[[toc]]
=Email= 
Any cite requests should go to [[mailto:mpharks@gmail.com|mpharks@gmail.com]]
=Testimonials= 
The wiki war just got an atom bomb dropped on it.
Jeffery Ding, top speaker at the Michigan 7 Week Senior Intra-lab Tournament, Michigan Camp Tournament, and less importantly the Glenbrooks, and winner of the Michigan Tournament had this to say:
<span class="kn">Jeffery: </span> yeah you're reaction time is 10^345.4 faster than Zach Rosenthal's and David Herman's

=Aff= 
==James Webb Space Telescope 1AC (Wake)== 
===Plan Text=== 
**The United States Congress should provide the National Aeronautics and Space Association with all necessary funds to launch and operate the James Webb Space Telescope.**

===Science Leadership Advantage 1AC=== 
Contention 1 is Science Leadership
Two internal links
First, the Webbscope is on the chopping block in Congress- cutting it sends the next generation of scientists to other countries
Bullock 9/6 (James, professor of physics and astronomy at UC Irvine and director of the Southern California Center for Galaxy Evolution, “Reaching for the stars”, http://www.bellinghamherald.com/2011/09/06/2171807/reaching-for-the-stars.html, MH)
Walk through the halls …edge of the universe itself.

Second, funding the webbscope brings astronomy focus back stateside
Illingworth 1/21– Ph.D., Australian National University, chairs a relatively new committee, the Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee, that offers advice to Congress and NSF, NASA and DOE on the implementation of the science program developed by the astronomy science community through studies carried out by the National Academy of Sciences [January 21, 2011, Garth Illingworth, letter to Dr. John P. Holdren, http://www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf]
The James Webb Space Telescope … mission from the perspective of the JSTAC.

And science leadership is key to credibility and superior military technology
Coletta 9 – Duke University , Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]
To discover sustainable … researchers to build epistemic communities.

Credibility is key to alliances and global power projection.
Armitage and Nye 7 (Richard L., Deputy Secretary of State from 2001 to 2005 and Joseph S., former assistant secretary of defense, teaches political science at Harvard, they co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ Commission on Smart Power, The Tennessean, “Time for Smart Power”, tennessean.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20071216/NEWS08/712160370/1025/NEWS)
The world is dissatisfied with … We call this smart power.

Heg solves global nuclear war- decline causes transition wars
Khalilzad 2/8 (ZALMAY KHALILZAD FEBRUARY 8, 2011 4:00 A.M. The Economy and National Security — Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992.
We face this domestic challenge while … Chinese hegemony and aggression.

Independently, strong alliances make nuclear war impossible.
Ross 99 - Douglas Ross, Professor of Political Science – Simon Fraser University, Winter 1998/1999, International Journal, Vol. 54, No. 1, “Canada’s Functional Isolationism And The Future Of Weapons Of Mass Destruction”, Lexis
Thus, an easily accessible tax base has long … warfare involving nuclear or other WMD.

===NASA Revitalization Advantage 1AC=== 
Contention 2 is NASA Budget
Current cost overruns make it impossible for the webbscope to get off the ground, but currently NASA will create internal budget tradeoffs that cause a cascade effect that guts the entirety of NASA’s budget. Congressional funding solves.
Plait 8/23 (Phil, PhD in Astronomy from University of Virginia, 8/23/11, “Hubble’s successor: doomed or saved?”, http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/badastronomy/2011/08/23/hubbles-successor-doomed-or-saved/, MH)
The James Webb Space Telescope …the Universe, is well worth it.

And the webbscope is the “Hurricane Katrina” of NASA’s budget- NASA cannot function while it’s on the budget docket
Kelly, 6/6 – has spent eight years covering the space industry for FLORIDA TODAY [June 6, 2011, John Kelly, wtsp.com, “NASA's James Webb Space Telescope billions over budget, 7 years late,” http://www.wtsp.com/news/article/195686/250/Telescope-debacle-devours-NASA-funds]
Budgeting woes Auditors who …funding for any major new projects."

NASA budget is key to dealing with solar flare outbursts- current measures are ineffective and now is key
Pachal 8/10 (Peter, PCMag's News Director- has been covering consumer technology in print and online for more than a decade, holds degrees in journalism and engineering, 8/10/11, “How NASA Is Preparing for the Next Solar Flare”, http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2390826,00.asp, MH)
A huge solar flare erupted from the …connection compeletely. And we need to.”

Solar flares would cause massively devastating effects on the earth
Hough 10 (Andrew, General news reporter for the UK Daily Telegraph, 6/14/10, “Nasa warns solar flares from 'huge space storm' will cause devastation”, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/7819201/Nasa-warns-solar-flares-from-huge-space-storm-will-cause-devastation.html, MH)
National power grids could …, uses dozens of satellites to study the threat.

Experts are worried- it’s a probable extinction level event
Thomas 11 (Brian, PhD at the University of Kansas in physics, 2011, “ASTROPHYSICS AND EXTINCTIONS: NEW RATE ESTIMATES FOR POTENTIALLY LETHAL IONIZING RADIATION EVENTS”, http://gsa.confex.com/gsa/2011AM/finalprogram/abstract_194643.htm, MH)
It has been recognized for … bursts considered in most past work.

Independently, the webbscope is key to NASA’s discovery of exoplanets
Pachal, 7/8 – PCMag's News Director and has been covering consumer technology in print and online for more than a decade, holds degrees in journalism and engineering [July 8, 2011, Peter Pachal, PCMag, “What We Could Lose if the James Webb Telescope Is Killed,” http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2388293,00.asp]

NASA's James Webb telescope…The discovery space is huge for this observatory."


And that sparks a new era of space colonization.
Harrold, 08 – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]
With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's … "Even the Vatican's astronomer has said it's okay to look."

Every delay in space colonization risks a hundred trillion lives per second
Bostrum, 02 – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University [Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]

As I write these words, suns are illuminating … postponement of colonization of our supercluster.[6]

And space colonization is a moral obligation
Stephens 3 [Rex, Quantum Theorist, The Preparation, http://www.thepreparation.net/Chap1.html]
There is only one solution. Humans must … of doing such a dark deed."

===Solvency 1AC=== 
Now is the time- maintaining current budgets will cause the scope to languish eternally
Smith 4/27 [Marcia Smith is President of the Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC, which specializes in news, information and analysis of civil, military and commercial space programs and other technology areas. “James Webb Space Telescope Needs More Money to Meet New 2018 Launch Date,” April 27, 2011, http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1539:james-webb-space-telescope-needs-more-money-to-meet-new-2018-launch-date&catid=67:news&Itemid=27]

The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) …the "Casani report," after its chair, John Casani).

===Generics are Frowned Upon 1AC=== 
Contention 4 is generics are frowned upon

Status quo solves space debris
IBT 9/5 (International Business Times, 2011, “Space Junk Reaching 'Tipping Point' Threatens Space Missions”, http://newyork.ibtimes.com/articles/208703/20110905/space-junk-debris-nasa-nrc.htm, MH)
Space tethers, or long and …. large enough to potentially cause damage.

Space launches don’t disrupt the ozone
NASA 8 NASA, 2-24-2008, Federal Government agency dedicated to space policy, “Space Shuttle and International Space Station,” NASA Kennedy Space Center Frequently Asked Questions, http://www.nasa.gov/centers/kennedy/about/information/shuttle_faq.html
Q. Is it true that launching the …., its global impact would be inconsequential.
And political capital isn’t real
Beckmann 1/20– Associate Professor, Political Science at the School of Social Sciences at UC Irvine, PhD from the University of Michigan – AND – Vimal Kumar, Ph.D candidate at UC Irvine (Matthew N., 20 January 2011, Journal of Theoretical Politics, vol. 23 no. 1, sites.google.com/site/vimalk/PracticingPresidentialPowerBeckmannV.pdf)
For political scientists, however, … much to improve his success. (1990, 13).

No one will successfully fill in for the U.S. – that makes a power vacuum and escalation inevitable
Brzezinski, 5 - National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy @ Johns Hopkins University
(Zbigniew "The Choice")

History is a record of change… American democracy itself, or from America's global misuse of its own power.
==James Webb Space Telescope (Georgetown)== 
===Science Leadership=== 
Just swapped out the K-zad card for this

Hegemony deters conflicts- collapse causes transition wars- theory and empirics prove
Zhang* and Shi 11. (Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/
Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will … inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.
===Science v. Religion=== 
Contention two is one giant leap

The James Webb Space Telescope is critical to a scientific revolution- multiple internal links

First is Dark Energy
Hammel and Rieke, 10 – world renowned astronomer and the Executive Vice President of The Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy, Ph.D. in physics and astronomy AND professor at University of Arizona [September 1, 2010, H. B. Hammel, G. Rieke, and the James Webb Space Telescope Science Working Group, “Scientific Role of the James Webb Space Telescope in ‘New Worlds, New Horizons,’” http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2010/webb_in%20NWNH.pdf]
Physics of the Universe “We can .. large-scale transformative scientific facility.

Dark energy confirms the big bang theory- ends the debate over creation
Wilford 94 – award-winning journalist for The New York Times, writes science journalism (11/29/1994, John, “Astronomy Crisis Deepens As the Hubble Telescope Sees No Missing Mass”, NYT, http://www.nytimes.com/1994/11/29/science/astronomy-crisis-deepens-as-the-hubble-telescope-sees-no-missing-mass.html?pagewanted=all&src=pm) MGM
This line of investigation could … time or mass for such a radical transformation.

Second internal link is necessity- the telescope is critical to a quantum leap in astrophysics
Hammel and Rieke, 10 – world renowned astronomer and the Executive Vice President of The Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy, Ph.D. in physics and astronomy AND professor at University of Arizona [September 1, 2010, H. B. Hammel, G. Rieke, and the James Webb Space Telescope Science Working Group, “Scientific Role of the James Webb Space Telescope in ‘New Worlds, New Horizons,’” http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2010/webb_in%20NWNH.pdf]

On 13 August 2010, the Space Studies Board … coverage of Webb and ALMA (NWNH 7-15).

Independently, that spurs the next generation of scientists
Griest 3/15 – Chair, Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee [March 15, 2011, Kim, “Report of the Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee,” http://www.nsf.gov/mps/ast/aaac/reports/annual/aaac_2011_report.pdf]
7. Investment in Astronomy as a National Priority … the scientific return of past investment, and to sustain the national commitment to discovery and innovation. Investment in advanced research is key to building America’s future.

Fourth is revitalizing research and American universities
Wood 2/1 – president of the National Association of Scholars [2/1/11, Peter Wood, “Could Science Leave the University?” http://chronicle.com/blogs/innovations/could-science-leave-the-university/28525, SM]

The university needs science, but how much does … altogether at least in the United States.

Fifth is the religion versus science debate- the Webbscope can be the deathknell
Todd 8/24(Hudson, degree in financial economics and psychology from Vanderbilt, 8/24/11, “In Defense of Telescopes Everywhere”, http://www.insidevandy.com/drupal/node/17518, MH)
A former New Scientist editor put it succinctly: “…, and that we are unbelievably lucky to experience life.

Religion and science are zero-sum. Life as we know it will end without rejection of religion culminates in extinction
Harris 6 (Sam, PhD in neuroscience from UCLA, philosophy degree from Stanford University, co-founder and CEO of Project Reason, and prolific author 2006 (“Science Must Destroy Religion,” The Huffington Post, January 2nd, Available Online at http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sam-harris/science-must-destroy-reli_b_13153.html, Accessed 02-08-2007] **Gender modified
Most people believe that the Creator … and most dangerous fractures in our world.

Even if we don’t win extinction, every major lasting conflict has its roots in religion- the systemic deaths that stem from this are still worth averting
Harris, 4 (Sam, PhD in neuroscience from UCLA, philosophy degree from Stanford University, co-founder and CEO of Project Reason, and prolific author, The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason, 25-26)
Our world is fast succumbing … a recipe for the fall of civilization.
===Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should fully fund and launch the James Webb Space Telescope.

===Solvency=== 
Contention three is solvency
Fresh funding is key- waiting will waste money and destroy the project
Clark, 7/14/11 – a senior at the University of Texas at Austin majoring in marketing and journalism, serves as the FASTRAC public relations director and Webmaster, covers the space industry for Spaceflightnow.com, a leading online source for space news [July 14, 2011, Stephen Clark, Spaceflight Now, “NASA: Extra money needed to launch JWST this decade,” http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1107/14jwst/]
One week after a House subcommittee … yet because it's the greatest thing since sliced bread."

The Senate budget doesn’t mean a thing- budget hawks are pecking out funding
Moskowitz 9/21 (Clara, space.com senior writer, 2011, “Controversy over Hubble telescope successor rages on”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44611860/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.TnqdBuw_yuI, MH)
James Webb is an infrared …and support for science in general.

This debate should be about science- practicing now trains future citizens to be able to answer dangerous pseudoscience in the future
Kitcher, 1998 (Philip, professor of philosophy at the University of California at San Diego and former editor of the journal Philosophy of Science, “A Plea for Science Studies”, A House Built on Sand: Exposing Postmodernist Myths about Science, edited by Noretta Koertge, p. 46)
Suppose that you are … "science for human use."52

Put away the process counterplans- theory informs process
FEAVER 2001 (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 172-173)
The policy-theory gap, then, is … richer the contribution to policy.13

And view science skeptics with skepticism- they know little or nothing about science- Sokal’s hoax proves
Pigliucci 10 chair of the Department of Philosophy at CUNY-Lehman College, PhDs in botany and philosophy of science, doctorate in genetics (Massimo, 5/10/2010, “Chapter 11: The Science Wars II: Do We Trust Science Too Little?”, Nonsense on Stilts: How to Tell Science from Bunk, p.254-5) MH
The now classic way to introduce the … point, just as they helped Sokal.
==James Webb Space Telescope 1AC (Bronx)== 
===Science Leadership=== 
Added these two cards
Unipolarity creates structural disincentives for war—theoretical and empirical evidence.
Wohlforth 9 — William C. Wohlforth, Daniel Webster Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, holds an M.Phil. and Ph.D. in Political Science from Yale University, 2009 (“Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project MUSE, p. 29-31)
The upshot is a near scholarly consensus … consistent with the theory’s expectations.

Structural problems exist, but America still remains the leader. This evidence answers all of their warrants.
Nye 10/11 (Joseph, former US assistant secretary of defence/professor at Harvard, 2011, “Decline and fall of the US decline and fall”, http://english.aljazeera.net/indepth/opinion/2011/10/2011108122558980585.html, MH)
China's GDP will almost … US as the world's leading power.

===Space Colonization=== 
Contention two is Space Exploration
Independently, the webbscope is key to NASA’s discovery of exoplanets
Pachal, 7/8 – PCMag's News Director and has been covering consumer technology in print and online for more than a decade, holds degrees in journalism and engineering [July 8, 2011, Peter Pachal, PCMag, “What We Could Lose if the James Webb Telescope Is Killed,” http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2388293,00.asp]

NASA's James Webb telescope, the …. "The discovery space is huge for this observatory."

And that sparks a new era of space colonization. Ignore advantage counterplans- we need to rethink the way we look at colonization.
Harrold, 08 – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]
With less fanfare than H.G. … astronomer has said it's okay to look."

Although we’ve already found some exoplanets, webb is key to the detailed view necessary
Coulter, 10 [Dauna Coulter is a Science Writer at Schafer Corporation for NASA, Senior Technical Writer at ADTRAN Senior Technical Writer at Lockheed Martin Technical Editor/Writer at Teledyne Brown Engineering. “Alien Planet Safari”, January 14th, 2010, http://nasascience.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/14jan_planetsafari/ ]
The premiere observatory of the next … what wonders Webb's hunt will turn up."


Every delay in space colonization risks a hundred trillion lives per second
Bostrum, 02 – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University [Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]
As I write these words, suns are illuminating … postponement of colonization of our supercluster.[6]

Extinction is inevitable- only by getting off the rock can we have a hope of survival
Hawking 1 [Stephen, is a British theoretical physicist. Hawking is the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, and a Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, Gene Ray has nothing on this Smartest Human, October 16, 2001, http://www.nutri.com/space/]
"The human race is likely … befall life on a single planet."

Faster-than-light space travel makes rapid space colonization feasible and likely—it is consistent with the laws of physics
Crawford, Department of Physics & Astronomy, University College London, 1995 (I.A., “Some Thoughts on the Implications of Faster-Than-Light Interstellar Space Travel,” March 8, Q.J.R. Astr. Soc. 36, p. 205-218)
There are reasons for believing … FTL travel concepts which may be found in the literature.

There are biological hurdles to colonization, but the status quo solves them
CNN 10/10 (2011, “Space on Earth: Testing extraterrestrial habitats”, http://lightyears.blogs.cnn.com/2011/10/10/space-on-earth-testing-extraterrestrial-habitats/, MH)
Before humanity can leave … and varying the presence or absence of rovers.

And adaptation solves all biological hurdles
White 87 [Frank White, magna cum laude @ Harvard, attended Oxford University on a Rhodes Scholarship, 1987, The Overview Effect, p. 172-173]
Beyond these considerations, of course, …it will help humans learn to interact with a different but

Don’t mistake colonization for something violent- we mean the term in a biological sense
Engdahl 94, degree from the University of California at Santa Barbara, graduate studies at Portland State University, 1994 (Sylvia, “Space and Human Survival, Part I,”
http://www.sylviaengdahl.com/space/survival.htm)
Colonies or Settlements? People … “space colonies” prevailing on the Web.
==James Webb Aff- Michigan== 
===Heg=== 
Added this card after the heg impact.
Independently, because of the international nature of the plan, abandoning commitment tanks alliances
Knacke 10/21 (Roger, professor of physics and astronomy emeritus at Penn State Behrend, 2011, “Knacke: Weber Space Telescope crucial to American science”, http://www.goerie.com/article/20111021/OPINION08/310219994/Knacke%3A-Weber-Space-Telescope-crucial-to-American-science, MH)
Moreover, it's is an international … to partner in future joint projects.

===Space Colonization=== 
Added this card after the Harold evidence
Put away the advantage counterplans—no other telescope can do what Webb does
Mullen 10/24 (Leslie, staff writer for Astrobiology Magazine, interviewing Matt Mountain- director of the Space Telescope Science Institute and John Grunsfield- former NASA astronaut and STScI deputy director, 2011, “The James Webb Telescope Will See Earth-Like Worlds”, http://www.astrobio.net/interview/4296/the-james-webb-telescope-will-see-earth-like-worlds, MH)
JG: But here’s the key, … are orbiting nearby stars.

===Solvency=== 
Added these two cards
Fresh timely funding is key. The House won’t fund without certainty from NASA. There’s no status quo scenario that happens because of funding competitions with the SLS.
Vastag 10/26 (Brian, M.S. in science and technology journalism from Texas A&M, 2011, “Budget fight rages over James Webb Space Telescope”,http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/budget-fight-rages-over-james-webb-space-telescope/2011/10/13/gIQALjYLKM_story_1.html, MH)
Fed up with Webb’s escalating costs, Wolf zeroed …. They’ve cast their lot with a huge, flagship mission.

Even if they win that the plan is happening now, we advocate a grapple point that’s key to solvency
Kaplan 10/17 (Michael, former NASA executive and spent 10 years at the Naval Center for Space Technology at the US Naval Research Laboratory, 2011, “Linking JWST and human spaceflight”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1951/1&ct=ga&cad=CAEQAhgBIAAoATAgOCBAuJXy9ARIAVAAWABiBWVuLVVT&cd=bhtYKiocJrU&usg=AFQjCNGlK2THGjrVxKJxDCWeMyB37feWqQ, MH)
If it’s not possible to build a facility to … that could also provide human space flight a shot in the arm when it’s most needed?

==Mars Colonization Aff (Glenbrooks)== 
===Impact Calculus Advantage=== 
Contention one is Impact Calculus
First, extinction is inevitable
A. Coronal mass ejections and gamma ray bursts
Thomas October 2011 (Brian, PhD at the University of Kansas in physics, 2011, “ASTROPHYSICS AND EXTINCTIONS: NEW RATE ESTIMATES FOR POTENTIALLY LETHAL IONIZING RADIATION EVENTS”, http://gsa.confex.com/gsa/2011AM/finalprogram/abstract_194643.htm, MH)
It has been recognized for … long bursts considered in most past work.

B. is everything else—we need to get off the rock to avert them
Popular Science 3/16 (Ben Austen, 2011, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=1, MH)
Earth won’t always be fit for occupation. We … will be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”

Second, policymakers should use utilitarianism
a. Conflicting moral claims
Mulholland, prof. of philosophy at the University of Newfoundland, 1986 (Leslie, Journal of Philosophy, June, p. 328)
For many, the persuasiveness of utilitarianism as … the morality of such cases.

b. Uncertainty
Goodin, fellow in philosophy at Australian National Defense University, 1990 (Robert, “The Utilitarian Response”, p. 141-2)
My larger argument turns …– to chose general rules or conduct.

c. It’s calculative, the best way of making decisions—we have an obligation to everyone
Gauthier 7 (David, 1 Department of Political Science, Illinois Wesleyan University, “Levinas and the Politics of Hospitality,” HISTORY OF POLITICAL THOUGHT. Vol. XXVIII. No. 1. Spring 2007)
In his two major works, Totality and … second aspect of the Levinasian human fraternity: monotheism.

d. You have an innate bias to prefer smaller impacts, but you should resist that urge.
YUDKOWSKY 2006 (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, August 31)
Three groups of subjects considered … orders of magnitude to detect the difference experimentally.

The focus on short-term impacts is bad—failure to think on a longer time scale invites human extinction
VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)
There is an even more subtle reason why …, and that this question is worth thinking about.

e. preparing for the worst means preserving humanity, these extinction scenarios are key to motivating the public
Engdahl 6 (Sylvia, degree from the University of California at Santa Barbara, graduate studies at Portland State University, October 2006, “Achieving Human Commitment to Space Colonization: Is Fear the Answer?”, http://lifeboat.com/ex/fear.and.space, MH)
Recently, however, I have come to believe that … means of furthering our common humanity."

Next, death is bad: it is painful and deprives humans of what gives life meaning
Moore and Williamson 3 (Calvin Conzelus- professor of sociology, John B. Cleveland State university, and professor of sociology, Boston College, 2003 Handbook of death & dying, Volume 1 By Clifton D. Bryant pg 3)
Is the fear of death universal? Anthropologist … most natural reactions to encounters with death (Charmaz 1980).

Finally, Great power war is obsolete – cooperation is more likely than competition
Deudney, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, and Ikenberry, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, 9
(Daniel, John, Jan/Feb, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” proquest, accessed 6-15-11, CMM)
This bleak outlook is based on an … of international integration and cooperation.

===M.A.R.S. Mars Advantage=== 
Contention two is M.A.R.S. MARS
A. Every delay in space colonization risks a hundred trillion lives per second
Bostrum, 02 – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University [Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]
As I write these words, suns are …postponement of colonization of our supercluster.[6]

B. Stephen Hawking demands it so—it’s the only mathematical way out
Hawking 1 [Stephen, is a British theoretical physicist. Hawking is the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, and a Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, Gene Ray has nothing on this Smartest Human, October 16, 2001, http://www.nutri.com/space/]
"The human race is likely to … befall life on a single planet."

Thus we present the plan: The United States federal government should send a direct staffed mission to Mars within ten years for the purpose of establishing a space colony.

It’s feasible it takes a month—Ion chemical rockets or asteroid hitchhiking
Popular Science 3/16 (Ben Austen, 2011, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=1, MH)
Once we get beyond low Earth orbit… its destination in six to 10 months.

Mars colonization is possible – the resources are there and the environment is suitable
Hender 10 – University of Adelaide, School of Mechanical Engineering (Matthew “Colonization: a permanent habitat for the colonization of Mars” http://digital.library.adelaide.edu.au/dspace/handle/2440/61315
It has been demonstrated, through … nutrients necessary for the production of food.

Extra fuel does not even need to be carried- can be generated on Mars
Zubrin 6/28 – president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.4-5)
Once settled on the rust-colored soils …hauled from Earth eigh¬teen times over.

Ignore their biology arguments
a. There’s water
IBTN 11 (International Business Times News, July 2, “NASA: New evidence suggesting water on Mars found”, lexis)
Jul. 2, 2011 (International Business Times News delivered by Newstex) --
New findings are offering prospect … Gusev in 2010, scientists said.

b. Radiation is not a problem
Zubrin 6/28/2011 – president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.132-133)
By the way, contrary to the … for a piloted Mars mission.

c. We can reverse anti-gravitational effects,
Zubrin 11 – NPR interview with Zubrin (July 1, “Is Settling Mars Inevitable, Or An Impossibility?” http://www.npr.org/2011/07/01/137555244/is-settling-mars-inevitable-or-an-impossibility )
FLATOW: What about the trip? It's going to … been severe and should be avoided.

d. We can grow food
Zubrin 11 – NPR interview with Zubrin (July 1, “Is Settling Mars Inevitable, Or An Impossibility?” http://www.npr.org/2011/07/01/137555244/is-settling-mars-inevitable-or-an-impossibility )
FLATOW: And once you got there, would … and Alaska, and you can grow crops there.

e. Disease doesn’t matter
Netea et al. 10—all 4 have PhD’s in medicine or biology (Mihai G. Netea, Ph.D.1,2, Frank L. van de Veerdonk, Ph.D.1,2, Marc Strous, Ph.D.2,3, and Jos W.M. van der Meer, Ph.D., Journal of Cosmology, 2010, Vol 12, 3846-3854. JournalofCosmology.com, October-November, 2010, Infection Risk of a Human Mission to Mars, http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars129.html)
Therefore, the most likely life form … to a second 'vulnerable' host.

The Martian frontier is critical to colonize deep space—diffuse network of colonies guarantee preservation
Zubrin 6/28/2011 – president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, Epilogue)
The universe is vast. Its resources, if we … of the old frontier. But Mars will not wait forever.

Status quo missions fail
Zubrin 11—aerospace engineer, Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (Robert, 22 May 2011, Debate Between Zubrin and Simberg, “The Great PJ Media Space Debate,” http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/the-great-pj-media-space-debate/)
If we want to again have a human … humans to Mars in 2020 than we are today.

Zuberin is more than qualified, prefer his analysis on everything
Space Fellowship 6/28/2011 (The International Space Fellowship news agency, “This Week on The Space Show”, http://spacefellowship.com/news/art26063/this-week-on-the-space-show.html)
Dr. Robert Zubrin is a noted author … On The Red Planet,” is a must read.

===Generics are Frowned Upon=== 
First NASA is key
Seedhouse 2009 (Erik, aerospace scientist and manned spaceflight consultant, Martian Outpost, p.10)
The cautious approach of NASA … required for a manned mission to Mars.

Second, the private sector won’t work
CHOI 2011 (Charles Q., writer at Atstrobiology magazine, Space Daily, “Mars, Brought to you by corporate Sponsors”, February 17, lexis)
Levine noted the idea of … as a byproduct of the arms race."

And Mars is the most popular destination for the public—we can get there on current human spaceflight budgets
Thompson 2011—PhD, Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates, former professor at Georgetown and Harvard (Loren B, 25 April 2011, http://www.marssociety.org/home/press/announcements/newstudyhumanspaceflight-marsisthedestinationthatmatters)
There is only one way that the … restore the sense of purpose we as a people have lost.

No other country can do this. Status quo plans are frazzled. 3-5 Billion more speeds up the process.
KAPLAN 10 – Exec Editor of PC Magazine (Jeremy A., “NASA Scientist Publishes 'Colonizing the Red Planet,' a How-To Guide”, edited for gendered language, http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/30/nasa-scientist-publishes-colonizing-red-planet-guide/#ixzz1QUXVmFVN)
A manned [staffed] mission to … we could do it in half the time."
==Ohio Valley Aff- Mars== 
Just a few minor changes. We took out the Yudkowski evidence from the D-Calc flow and replaced it with
Nuclear war doesn't lead to extinction- their science is based on western chauvinism
Martin, 84 [Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA 5-16-84 http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html]

And on the MARS flow we took out the old Hawking 2 card and put in
Extinction within the next hundred years, our only chance is to get off the rock— if Hawking is terrified, you should be too
Szklarski 11/19 (Cassandra, staff writer for Canadian Press, 2011, “Human survival depends on space exploration, says Stephen Hawking”, http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/canada/breakingnews/human-survival-depends-on-space-exploration-says-stephen-hawking-134135238.html, MH)

==Mars Aff Blake/MBA== 
Restructured a little bit- removed the Mulholland card, moved the "death bad" card to the very end.
Took out the Martin 82 evidence and replaced it with:
Nuclear war doesn’t lead to extinction
a. No nuclear winter
Seitz, 06 – former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html)
All that remains of Sagan's Big Chill are …dels feature so much smoke so far aloft for so long?

b. The media—it’s all hype
Martin, 82 (Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html)
(k) Media. The media tend … form and content of the media.

c. Logistics—not enough of the warheads will explode
Martin, 82 (Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Current Affairs Bulletin, December, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82cab/index.html)
What fraction of the 11,… suddenly or builds up gradually.[48]

Contention two added these cards:

The planet is more hospitable than earth
Taylor 12/12 (Chris, graduate of Merton College, Oxford and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, 2011, “Mars Has More Room for Life Than Earth [STUDY]”, http://mashable.com/2011/12/12/mars-more-life-earth/, MH)
Fans of epic Mars-based sci-fi novels, from Edgar Rice Burroughs to Kim Stanley Robinson, got some more Red Planet-based reading material to fire their imaginations Monday. A comprehensive survey from … creates the necessary air pressure.

Ignore their biology arguments
Liquid water was just discovered
Bodzash 12/12 (Dennis, newsletter editor for Northeast Ohio's Black River Astronomical Society, 2011, “The strongest evidence yet for water on Mars”, http://www.examiner.com/space-news-in-national/the-strongest-evidence-yet-for-water-on-mars, MH)
Right now, the Mars rover … Mars question of all.

No turns the case arguments—we’ll defend durable fiat, and even if cuts happen Mars becomes a sacred cow
Politico, “Shooting for the moon amid cuts,” 4/20/2011, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/53495.html
For all the rhetoric … over five months.

==A2: Security K (This card is really good)== 
Even if our scenarios are constructed, they’re key to space colonization
Engdahl 6 (Sylvia, degree from the University of California at Santa Barbara, graduate studies at Portland State University, October 2006, “Achieving Human Commitment to Space Colonization: Is Fear the Answer?”, http://lifeboat.com/ex/fear.and.space, MH)
Recently, however, I have come to believe that people are never going to support a sufficient space effort for positive reasons, or even to prevent a distant prospect of extinction. We wouldn't have gotten … of furthering our common humanity."

==A2: Heg Unsustainable== 
We’re not beyond the point of no return- there are no challengers
National Defense 8/17 (8/17/11, “Despite Political Blunders, U.S. Still the 'Go-To' Nation”, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=495, MH)
The world is watching closely as the …It’s recovering from those mistakes.”

Heg is sustainable – US decline is exaggerated, rising powers will fail and no counterbalancing
O’Hanlon, senior fellow and director of research for foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, 8-11-11
(Michael, “The U.S. still has a promising future,” http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/commentary/la-oe-ohanlon-america-20110811,0,1890319.story, accessed 8-14-11, CMM)
Amid all the talk of gloom and …; not bad for 5% of the world's population.
==A2: Moon CP== 
2. Mars is a better choice
Zubrin 96 (Robert, President of the Mars Society, former Chairman of the National Space Society, August 1996, “The Case for Colonizing Mars”, from Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.html, MH)
In contrast to the Moon, Mars is … specially bred crops outside the domes.

4. Moon dust takes out solvency
David 6 – (Leonard, Research Associate for Secure World Foundation, 11/7/06, “Lunar explorers face moon dust dilemma”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/15607792/, MH)
GOLDEN, Colo. — The Moon is dusty, grimy, and potentially … that's going to be dangerous on the Moon."

Colonizing the moon isn’t a pre-requisite to the plan
Boswell 2004 (David, speaker at the 1991 International Space Development Conference, “Choosing our destination”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/91/1)
A major benefit that is often cited … one destination over the other.
==2AC- Politics== 
3. Fights over the Webb will last for months
Kendrew, 7/11/11 – an engineer at the Max Planck Institute for Astronomy in Heidelberg, Germany, where she is a member of the Adaptive Optics Lab and the Planet and Star Formation Group [July 11, 2011, Sarah Kendrew, “To scrap the James Webb Space Telescope would be short-sighted,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/blog/2011/jul/11/james-webb-space-telescope]

Last Thursday, the subcommittee in the ...battle for the JWST's survival lies ahead.

4. The public loves the James Webb
Lou Friedman January 10, 2011 recently stepped down after 30 years as Executive Director of The Planetary Society. He continues as Director of the Society's LightSail Program and remains involved in space programs and policy. Before co-founding the Society with Carl Sagan and Bruce Murray, Lou was a Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at JPL. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1755/1

As always (or, at least, as usual) ..when determining NASA’s new budget.

5. Public perception shapes the agenda
Cook 9 (Charlie, 23 June 2009, Obama Putting His Approval Numbers To Work, http://www.nationaljournal.com/njonline/ot_20090623_2212.php)
But on the Gallup tracking ... help accomplish tough tasks.

6. Positive perception gets supporters on board
Green, professor of political science at Hofstra University, 10
(David Michael, 6-11-10, “The Do-Nothing 44th President,” http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html, accessed 1-26-11, CMM)
Moreover, there is a ... this is precisely what they did.

7. Disad is not an opportunity cost to the plan—it’s irrational to base the passage of on an unrelated program like the plan. Non-intrinsic disads destroy opportunity cost which teaches us a skewed way of making decision and leads to policy paralysis.
==Holocaust Trivialization- 1AR v John's Creek, Wake Rd 3== 
Vote neg- they trivialized the holocaust, made a coherent debate impossible, increased the possibility that we actually will mirror Weimar, and desensitizes citizens so that these comparisons won’t work when atrocities actually occur.
Davis Hanson 5 Martin and Illie Anderson Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution (Victor, 6/28/05, “Hitler, Hitler, Everywhere”, http://www.victorhanson.com/articles/hanson062805.html) MH

Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) was not alone when he recently compared American behavior at Guantanamo Bay to that of "Nazis, Soviets in their gulags, or some mad regime - Pol Pot or others - that had no concern for human beings." Tarring Bush and co. with Hitlerian imagery has become a debased parlor game. Politicians and other public figures toss about these charged references, expecting to create a buzz and assuming that their audience is as uninformed as they are. Rep. Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.) cited the Holocaust to blast American policy in Iraq: "This is just as bad as the 6 million Jews being killed." In his upside-down world, the mass murderer is the moral equivalent of those who stop him. Before Rangel, Sen. Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.) evoked Nazi Germany to warn about the Bush administration. An official of the Red Cross lectured that American guards at Guantanamo were "no better than and no different than the Nazi concentration camp guards." Left unsaid was the logical sick corollary: If the perpetrators of the Holocaust were really no worse than American guards at Guantanamo, then, as is the case at Guantanamo where not one death has been reported, did no one really perish at Belsen or Treblinka, either? And these people aren't the only ones to stoop to play this game. There's also been NAACP Chairman Julian Bond ("The American flag and the Confederate swastika"), former Ohio Sen. John Glenn ("It's the old Hitler business"), Garrison Keillor ("Brownshirts in pinstripes"), Linda Ronstadt ("A new bunch of Hitlers") and Al Gore ("Digital brownshirts"). Why suddenly is Hitler popping up everywhere when the Nazis have absolutely no relation with a democratic United States or a humane military? Time Magazine recently reported that when the suspected 20th Sept. 11 hijacker, Mohammed al-Qahtani, was in distress, he was given a CAT scan and put on a heart monitor, while a radiologist was flown to Cuba for consultation. In contrast, is Sen. Durbin aware that the Nazis laid railroad tracks to the very gates of Auschwitz to facilitate its engine of mass death, an industry that would take over 6 million people? Or can he grasp the idea of 25 million perishing in the gulag - the population of Durbin's home state of Illinois being exterminated twice over? Note the escalating frustration behind these outbursts. Although an occasional conservative like Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.) has stooped to Hitlerian slander, most of the offenders, such as Michael Moore (comparing the Patriot Act to "Mein Kampf") or George Soros (saying Bush reminded him of "the Germans"), are on the left, furious over their inability to affect the course of events. Since Sept. 11, we have had midterm and national elections, both referenda on the so-called war against terror. Those on the left have lost the majority of state legislatures, governorships, the House, the Senate, the presidency and perhaps the Supreme Court. If normal debate somehow didn't rile up the somnolent American people, why not try conjuring up the ghosts of Hitler or Stalin? There is also an asymmetry in these slurs. Few mention that there really are monsters and mass killers living among us - the North Koreans who have starved 1 million of their own, Saddam's reign of terror that may have killed as many, and, of course, the Islamicist murderers who behead, blow up and torture. "Mein Kampf" still is selling well in some Arab capitals, not in Washington or New York. So cowards such as officials of the Red Cross and Amnesty International, and, yes, American politicians, prefer to showboat the purported misdemeanors of those who are civilized and will listen to them, rather than to condemn the horrendous felonies of those who are barbaric and will not pay them heed. As a result, the bar is lowering. In today's climate, Alfred Knopf has already published a novel about killing the president. Charlie Brooker writing in the Guardian in London prayed for another Lee Harvey Oswald to take out George W. Bush. Comedians, New York plays and art exhibits also bandy about assassination. Each time a public official evokes Hitler to demonize the president, the American effort in Iraq or its conservative supporters, cheap rhetorical fantasy becomes only that much closer to a nightmarish reality where the unstable, here and abroad, act on the belief that America really is Hitler's Germany. We will all soon reap what the ignorant are now sowing. ©2005 Victor Davis Hanson
==A2: Spending== 
3. Science leadership is key to long term competitiveness – their short term spending DA will only shortchange our future
Elmegreen, 11 – President of the American Astronomical Society and is the Maria Mitchell Professor of Astronomy and Department Chair in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Vassar [March 11, 2011, Dr. Debra Elmegreen, “Testimony of Dr. Debra M. Elmegreen President of the American Astronomical Society Before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies On Astronomy and Astrophysics in the FY 2012 Budget,” http://blog.aas.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/AAS-Testimony-to-Congress.pdf]

We understand the need for ..will inherit depends upon the choices you make.

4. Flagship missions such as the JWST will spark more economic activity than cuts
Margon, 06 – associate director for science at the Space Telescope Science Institute [March 27, 2006, Bruce Margon, Aviation Week & Space Technology, “Small Is Beautiful, But Big Is Necessary,” Lexis]

I disagree. The case for …but inspires and challenges the American people.

5. Economy more resilient than predicted – has taken shocks and still growin'
The Business Insider 11 (Bob Eisenbeis, March 31, “This Market Is Showing Incredible Resilience In The Face Of Many Crises”, lexis)

No, not shock and awe as in how … can begin investing and hiring again.

==A2: Super Committee== 
Nonunique and no impact- Republicans won’t budge and they’ll reverse the cuts
Bernstein 10/3 (Jonathan, staff writer for Washington Post, 2011, “Why a supercommittee deficit deal is growing less and less likely”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/why-a-supercommittee-deficit-deal-is-growing-less-and-less-likely/2011/03/28/gIQA1pP4HL_blog.html, MH)
Could growing GOP optimism … in the 2012 elections are enormously high.

McCain solves the disad
Fung 10/13 (Brian, staff writer for Talking Points Memo, 10/13/11, “McCain Says He Might Just Ignore Super Committee Defense Cuts”, http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/10/mccain-id-work-against-the-supercommittee-to-protect-defense-spending.php, MH)
Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) says he's .. that can still be imposed."

The logic of your DA is 110% wrong. The super committee won’t affect Defense – 5 reasons and we post date.
AOL Defense, 10-15 (http://defense.aol.com/2011/10/15/five-reasons-the-congressional-super-committee-wont-matter/, WESTON)
The defense cuts triggered by "sequestration" … almost nobody in Washington supports them.

==Zombies (versus New Trier's Dada Argument, Rd 2 @ Ohio Valley)== 
Neoconservativism solves a zombie attack that causes extinction
Drezner 10 [Daniel W—professor of international politics at Tufts University's Fletcher School and a contributing editor to Foreign Policy, is author of the forthcoming Theories of International Politics and Zombies, July/August, “Night of the Living Wonks”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/21/night_of_the_living_wonks?page=0,3,]
The neoconservative policy response to …, unless it is dealt with quickly."

3 scenarios for zombie apocalypse:
a. Parasites
Wong 7 (David, Senior Editor @ Cracked.com, “ 5 Scientific Reasons a Zombie Apocalypse Could Actually Happen,” Oct 29, http://www.cracked.com/article_15643_5-scientific-reasons-zombie-apocalypse-could-actually-happen.html)
Parasites that turn victims into …. Even less than they do now, we mean.

b. Neurotoxins
Wong 7 (David, Senior Editor @ Cracked.com, “ 5 Scientific Reasons a Zombie Apocalypse Could Actually Happen,” Oct 29, http://www.cracked.com/article_15643_5-scientific-reasons-zombie-apocalypse-could-actually-happen.html)
There are certain kinds of poisons … aggressive or cannabalistic. Yet.

c. Viruses
Wong 7 (David, Senior Editor @ Cracked.com, “ 5 Scientific Reasons a Zombie Apocalypse Could Actually Happen,” Oct 29, http://www.cracked.com/article_15643_5-scientific-reasons-zombie-apocalypse-could-actually-happen.html, EMM)
In the movie, it was a virus …can be transmitted with a bite.


=Neg= 
==Inherency== 
===1NC Shell=== 
1. Interpretation- the aff has to be a substantial change from the status quo. This means that the case must have attitudinal and structural barriers.

Substantially means real at present time
Words and Phrases 1964 (40 W&P 759) (this edition of W&P is out of print; the page number no longer matches up to the current edition and I was unable to find the card in the new edition. However, this card is also available on google books, Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases, Volume 8, p. 7329)

2. Violation- {Insert ev}

3. Standards
Limits- without attitudinal and structural barriers, there can be a limitless amount of affirmatives that the negative could never be prepared to research.
Ground- the plan steals all disadvantage ground because it is happening in the status quo. This makes our disads nonunique and even destroys the case debate because authors do not write predictive case offense when the plan is already being implemented.
Education- since plan already is happening, we’re learning about irrelevant subjects and this aff is trading off with more important topic research.

4. The status quo solves the case, or enough to solve the advantages. Vote negative to continue this policy. We can also advocate a minor repair to simply go in the direction of the status quo. They don’t justify the resolution and there’s no reason to vote affirmative.

5. It’s a voting issue for stock issues, education, and fairness

===**Specific Ev**=== 
====SBSS==== 
SBSS now – postdates all your evidence
Air Force Space Comman, 3/14 (Air Force Space Command, 14 March 2011, “SBSS Satellite Reaches Critical Milestone,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123246465)
Recently, the Air Force transferred Satellite … achieving Initial Operational Capability.
====DSCOVR==== 
DSCOVR being funded now, along with other climate and solar flare monitoring tech- no attitudinal or structural barrier
Clark- their evidence- 2/21 (Stephen, writer for Spaceflight Now, 2011, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission”, http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/, MH)
The White House is requesting …global temperature and moisture profile measurements.



==Topicality== 
===Staffed=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
A. Interpretation - Exploration means to expand staffed missions into space
Logsdon, 9 – professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)

Exploration as a Compelling Rationale Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a government-funded program of human spaceflight is to take the lead in exploring the solar system beyond low Earth orbit.20 The MIT white paper provides an insightful definition of exploration: Exploration is a human activity, undertaken by certain cultures at certain times for particular reasons. It has components of national interest, scientific research, and technical innovation, but is defined by none of them. We define exploration as an expansion of the realm of human experience, bringing people into new places, situations, and environments, expanding and redefining what it means to be human. What is the role of Earth in human life? Is human life fundamentally tied to the earth, or could it survive without the planet? Human presence, and its attendant risk, turns a spaceflight into a story that is compelling to large numbers of people. Exploration also has a moral dimension because it is in effect a cultural conversation on the nature and meaning of human life. Exploration by this definition can only be accomplished by direct human presence and may be deemed worthy of the risk of human life.21 In the wake of the 2003 Columbia accident that took the lives of seven astronauts and the report of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board that criticized the absence of a compelling mission for human spaceflight as “a failure of national leadership,”22 the United States, in January 2004, adopted a new policy to guide its human spaceflight activities. The policy directed NASA to “implement a sustained and affordable human and robotic program to explore the solar system and beyond” and to “extend human presence across the solar system, starting with a human return to the Moon by the year 2020, in preparation for human exploration of Mars and other destinations.”23 This policy seems totally consistent with the definition of exploration provided in the MIT white paper. The issue is whether such a policy and its implementation, focusing on human exploration beyond Earth orbit, can provide an adequate and sustainable justification for a continuing program of government-sponsored spaceflight that will make contributions that will outweigh the costs and risks involved to the “primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”

So does development
Livingston 07 – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)

Eric Westling is a science writer, pundit on science, technology, and economics. He is the co-author of “The Space Elevator” with Dr. Brad Edwards . In addition, Mr. Westling is retired and is a former Army officer and helicopter pilot, civilian Airline Transport Pilot (ATP), former consultant to many small companies regarding engineering, computer, and business troubleshooting. His most recent papers are on Solar Power Satellites, Economics of the Space Elevator, Energy and time lag in the 21st century , and Eric’s axioms (a list of principles of science, technology and economics). Mr. Westling stats that “Space Development is the only long term answer to the, just starting, energy shortage; which will otherwise continue until we have an economic collapse.” He believes that no-one is doing space development . Instead, we have space technology, not development. NASA has no TRL 10 – therefore no plans to develop space . He defines space development as the rapid expansion of manned [staffed] commercial projects in space.


B. Violation – the affirmative doesn’t increase human missions in space

C. Voting issue –

1. Limits – they allow all robots, satellites, probes, and rovers. There are tons of subsets of these categories that the hardest working 2N couldn’t keep up with.

2. Negative Ground – random space telescopes are impossible to get disad links to- staffed missions have major controversy ground that both sides can take advantage of.

3. Precision- our evidence is from the most predictable source and has an intent to define. Any other source makes their interpretation arbitrary and unpredictable.

3. Competing interpretations is the best lens for evaluating debate- a. Judge intervention- I think they’re not reasonable but I’m not sure if you do. B. Doesn’t cause a race to the bottom- if we want to win we’ll find the best definition, not the most limiting one.
====A2: No Human Missions Now==== 
It’s a fifth of the budget
Matthews 9/5 (Mark, staff writer for Orlando Sentinel, 2011, “NASA's smaller programs could be at risk”, http://www.physorg.com/news/2011-09-nasa-smaller.html, MH)
NASA spends about one-fifth of its current budget - … technology research, education and overhead.

NASA just recently created an entire department devoted to human missions
Moskowitz 8/14 (Clara, Senior Writer for SPACE.com, 8/14/11, “NASA opens new office for deep space missions”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44136691/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.TlLhql0eqSo, MH)
To embark on its next chapter … the Exploration Systems Mission Directorate.

NASA announced that it still plans on using humans
Holland 7/1 (Sally, CNN Senior Producer, 7/1/11, “NASA Looks To 'Deep Space' After Last Shuttle Flight”, http://www.channel3000.com/technology/28423075/detail.html, MH)
NASA Administrator Charles Bolden … vehicles to deeper space probes

====Depth Over Breadth==== 
3. Empirically proven in the context of science to be preferable.
Schwartz et al 9 (Marc Schwartz- Professor Mind, Brain, Education @U Arlington, Philip Sadler & Gerhard Sonnert- Science Education Department @ Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Robert H Tai- Special Education Department @ U Virginia, 2009, “Depth versus breadth: How content coverage in high school science courses relates to later success in college science coursework”, Science Education, v.93, i.5, p. 824, MH)
The baseline model reveals … to support such an approach.
===T- Must Have Period=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
A. Interpretation: the plan text must have proper punctuation.

B. Violation: there’s no punctuation mark at the end of the plan text.

C. Standards
1. Not resolved- The plan could be a question or a statement. We’ll never know because they didn’t tell us. This makes them untopical because “Resolved” means “fixity of purpose”—Webster’s dictionary in 2001.

2. Proper grammar usage is key to communication
Allen, Editor and Director of The Chambers Dictionary 1993 (Robert, Does Grammar Matter?)
Grammar matters, then, because it is the accepted way of using language, whatever one’s exact interpretation of the term. Incorrect grammar hampers communication, which is the whole purpose of language. The grammar of standard English matters because it is a codification of the way using English that most people will find acceptable.

3. Policymaking training- if the goal of debate is to mimic policymaking then their presentation of a bill in Congress would be laughed at.

4. Limits- we only allow for plan texts that actually meet the grammatical standards that would be set by the English language and actual congressional legislation. Letting their plan text in allows for tons of artificial languages to be used in plan texts that we can’t be prepared to learn.

D. This also means they can’t solve because the people who would implement the plan wouldn’t know what to do with an open ended sentence.

E. Voter for fairness, education, and jurisdiction.
====Overview Card==== 
Punctuation can mean the difference between life and death
Scudder 9 B.A. in Political Philosophy from St. Lawrence University (Rebecca, 10/31/09, “Importance of Punctuation Marks in English Language”, http://www.brighthub.com/education/languages/articles/15961.aspx) MH
Before proceeding further, let us … This small story explains the importance of punctuation very well.

==Counterplans== 
===ESA CP=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
The CP solves – multiple warrants
EU 9 (“The EU and Space; Reaping the Benefits of Space Exploration and Technology” <
http://www.eurunion.org/News/eunewsletters/EUFocus/2009/EUFocus-Space-7-09.pdf>]
Forty years ago, the world ……to the Moon, to Mars, and beyond.

They can’t win any solvency deficits – the EU is surpassing US capabilities now
BARR ‘11( Bob ,July 13a former federal prosecutor and a former member of the United States House of Representatives He represented Georgia's 7th congressional district as a Republican, served on its National Committee, the Libertarian Party nominee for President of the United States in the 2008 election. “Us lost “Space Race” Long Ago” AJC The Barr Code http://blogs.ajc.com/bob-barr-blog/2011/07/13/us-lost-space-race-long-ago/)

Last week’s launch of the Atlantis …nothing left over for space exploration.
===Russia CP=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
Text: The government of the Russian Federation should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects including both ground- and space-based tracking measures. The government of the Russian Federation should build telescopes analogous to Arecibo and Goldstone. The government of the Russian Federation should share all information discovered with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The government of the Russian Federation should ensure the Russian Federal Space Agency receives immediate and necessary funding to ensure 100% coverage of asteroids. NASA sucks—Russia is more efficient RIA NOVOSTI 2005 (“Russian Technology Can Put Cosmonauts on Moon,” Dec 2, http://en.rian.ru/analysis/20051202/42288677.html) Despite Russia's 30-fold … could land on the Moon after mounting only three expeditions."
====A2: Perm==== 
The perm fails- Space cooperation is bad—competition benefits both the US and Russia
PRAVDA 5-20-2010 (“International Cooperation in Space Is Impossible,” http://english.pravda.ru/science/tech/20-05-2010/113443-space_cooperation-0/)
In the past, space exploration programs … International cooperation in space nowadays is impossible.
===Decadal Survey CP=== 
Text: The National Research Council should include that the ___ as a Priority 1 recommendation in the 2014-2023 Decadal Survey for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

The CP results in the plan and builds consensus
Space Politics, 3/23/11 (“Would a Human Spaceflight Decadal Survey be Useful?” http://www.spacepolitics.com/2011/03/23/would-a-human-spaceflight-decadal-survey-be-useful/, Sawyer)
Tucked away in last year’s …That is my sincere hope.”

The net benefit is politics
Smith, 9 – editor of Space Policy Online (7/7/09, Marcia, “White House and Congressional Staff Brief NRC Planetary Science Decadal Survey Committee,” http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=232:white-house-and-congressional-staff-brief-nrc-planetary-science-decadal-survey-committee&catid=67:news&Itemid=27, Sawyer)
Their message was in contrast … additional funds available.

===LENR CP=== 
Text: the United States federal government should provide necessary resources for expanded research and development of Low Energy Nuclear Reactor technology at the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center and should require the use of such technology throughout the military.

Recent experiments at SPAWAR prove LENR works – they are already engaged but lack further funding.
Daily Tech – 7 (“NAVY EXPERIMENT GIVES BOOST TO COLD FUSION”, http://prorev.com/coldfusion.htm)
Navy scientists claim that slices of CR-39 plastic. . . … funding to fuel additional research in the field.

New tests show that LENR are practical and give unlimited cheap energy
Blakeslee 11 (Thomas, degree from Cal Tech, respected text book author, 3/31/11, “Low Energy Nuclear Reactions: 2.5 Million Watt-hours from a Nickel?”, http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/blog/post/2011/04/low-energy-nuclear-reactions-2-5-million-watt-hours-from-a-nickel, MH)
Now, from Italy, comes the …change our world into a cleaner, safer place.

===OSTP CP=== 
Text: The United States Office of Science and Technology Policy should recommend that the United States federal government should (do the plan). The Executive Branch of the United States federal government should provide the OSTP with all necessary resources to promote its recommendations.

OSTP recommendation results in the aff
Holdren 2010 – director of office of technology and science development (January 26th, “Message from OSTP director John P. Holdren” http://semanticommunity.info/A_NITRD_Dashboard/OSTP_Open_Government_Plan)
President Obama has repeatedly … submit recommendations to senior officials soon.

===PDD CP=== 

===Government PIC (Thanks Dustin)=== 
We affirm the revolutionary politics of the 1AC as part of a larger political strategy but reject their inclusion of a specific [government-based] plan of action.

The affirmative defends governmental action as part and parcel of their bottom-up movement – this goals-based politics limits potentiality and guarantees state cooption – turns case. We instead advocate their bottom-up movement as part of a larger politics similar in form to the Occupy movement – shifting in goals and demands, never entirely clear, and rejecting the kind of binary structures they reinforce.
Paul 10/20
(Ian Alan Paul is a writer, artist and programmer living in the Bay Area of California. He is currently entangled with investigations of Prefigurative Politics, Antifascist Aesthetics, Network Collectivity/Ethics, and Horizontal Social Movements. He received his MFA and MA at the San Francisco Art Institute in 2011 is in the process of completing his PhD studies in UC Santa Cruz’s Film and Digital Media program, “On Immanence and Occupations,” http://www.ianalanpaul.com/occupy/)
The occupations' power has largely rested …how far the tear will go.

====2NC==== 
Recognizing this individualism is necessary to challenge fascism
Deleuze and Guattari, 1987 [A Thousand Plateaus pg 158-159]
We come to the gradual realization that the … and I have believed in them."

LINKS
First is fixidity. We cannot begin our engagement with politics via a pre-determined plan of action. This guts solvency and leaves us powerless to adapt to specific situations, turns the case
Gilbert Et Al 2008 (Jeremy Gilbert, Éric Alliez, Claire Colebrook, Peter Hallward, Nicholas Thoburn - all have PhDs and whatever; "Deleuzian Politics? A Roundtable Discussion"; New Formations)
Claire: If you think about …f redefinition that is inbuilt.

====A2 Perm==== 
We're methodologically competitive -- our alternative is not some arbitrarily utopian course of action but rather a conceptual apparatus that encounters a different world than the plan. The politics of the affirmative are one of forced movement reacting against the chaotic universe they claim to affirm by including the plan as a false model that insists upon the success of order, repeating the catastrophe in the same method that it is caused. If the perm has a net-benefit then it demonstrably relies on the desirability of a conceptually ordered world that should be rejected. The politics of the alternative is natural movement, which takes joy in the dynamics of historical material and is necessary to understand the conditions of possibility for all political becoming
Deleuze ’87 (Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, The Opera Quarterly 21.4 (2005) 716-724)
A process of rationalization presents itself: it is …committed massacres.14 [End Page 722]

The staticization of micropolitical movements causes a replication of micro-fascistic political strategies which are the precondition for any macropolitical violence. This move to cede human agency to a transcendent conceptual apparatus at the molecular level is the worst sort of political engagement.
Deleuze and Guattari 1980 (A Thousand Plateaus 214-215)
It is not sufficient to define … and collective.

===Doctrinology=== 
The United States should adopt a systematic methodology for the continuous development of official doctrine of __________ in relation to historical military experience, innovation in new technologies and the emergence of new threats.
ONLY a dynamic open-doctrine approach to policy-making capable of learning lessons from experience and integrating new strategic concepts can allow the plan to become adaptive to new scenarios and facilitate effective force structure. ONLY the counterplan allows for the “restricted” mission to be an effective war-fighting instrument post-plan by developing a dynamic framework approach RATHER THAN any ‘durable’ eternal mandate
Temple ’92 Lt Col L. Parker Temple III, (USAF, Retired (USAFA; MBA, University of Northern Colorado; MS, West Coast University), is a private consultant on space policy and programs. “Of Machine Guns, Yellow Brick Roads, and Doctrine” Airpower Journal, Summer http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj92/sum92/temple.htm SW)
We now have the end objective in sight. … science and art together, as provided by the concept of frameworks.

Closed doctrine can’t apply to new warfare -- leads to miscalc as new technology develops – WWI proves
Temple ’92 Lt Col L. Parker Temple III, (USAF, Retired (USAFA; MBA, University of Northern Colorado; MS, West Coast University), is a private consultant on space policy and programs. “Of Machine Guns, Yellow Brick Roads, and Doctrine” Airpower Journal, Summer http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj92/sum92/temple.htm
First, we must recognize that … machine gun in 1914
The rest of the stuff is straight up copied and pasted from the counter-squid michigan camp file.


==Disadvantages== 
===SKFTA=== 
====1NC==== 
A. Uniqueness – SKFTA will pass now but pol cap is key.
Sukhan Kim, senior partner specializing in international trade at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP in Washington, D.C., “Pushing the FTA to the finish line,” 9/6/2011, http://koreajoongangdaily.joinsmsn.com/news/article/Article.aspx?aid=2941157

The U.S. Congress will return from …next two months seems feasible.

C. SKFTA is key to the alliance and heg.
Stangarone, 11/4/2010 (Troy - director of Congressional Affairs and Trade for the Korea Economic Institute, On the sidelines of the g-20, Asia Pacific Bulletin, No. 79, p. 1-2)

The pending free trade agreement between the … reach an understanding on the KORUS FTA.

D. Key to prevent North Korean aggression.
Pritchard et al, 09 – President of the Korea Economic Institute (Charles L, 6/16. With John H. Tilelli Jr., Chairman and CEO, Cypress International, and Scott A. Snyder, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Korea Studies, CFR. “A New Chapter for U.S.-South Korea Alliance.” Council on Foreign Relations. http://www.cfr.org/publication/19635/new_chapter_for_ussouth_korea_alliance.html)

While all eyes have been trained on …China to put pressure on North Korea.

E. Extinction
Hayes and Green, 10 - *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)
The consequences of … from the international community.
====Links==== 
=====Climate Monitoring===== 
Weather Satellites Get Dragged into the Climate Debate – Saps Capital.
Boyle 11. [Rebecca, reporter, “As Congress fusesses over climate semantics, the US faces a weather satellite gap” Popular Science, May 23 -- http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap]

As Congress Fusses Over … As a result, the funding was not approved.

Funding for weather satellites unpopular – JPSS proves
Jeff Foust Bachelor's degree in geophysics Cal Tech, Ph.D. in planetary sciences from MIT 11
Space Politics, “A “pretty bleak picture” for a weather satellite program,” 6/10/2011, http://www.spacepolitics.com/2011/06/10/a-pretty-bleak-picture-for-a-weather-satellite-program/ [Lockwood]

If the data provided by polar-… on that service capability.”

Oil and Gas Lobbies Fight Scientific Research.
La Times 11. [“NASA launch failure is a blow to climate science” March 7 -- http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/greenspace/2011/03/nasa-glory-satellite-climate-change-science.html]

The crash of a NASA rocket …burning of fossil fuel.

Weather monitoring satellites unpopular – GOP wants to cut funding
Conathan 11 (Michael Conathan , the Director of Ocean Policy at Center for American progress,
Science Progress of Center for American Progress, “House GOP Still Says Accurate Weather Forecasting and Hurricane Tracking are Luxuries America Can’t Afford”, 17 March 2011, < http://www.scienceprogress.org/2011/03/house-gop-doubles-down-on-cuts-to-weather-hurricane-and-climate-tracking/>, Azizi)

Last month, CAP and …Apparently we simply can’t afford to know without.
===Earth Science Tradeoff=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
NASA’s budget levels will demand difficult choices, but the Administration is committed to Earth science programs.
Holdren 11 – Director office of Science and Tech policy
(John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/jph-house-sst-testimony-2-17-11.pdf, 2-17)
National Aeronautics and Space Administration … support for the operations of the ISS.

Empirically, emphasis on space exploration trades off with Earth science research.
Stempeck 05 – Senior reporter for E&E Daily
(Brian, E&E Daily senior reporter, “CLIMATE CHANGE: NASA space missions may undermine climate studies,” April 29, Environment and Energy Daily, Lexis)
A member of the National Academy … are some of the most at-risk programs, he said.

Earth sciences solves multiple scenarios for extinction, including climate change.
Killeen 5 – Phd. , Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research
(Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382) NAR
It is clear after decades of … and the reactions of ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses.

Warming = extinction!
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates for global warming to the .., cultural and political changes.

====Links- Asteroids==== 
Asteroid surveys steal funds from other NASA programs
National Academies 9 (“Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12738]
Currently, the U.S. government … by Congress and the funds needed to achieve them.

Err Neg --- Aff studies massively underestimate the costs
NRC 2010 (National Research Council, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,
Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)
The committee was asked to produce independent … its conclusions. The cost estimates are included in Appendix A.

Asteroid programs trade-off within the budget
Johnston 9 (Casey, Associate Writer – Ars Technica and B.S. in Applied Physics – Columbia University, “NASA Asteroid-Tracking Programs Stalled Due to Lack of Funds”, August, http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/08/nasa-asteroid-tracking-program-stalled-due-to-lack-of-funds.ars)
The risk of an asteroid rending civilization … would probably be a complete surprise.

Even basic methods of NEO detection cost hundreds of millions and are likely to need more
NRC 2010 (National Research Council, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)
The near-Earth object (NEO) survey, … significantly as the designs are matured.

====Internal Links==== 
NASA Earth Science key to Global Warming
NAST 8 – non profit dedicated to restoring emphasis on science, aeronautics, and human exploration
( “NASA’S ROLE IN THE 21ST CENTURY“Fall 2008, http://nastus.org/documents/NASARole.21stCentury.pdf)
2) Monitoring and predicting climate … will become more important

Earth science program key to global warming data
Werner 10 – writer for spacenews
(Debra, “NASA ramping up in Earth observation” 12/28/10 http://www.spacenews.com/civil/101228-nasa-ramping-earth-obs.html)
NASA’s Earth science program also …scheduled for launch in 2018, Freilich said.

NASA is key to federal government efforts to combat global warming.
Stempeck 5 – E&E Daily senior reporter
(Brian, “CLIMATE CHANGE: NASA space missions may undermine climate studies,” April 29, Environment and Energy Daily, Lexis)
Currently, NASA contributes … new capability would be available today," Killeen said.

Empirically, space exploration trades off with NASA’s earth science budget and satellites key to combatting climate change.
Huetteman 11 - Writer for the Washing ton Post
(Emmarie, January 25, Washington Post, “Scientists' hopes for climate data are up in the air,” Lexis)
Shortly after it lifted off in …missions were either cut or shelved.
====Warming Real/Anthro==== 
Most recent studies show warming is speeding up and developing countries are key – negative feedback and CO2 ag arguments are now empirically denied.
Kari Lyderson, Washington Post, “Scientists: Pace of Climate Change Exceeds Estimates,” 2/15/2009, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/02/14/AR2009021401757.html
The pace of global ..about 10 billion tons of carbon are emitted each year.
====Warming = Extinction==== 
Warming it disrupts ocean ecosystems through acidification.
Nicholas Kristof, NYT, “Scandal below the surface,” 10/31/2006, http://select.nytimes.com/2006/10/31/opinion/31kristof.html?_r=1
If you think of the earth’s … so to speak, on the shoulders of plankton.

Extinction
Robin Kundis Craig, associate professor of law at Indiana University School of Law, Winter 2003, McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, p. 265-266
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments … possible - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.

===India Launches Disad=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
India expanding launch capabilities now- it’s still mighty fragile
India Current Affairs 7/30 (Indian news agency, 7/30/11, “PSLV Success, ISRO Still in Trouble”, http://indiacurrentaffairs.org/pslv-success-isro-still-in-trouble-d-raghunandan/, MH)
ISRO’s latest space mission … the GSLV issues are resolved.

SSP would allow the U.S. to recapture the launch market
Nansen, 2K- President Solar Space Industries, (Ralph, Statement to the United States Congress Subcommittee on Space Science “The Technical Feasibility of Space Solar Power” Before the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, United States House of Representatives Committee on Science September 7, 2000,
http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=2571)
Solar power satellite development … launch provider for the world.

Indian launch services are vital to Indian soft power and the global economy
Lele, 7- Research Fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi. (Ajey, India Strategic, “Space Program Addin to India’s Brand Image” July 2007, http://www.indiastrategic.in/topstories23.htm)
International prestige in science and .. in space research and capabilities.

That’s key to global democracy promotion – solves war, terrorism, environmental collapse, and disease
Diamond, 7 – senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University (Larry, Times of India, "India, Take the Lead," 12-13-2007,
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/Opinion/Editorial/LEADER_ARTICLE_India_Take_The_Lead/articleshow/2617945.cm)
Whether it wants to be so or not, whether it is ready for . …-setting dialogues, such as the G8.

==Kritiks== 
===Eurocentrism=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
The aff’s justification of scientific creation based on fueling the military combined with its strictly western view towards the world is Eurocentric. The alternative is to reject the aff on the grounds that it fuels this Eurocentric power-matrix, and shift our perspectives as debaters into a decolonial epistemology.
Grosfoguel 11 - Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies, University of Cal. Berkley
(Ramon, 2011, TRANSMODERNITY: Journal of Peripheral Cultural Production of the Luso-Hispanic World, 1(1), Decolonizing Post-Colonial Studies and Paradigms of Political Economy: Transmodernity, Decolonial Thinking, and Global Coloniality)

Globalization studies, political-economy … transformation in different parts of the world).

Eurocentrism results in serial policy failure and endless warfare
Barger 08—Anthropology, Indiana University (Ken, Ethnocentrism, http://www.iupui.edu/~anthkb/ethnocen.htm,)

To address the deeper issues involved in ethnocentrism …over time usually proves to be self-destructive for all concerned.

We should eradicate eurocentrism from scholarship- it reduces minority participation in academia and gives a skewed view
Brooks 8 (Leslie, PhD in cultural studies, “Why should the high school classroom be Eurocentric?”, http://www.blogher.com/why-should-high-school-classroom-be-eurocentric?page=0,1, MH)
It is shameful that we assume that U.S. literature … histories and cultures in our public schools.
====Overview==== 
Second are the epistemological implications
Reject their truth claims – without escaping their Eurocentric paradigm everything they say is suspect.
Grosfoguel 11 - Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies, University of Cal. Berkley
(Ramon, 2011, TRANSMODERNITY: Journal of Peripheral Cultural Production of the Luso-Hispanic World, 1(1), Decolonizing Post-Colonial Studies and Paradigms of Political Economy: Transmodernity, Decolonial Thinking, and Global Coloniality)
The first point to discuss is the contribution of racial/ethnic … ego-politics of knowledge is a Western myth.

Resolving this is a pre-requisite the aff and preventing error replication—discourse shapes the way we frame problems and policies
Adams 11 – *Lecturer in Education and Program Director, Centre for Educational Studies, Univ. of Hull
(Paul, “From ‘ritual’ to ‘mindfulness’: policy and pedagogic positioning,” Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education, January 2011, 32: 1, 57-69)
With such concerns, and many others in mind…is said to exercise agentic action.
====A2: Case Outweighs==== 
Justification of policy based on nuclear war sustains the scientific-military elite that our Grosfoguel evidence speaks to- Nuclear war doesn’t lead to extinction and the kritik oFutweighs
Martin, 84 [Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA 5-16-84 http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html]
By the 1950s, a large number of people had … and appeals to elites over the past several decades.
====A2: Perm==== 
AND, Doesn’t solve—development of space necessarily precludes the exploration of alternative social possibilities. Dickens and Ormrod 7 - *Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences at the University of Cambridge and Visiting Professor of Sociology, University of Essex and **James, Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton (Cosmic Society: Towards a sociology of the universe, pg 77-78) Taken together, our two theoretical starting points … look for critical new visions of our relationship with the universe.
====China Link==== 
There has always been a China security threat—these perceptions are created by the US military-industrial complex. Our institutions need enemies to survive, and China fits the bill—this cycle of enemy creation necessitates the sacrificial destruction of millions- that turns the case
Clark ‘6 (No Rest for 'China Threat' Lobby, Gregory Clark is vice president of Akita International University and a former Australian diplomat. Japan Times, Jan. 7, 2006, http://taiwansecurity.org/News/2006/JT-070106.htm).
For as long as I have been in the .. spent. And millions have died.
====Asteroids Link==== 
Scientists manipulate public discourse over asteroids to solidify their social control and dominate the policy responses.
Mellor 10 – (Felicity, PhD in theoretical physics, lecturer on media theory and science journalism at Imperial College in London, former lecturer in astronomy at Sussex University, “Negotiating uncertainty: asteroids, risk and the media,” Public Understanding of Science 2010 19: 16, sage)
These stories, and others like them … can respond by seeking further control over public discourse.
====Framework==== 
Their misrepresentation of the status quo presupposes a rational, autonomous subject that not only describes the bureaucracy, but also our agency and the judge’s agency to act as one in a position of power – this position does not exist. This is a disad to their framework as well as a terminal solvency takeout
Schlag in 1991 (pierre, colorado law prof. 139 u. Pa. L. Rev.801, april)
For these legal thinkers, it will seem …" stuff and start using a different metaphor.
====Alt extension==== 
It’s the only way to create space policy. Our critique of Western ideology clears the way for new thinking on space—this allows us to benefit from space assets while resisting imperial and national identities.
Siddiqi 10 [Asif A. Siddiqi, assistant professor of history at Fordham University. “Competing Technologies, National(ist) Narratives, and Universal Claims: Toward a Global History of Space Exploration”, Technology and Culture, Volume 51, Number 2, April 2010, Project Muse]
I am not suggesting that we should ignore nations, … represents national aspirations.
===Biopower=== 
Space weapons erase contemporary forms of sovereignty, positing all nations as empty shells subject to US domination and all populations as bare life to be managed and assassinated at imperial will
Duvall and Havercroft 8 (Raymond Duvall, PhD and Master’s from Northwestern in IR, Professor of Critical International Relations at the University of Minnesota, Jonathan Havercroft, PhD from University of Minnesota, Professor in Political Science at the University of Oklahoma, “Taking sovereignty out of this world: space weapons and empire of the future.”, in Review of International Studies, vol 34, proquest, IWren)
Each of the three forms of space … important effects – would be an understatement!

This biopolitical control culminates in extinction
Bernayer 90- Philosophy professor at Boston College =) (James, “MICHAEL FOUCAULT'S FORCE OF FLIGHT: TOWARD AN ETHICS OF THOUGHT”, pp. 141-2 1990)
This capacity of power to conceal … our normal philosophical and historical understanding.

Our alternative is to academically reject the logic of geopolitics at the core of the quest for space dominance—this is critical to open space for interrogation of the socially and historically contingent nature of astropolitical epistemology.
MacDonald 07 (October, Fraser MacDonald, PhD and Master’s from Oxford, Lecturer in Human Geography at the University of Edinburgh, “Anti-Astropolitik - outer space and the orbit of geography”, in Progress in Human Geography, vol 31, issue 5, proquest, IWren)
Dolman’s astropolitical project is by no means …Mackinder and Mahan has become formalized.

===Capitalism Kritik=== 
====Commodification Shell==== 
Your revolution is no different than any other- corporations will commodify your revolution to spoon-feed capitalism in a hip way
Frank 97 PhD in History from University of Chicago, Cultural Historian (Thomas, 1997, The Conquest of Cool: Business Culture and the Rise of Hip Consumerism,)
As the discovery of rule-breaking … generations of mufflers or toothpaste or footwear.

That prevents the potential for any true change and sustains the current capitalist system
Meijer 98 Professor of Journalism at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Lector Media & Civil Society at Hogeschool Windesheim (Irene; Media, Culture and Society, volume 20, no.2)
That basic opposition has been reworked in … qualities of the industry.

The methodology of the capitalist system creates prisons of oppression that deny value to life and make the actions like “final solutions” possible – only through the complete rejection of this mode of thought is liberation possible
Deleuze and Guattari, ’72 (Gilles Deleuze AND Felix Guattari, professor of philosophy at the University of Paris and schizoanalyst, worked at La Borde. Anti-Oedipus 1972 pg 373)
"There is not one of these aspects---not the … resemble prisons, they are prisons.

The alternative is to reject reformism in favor of communal relations of solidarity outside the state to shelter the oppressed from global capitalism.

The only way to destroy capitalism is “an inside attack” which necessitates total rejection of all capitalist relations. This ensures we destroy the system at its source and do not merely reform it in the short term
Herod, Columbia graduate and political activist, 07
(James Herod, “Getting Free: Creating an Association of Democratic Autonomous Neighborhoods,” Boston, 2007, http://www.jamesherod.info/?sec=book&id=1)
It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly and later concretely, … and that is the way we should approach it.

Our schema – You should view the world as if the anti- capitalist revolution has already occurred. The sad fact is we have been trained to think like capitalists, meaning we have an inherent bias towards pro-capitalist ideology. That’s why past revoltuions have failed; focus on past, present, and future sustain and reproduce the harms outlined above.
Zizek, 04 (Slavoj, Revolution at the gates, pg 260)

As Deleuze saw very clearly, we cannot provide in … index of its own truth.
====2NC Links==== 
The most compelling trend is hip hop is corporatization. Corporations want to make money off of the Gangsta culture. Also, there’s a double bind- either
a. Their movement will make it big, get commodified, and lose sight of the cause like Cyprus Hill OR
b. They won’t become popular enough to effectuate change
Arnold 10 (Eric, organic intellectual, 9/13/10, “Why We Need (Real) Gangsta Rap Right Now”, http://colorlines.com/archives/2010/09/why_we_need_real_gangsta_rap_right_now.html, MH)
Meanwhile, the main profiteers from the … has clocked over 5 million views.
===Normativity=== 
THERE IS NO REASON TO VOTE AFFIRMATIVE: THERE IS NO LINK BETWEEN THEIR PROPOSAL AND PRACTICAL, WORLDLY EFFECTS DUE TO THEIR MISREPRESENTATION OF AGENT
SCHLAG 90, PROFESSOR OF LAW@ UNIV. COLORADO, 1990 (PIERRE, STANFORD LAW REVIEW, NOVEMBER, PAGE LEXIS)
In fact, normative legal thought is so …wonderful normative advice into effect.

THEIR MISREPRESENTATION OF THE STATUS QUO PRESUPPOSES A RATIONAL, AUTONOMOUS SUBJECT THAT NOT ONLY DESCRIBES THE BUREAUCRACY, BUT ALSO OUR AGENCY AND THE JUDGE’S AGENCY TO ACT AS ONE IN A POSITION OF POWER – THIS POSITION DOES NOT EXIST
SCHLAG IN 91 (PIERRE, COLORADO LAW PROF. 139 U. PA. L. REV.801, APRIL)

For these legal thinkers, it will seem especially … and practice of legal thought.
SOLVENCY TURN AND EXTERNAL IMPACT THEIR RHETORICAL PERFORMANCE SHIELDS US FOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR OWN CONTRIBUTIONS TO MATERIAL PAIN AND SUFFERING-
DELGADO IN 91 (RICHARD, COLORADO LAW PROFESSOR, 139 PA. L. REV. 933, APRIL)

Are we better off for engaging in … would otherwise make a claim on us.

===Queer Theory=== 
====1NC Shell- Space==== 
The politics of space, specifically the discourse centered on exploration, development, and colonization reproduce heteronormative hierarchies which ensure such hierarchies spread to space.
Griffin 9 (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-60)
This chapter is about sex, but not the sex that people already have clarity about. 'Outer space' as a human, political domain is organized around sex, but a 'sex' that is tacitly located, and rarely spoken, in official discourse. The poli¬ tics of outer space exploration, militarization and commercialization as they are conceived of and practiced in the US, embody a distinction between public and private (and appropriate behaviours, meanings and identities therein) highly dependent upon heteronormative hierarchies of property and propriety.1 The central aim of this chapter is to show how US outer space discourse, an imperial discourse of technological, military and commercial superiority, configutes and prescribes success and successful behaviour in the politics of outer space in particularly gendered forms. US space discourse is, I argue, predicated on a heteronormative discourse of conquest that reproduces the dominance of heterosexual masculinity(ies), and which hierarchically orders the construction of other (subordinate) gender identities. Reading the politics of outer space as heteronormative suggests that the discourses through which space exists consist of institutions, structures of understanding, practical orientations and regulatory practices organized and privileged around heterosexuality. As a particularly dominant discursive arrangement of outer space politics, US space discourse (re)produces meaning through gendered assumptions of exploration, colonization, economic endeavour and military conquest that are deeply gendered whilst presented as universal and neutral. US space discourse, which dominates the contemporary global politics of outer space, is thus formed from and upon institutions, structures of understanding, and practical orientations that privilege and normalize heterosexualiry as universal. As such, the hegemonic discursive rationalizations of space exploration and conquest ,re)produce both heterosexuality as 'unmarked' (that is, thoroughly normal¬ ized) and the heterosexual imperatives that constitute suitable space-able people, practices and behaviours. As the introduction to this volume highlights, the exploration and utilization of outer space can thus far be held up as a mirror of, rather than a challenge to, existent, terrestrially-bound, political patterns, behaviours and impulses. The new possibilities for human progress that the application and development of space technologies dares us to make are grounded only in the strategy¬ obsessed (be it commercially, militarily or otherwise) realities of contemporary global politics. Outer space is a conceptual, political and material space, a place for collisions and collusions (literally and metaphorically) between objects, ideas, identities and discourses. Outer space, like international relations, is a global space always socially and locally embedded. There is nothing 'out there' about outer space. It exists because of us, not in spite of us, and it is this that means that it only makes sense in social terms, that is, in relation to our own constructions of identity and social location. In this chapter, outer space is the problematic to which I apply a gender analysis; an arena wherein past, current and future policy-making is embedded in relation to certain performances of power and reconfigurations of identity that are always, and not incidentally, gendered. Effective and appropriate behaviour in the politics of ourer space is configured and prescribed in particularly gendered forms, with heteronormative gender regulations endowing outer space's hierarchies of technologically superior, conquesting performance with theif everyday power. It is through gender that US techno-strategic and astro-political discourse has been able to (re)produce outer space as a heterosexualized, masculinized realm.

Heteronormativity results in omnicide. The combination of the universal suspicion of Queerness and the genocidal impulse to eradicate it motivates a larger apocalyptic movement to rescue hetero-culture with extinction.
Sedgwick 8 (Eve, Professor of English at Duke University, Epistemology of the Closet, second revised edition, California at Berkeley Press, p. 127-130)
From at least the biblical story of Sodom and Gomorrah, scenarios of same-sex desire would seem to have had a privileged, though by no means an exclusive, relation in Western culture to scenarios of both genocide and omnicide. That sodomy, the name by which homosexual acts are known even today to the law of half of the United States and to the Supreme Court of all of them, should already be inscribed with the name of a site of mass extermination is the appropriate trace of a double history. In the first place there is a history of the mortal suppression, legal or subjudicial, of gay acts and gay people, through burning, hounding, physical and chemical castration, concentration camps, bashing—the array of sanctioned fatalities that Louis Crompton records under the name of gay genocide, and whose supposed eugenic motive becomes only the more colorable with the emergence of a distinct, naturalized minority identity in the nineteenth century. In the second place, though, there is the inveterate topos of associating gay acts or persons with fatalities vastly broader than their own extent: if it is ambiguous whether every denizen of the obliterated Sodom was a sodomite, clearly not every Roman of the late Empire can have been so, despite Gibbon's connecting the eclipse of the whole people to the habits of a few. Following both Gibbon and the Bible, moreover, with an impetus borrowed from Darwin, one of the few areas of agreement among modern Marxist, Nazi, and liberal capitalist ideologies is that there is a peculiarly close, though never precisely defined, affinity between same-sex desire and some historical condition of moribundity, called "decadence," to which not individuals or minorities but whole civilizations are subject. Bloodletting on a scale more massive by orders of magnitude than any gay minority presence in the culture is the "cure," if cure there be, to the mortal illness of decadence. If a fantasy trajectory, utopian in its own terms, toward gay genocide has been endemic in Western culture from its origins, then, it may also have been true that the trajectory toward gay genocide was never clearly distinguishable from a broader, apocalyptic trajectory toward something approaching omnicide. The deadlock of the past century between minoritizing and universalizing understandings of homo/heterosexual definition can only have deepened this fatal bond in the heterosexist imaginaire. In our culture as in Billy Budd, the phobic narrative trajectory toward imagining a time after the homosexual is finally inseparable from that toward imagining a time after the human; in the wake of the homosexual, the wake incessantly produced since first there were homosexuals, every human relation is pulled into its shining representational furrow. Fragments of visions of a time after the homosexual are, of course, currently in dizzying circulation in our culture. One of the many dangerous ways that AIDS discourse seems to ratify and amplify preinscribed homophobic mythologies is in its pseudo-evolutionary presentation of male homosexuality as a stage doomed to extinction (read, a phase the species is going through) on the enormous scale of whole populations. 26 The lineaments of openly genocidal malice behind this fantasy appear only occasionally in the respectable media, though they can be glimpsed even there behind the poker-face mask of our national experiment in laissez-faire medicine. A better, if still deodorized, whiff of that malice comes from the famous pronouncement of Pat Robertson: "AIDS is God's way of weeding his garden." The saccharine luster this dictum gives to its vision of devastation, and the ruthless prurience with which it misattributes its own agency, cover a more fundamental contradiction: that, to rationalize complacent glee at a spectacle of what is imagined as genocide, a proto-Darwinian process of natural selection is being invoked—in the context of a Christian fundamentalism that is not only antievolutionist but recklessly oriented toward universal apocalypse. A similar phenomenon, also too terrible to be noted as a mere irony, is how evenly our culture's phobia about HIV-positive blood is kept pace with by its rage for keeping that dangerous blood in broad, continuous circulation. This is evidenced in projects for universal testing, and in the needle-sharing implicit in William Buckley's now ineradicable fantasy of tattooing HIV-positive persons. But most immediately and pervasively it is evidenced in the literal bloodbaths that seem to make the point of the AIDS-related resurgence in violent bashings of gays--which, unlike the gun violence otherwise ubiquitous in this culture, are characteristically done with two-by-fours, baseball bats, and fists, in the most literal-minded conceivable form of body-fluid contact. It might be worth making explicit that the use of evolutionary thinking in the current wave of utopian/genocidal fantasy is, whatever else it may be, crazy. Unless one believes, first of all, that same-sex object-choice across history and across cultures is one thing with one cause, and, second, that its one cause is direct transmission through a nonrecessive genetic path--which would be, to put it gently, counter-intuitive--there is no warrant for imagining that gay populations, even of men, in post-AIDS generations will be in the slightest degree diminished. Exactly to the degree that AIDS is a gay disease, it's a tragedy confined to our generation; the long-term demographic depredations of the disease will fall, to the contrary, on groups, many themselves direly endangered, that are reproduced by direct heterosexual transmission. Unlike genocide directed against Jews, Native Americans, Africans, or other groups, then, gay genocide, the once-and-for-all eradication of gay populations, however potent and sustained as a project or fantasy of modern Western culture, is not possible short of the eradication of the whole human species. The impulse of the species toward its own eradication must not either, however, be underestimated. Neither must the profundity with which that omnicidal impulse is entangled with the modern problematic of the homosexual: the double bind of definition between the homosexual, say, as a distinct risk group, and the homosexual as a potential of representation within the universal. 27 As gay community and the solidarity and visibility of gays as a minority population are being consolidated and tempered in the forge of this specularized terror and suffering, how can it fail to be all the more necessary that the avenues of recognition, desire, and thought between minority potentials and universalizing ones be opened and opened and opened?

The alternative is to reject the aff’s worldview in favor of a queer theory based approach. Resistance must be constant, potentials must not be limited, and strategies must resist the normate.
Steyaert 10 (Doctor in Psychology and Professor in Organizational Psychology at the University of St. Gallen (January 2010, Chris, Gender, Work and Organization., “Queering Space: Heterotopic Life in Derek Jarman’s Garden”, vol. 17, no. 1)
The rich artistic output that Jarman realized under difficult circumstances was not possible without challenging the societal limits in which he worked artistically. The figure of the troubadour and the Harlequin announce a car- nivalesque form of resistance (Dey and Steyaert, 2007). The red thread that connects the personal, the artistic and the political is Jarman’s homosexuality. This makes it necessary to look at the care of the self as a practice of resistance and his gardening as a form of ‘queering space’. His art becomes the political activism that tries to form a minor language in an increasingly repressive discourse on homosexuality. However, since the seropositive diagnosis, the mood in which this activism is played out changed drastically, and [t]his time his mood would be Artaudian: it would take the form of a scream of rage, an attack on the gutter press and the moral low ground that British culture now occupied. (Morgan, 1996, p. 113) The care of the self aims not at some form of personal transformation, since it should be clear that heterotopic subjectivity is a ‘historical construct which cannot be understood outside relations of power and knowledge’ (Berard, 1999, p. 217). Jarman stretched the relation between his personal history and the ways in which various histories that he, as a gay person, had became part of, are usually told. Jarman worked as intensively on the limits which (British) society posed on him as well as on the limits that death entered on his life scene in the form of seropositivity. Like every gay person, taking care of himself was for Jarman as much a practical as a historical task. Just as for most other people becoming aware of being gay or lesbian forces you to deal with a setting of public practices and discourses that are filled with heterosexual expectations and models and that you need to resist, turn around and replace, without any clear set of alternative forms or practices available. Being mostly exposed to a heteronormative ideal of living, you have to (learn to) re-inscribe yourself into a history of a different sexuality and in the most practical sense find new practices of living and relating that are helpful to go on with your life ‘out of the closet’ (Brown, 2000). According to Foucault, resistance is focused on ‘the forms within which individuals are able, are obliged, to recognize themselves as subjects of this sexuality’ (Foucault, 1990b, p. 4). Perhaps resisting is not pleasant work, but it is clearly something that needs to be done repeatedly, daily, when you want to claim a space for oneself. Stonewall is the legendary symbol of gay resistance, the somewhat belated open opposition to those who wanted to take away even the small ghettos for gays. As a consequence, a little cafe in New York became a heterotopia for an act of resistance that was followed with an increasing amount of demonstrations, parades and (protest) marches, through which gay and lesbian people bring homosexuality out of the closet, or out of protected spaces, and visibly into the streets. Depicting exemplary demonstrations, processions and gatherings, Jarman made several references to this in his films, including The Garden and Edward II. The kind of liberating struggle that Jarman at that time practiced in his movies, paintings and artistic work in general comes close to the kind of ‘counterattack’ Foucault (1990) foresaw: It is the agency of sex that we must break away from, if we aim — through a tactical reversal of the various mechanisms of sexuality — to counter the grips of power with the claims of bodies, pleasures, and knowledges, in their multiplicity and their possibility of resistance. The rallying point for the counterattack against the deployment of sexuality ought not to be sex-desire, but bodies and pleasures. (Foucault, 1990a, p. 157; my emphasis)9 It is the dimension of resistance which in my view makes it feasible to connect the care of the self and the technologies of the self with the concept of queerness. According to Foucault (1982a) resistance is not just an act of negation, but a creative process. This includes as much the daily creative execution of living as the artistic option of creating an aesthetic track of one’s own. In the case of gay and lesbian resistance the creative process through which discursive realities are confronted has been captured by the term ‘queer’. The term ‘queer’ is itself heterotopic.10 It is at odds with definition and allergic to any kind of stabilizing, as it tries to escape the settling discourses and forms of living and is tending ‘toward “across” formulations: across genders, across sexualities, across genres, across “perversions” ’ (Kosofsky Sedgwick, quoted in Plonowska Ziarek, 1998, p. 18; italics in original). In an attempt to value the destabilizing character of the term queer, Halperin (1995) tries to develop a ‘queer’ politics based on Foucault’s work, drawing mainly on The History of Sexuality but also on several interviews Foucault gave in the 1980s to magazines for gay and lesbian audiences (such as The Advocate in 1982 and Christopher Street in 1981) and which have been collected in Part 4 of Dits et Ecrits (Foucault, 1994). According to Halperin (1995), homosexual emancipation and gay liberation imply a reversal of the discursive positioning of homosexuality and heterosexuality. Heterosexuality, which is in the position of a universal subject of discourse, needs to be interrogated and critiqued. Simultaneously homosexuality needs to shift from the position of an object of power/ knowledge ‘to a position of legitimate subjective agency’ (Halperin, 1995, p. 57). Queer activities and practices are thus trying to reverse the dominant position of a heterosexual discourse, which can never be considered as lacking what Foucault calls a tactical polyvalence. According to Foucault the world of discourse cannot be divided between accepted and excluded dis- course, or between the dominant and the dominated discourse, since [D]iscourses are not once and for all subservient to power or raised up against it, any more than silences are. We must make allowance for the complex and unstable process whereby discourse can be both an instru- ment and an effect of power, but also a hindrance, a stumbling-block, a point of resistance and a starting point for an opposing strategy. (Foucault, 1990a, pp. 100–1; my emphasis). The psychiatric discourse on homosexuality started being used in reverse to claim a position and to speak using the same categories but with opposite intentions, namely to start to claim a position which is not defined by oppo- sition to the heterosexual essence. It is here that queerness can be situated, and it is worthwhile to quote Halperin on this at length as he convincingly argued that to shift the position of ‘the homosexual’ requires making available to lesbians and gay men a new kind of sexual identity, one char- acterised by its lack of a clear definitional content. The homosexual subject can now claim an identity without an essence. To do so is to reverse the logic of the supplement and to make use of the vacancy left by the evacu- ation of the contradictory and incoherent definitional content of ‘the homo- sexual’ in order to take up instead a position that is (and always had been) defined wholly relationally, by its distance to and difference from the nor- mative. (Homo)sexual identity can now be constituted not substantively but oppositionally, not by what it is but by where it is and how it operates. Those who knowingly occupy such a marginal location, who assume a de-essentialised identity that is purely positional in character, are properly speaking not gay but queer. (1995, pp. 61–2; emphasis in original) Becoming queer is then turning the position of the gay, struggling with ‘coming out’ into an open positionality, where new possibilities for living and relating (to oneself and others) emerge. Queer can refer to a whole set of (sometimes eccentric) technologies of the self — which can not be defined substantively or even illustrated — where the space for development is inventively explored, never occupied. It is a space of concrete freedom, for self- styling and self-transforming. The care of the self, as a queer project, engenders a new strategic possibility for the self. Transformation is a matter of form where we play out ourselves in the field of institutional games (Foucault, 1995b). The politics and practice of queer resistance consists thus in the playful experimenting with new forms of relationships and in expanding possibilities of relational practices at the limits of established social orders. The breaking out of relationships as defined by heteronormativity is not so much a matter of redefining a new, this time homosexual, norm, but of leaving you in an open field in which to concoct new forms of relating and living together. Foucault described being gay in an open, becoming mode, which sounds to me very similar to the notion of ‘queer’ that was not yet in vogue in Foucault’s time: to be gay is to be in a state of becoming ... the point is not to be homosexual but to keep working persistently at being gay ... to place oneself in a dimension where the sexual choices one makes are present and have their effects on the ensemble of our life ... These sexual choices ought to be at the same time creators of ways of life. To be gay signifies that these choices diffuse themselves across the entire self; it is also a certain manner of refusing the modes of life offered, it is to make a sexual choice into the impetus for a change of existence. (Foucault, 1982b, p. 24) Queering one’s life is not just a matter of having done with heterosexual life forms, but Foucault seemed to believe that these experimentations might open up and inspire the social fabric of affecting and relating in general. He pleaded to resist the kind of relationships society proposes and thought that queer practices might bring along new relational possibilities that can also enrich the lives of non-homosexual people (Foucault, 1981). Foucault deemed such experimentation and ongoing formation of queering and othering rela- tionships indispensable but also improbable, since most of us are not willing to deal with such an open and complex relational life. Queering space can thus counter the impoverishment of the relational world, since in effect, we live in a legal, social, and institutional world where the only relations possible are extremely few, extremely simplified, and extremely poor.
====1NC- Environment==== 
What environmental imapcts are important? The affirmative presents you with a hierarchy of environmental importance. This hierarchy produces a world wherein homosexuals and non-whites are toxic. This epistemology tragically mirrors the worst colonialist genocides. Their strategy destroys the potential for coalition building.
Gosine 10 (Andil, Associate Professor of Sociology at York, 4/28/2010, “Non-white Reproduction and Same-Sex Eroticism: Queer Acts against Nature”, Queer ecologies: sex, nature, politics, desire, p.155-9, MH)
The denunciation of homosexuality shares much in common with the attacks on the fertility and potentially reproductive sexualities of non-white men and women. First, nature stands in for nation in both narratives, an easy epistemological substitution, as nations have the same requirements as “healthy environments”: reproductive species and resistance to the incursions of foreign bodies. As Sarah Ahmed suggests, “a good or healthy neighbourhood [or nation] does not leak outside itself, and hence does not let outsiders (or foreign agents/viruses) in” (2000, 25). There is, she adds, “no body as such that is given in the world: bodies materialize in a complex set of temporal and spatial relations to other bodies, including bodies that are recognized as familiar and friendly, and those that are considered strange” (40). In white nationalist projects, including European colonization, homosexuals and non-white reproductive heterosexuals are “strange”; they make no contribution to the building and expansion of—and in fact threaten—white nations. Their significance derives instead from their manifestations of oppositional subjects, as the Others through whom the white subject can make sense of himself (for the “normal” human subject is always a biological male), and upon whom anxieties about identity may be focused. The articulation of nature within a white, nationalist framework, furthermore, produces homosexuals and non-whites as not just strange, but toxic. Working with Ahmed’s theorization of nationalism, Berila points out that “who and what counts as toxic is . . . deeply contested ground” (2005, 130). “Since the bodies of particular others, usually people of color, queers, women, or people from other nations, are repeatedly targeted as threats to the nation,” she adds, “the reading of which bodies are marked as toxic seems particularly important in any discussion of the landscapes of nation and national identity” (130). Nationalism is always predicated on racialized heterosexuality, as the survival of nations demands the reproduction of bodies. It is for this reason that women have been regarded in nationalist discourses as objects of both reverence and slippage; they are biological reproducers of the nation, but any sexual transgressions on their part (lesbianism, interracial sex) mean that they also threaten its survival (Anthias, Yuval-Davis, and Cain 1992). The most expansive project of white nationalism, the colonization of North America, has been deeply informed by and achieved through the generation of responses to anxieties about homosexuality and the sexual liberties of non-white heterosexuals. Historian Ned Katz notes that “the widespread homosexuality of the North American Indians was given as an excuse by the invading whites for their extermination” and “the Christianization of Native Americans and the colonial appropriation of the continent by white, Western ‘civilization’ included the attempt by the conquerors to eliminate various traditional forms of
Indian homosexuality—as part of their attempt to destroy that Native culture that might fuel resistance—a form of cultural genocide involving both Americans and Gay people” (quoted in Gaard 1998, 33). White homosexual subjects betrayed the nation’s reproductive imperative. The threat of non-white homosexual subjects to the nation was differently rationalized. They were problematic by virtue of their apparent potential to attract and “homo-sexualize” whites. Stoler notes that during the colonial period, “desires for opulence and sex, wealth and excess were repeatedly attributed to creole Dutch and lower-class Europeans, to those with culturally hybrid affiliations and/or of mixed-blood origin.” Natives and these “fictive” Europeans, Stoler adds, were “persons ruled by their sexual desires” (1995, 183). The “homosexual native” and the “native woman” represented temptation, and threatened to unravel the European’s self-discipline, unleashing his darkest fantasies. These anxieties laid the groundwork for the theories of racialization that would emerge in the nineteenth century, such as those posited by Count Gobineau in his “Essay on the Equality of Races.” Gobineau’s core argument was that it was the white races who are inclined to be sexually attracted toward the other races, which is why they mix with them, while yellow and brown races were deemed to have a stronger repulsion to interracial sex, which is why, he says, they tended to remain relatively unmixed (quoted in Young 1995, 107). Indeed, nineteenth-century theories of race did not just consist of essentializing differentiations between self and other but also were, as Young points out, broadly about “a fascination with people having sex—interminable, adulterating, aleatory, illicit, inter-racial sex” (181). Such racial theory, Young argues, “projected a phantasmagoria of the desiring machine [of colonialism] as a people factory.” There were great fears about uncontrollable, frenetic fornication producing the countless motley varieties of interbreeding, with the miscegenated offspring themselves then generating an ever increasing melange, “mongrelity,” of self-propagating endlessly diversifying hybrid progeny: half-blood, half-caste, half-breed, cross-breed, amalgamate, intermix, miscegenate, alvino,
cabre, cafuso, castizo, cholo, chino, cob, creole, dustee, fustee, griffe, mamaluco. (181) Subsequent to the fall of European empires, these anxieties took new shape as anti-immigration discourses (“Yellow Fever,” “Asian Invasion,” etc.) and, as already noted, overpopulation propaganda. More recently, postindustrial concerns about environmental degradation have provided another prism through which xenophobia and racism could be articulated as environmental prudence. But make no mistake about it: Calls by groups such as the Sierra Club (U.S.)—some of them made as recently as 2006—to curb immigration and regulate the sexual reproduction of people in the Global South are merely a restatement of white nationalist ideals as a commitment to nature. This analysis is supported by research demonstrating North American environmentalists’ commitment to white nationalist constructions of nature. As Noël Sturgeon points out, mainstream environmentalists, in their emphasis on wilderness, species extinction, and in general seeing the environment as excluding human beings, often fall into service to this dominant Western logic of seeing the natural as pure, unchanging, untainted by social influence and without history. This kind of mainstream environmentalism avoids environmental justice issues, which deal primarily with problems of human and community health using a broader, less reified definition of the environment and identifying power relations as central to the cause of environmental problems. (2004, 263) Nature needs protection, this logic forwards, from the toxic presence of non-white bodies. Coverage of arrests of men engaged in or looking for sex in natural spaces similarly reveals nature’s parallel constitution (with nation) as a pure space that must be protected from the incursions of toxic homosexuals. One commonly employed strategy toward this effect has been to equate sex with pollution, and to focus on the litter and damage to the environment produced by homosexual acts. A news report filed by Sarah Lemagie for the Star Tribune on the Minnesota arrests provides one illustration of this approach. Lemagie begins the article by associating gay sex with garbage. “The trash-strewn pulloffs along the Minnesota River hardly look like Lovers’ Lane,” she notes, “but to Burnsville police who have been tracking lewd behavior between men there, that’s basically what they’ve become.” Writing about a popular cruising spot at Maple Grove, she quotes an officer who makes note of the damage men seeking sex inflict on the environment and litter they leave behind. “Men loitered in cars or at picnic benches and retreated in pairs to the bushes,” where officers found mattresses and “condoms by the hundreds,” she reports him as saying. In Canada, an article about male cruising in Stanley Park that appeared in the Vancouver Sun in 2001 reported, “Venture down one of the well-worn side paths into the trees and you can’t miss it. The soggy ground is carpeted with used condoms, their wrappers, and tissues, the tell-tale remnants of what is widely known in the male gay community as park sex” (Zacharias 2001, A1). A June 2007 story appearing in the National Post repeated this association of homosexual sex with pollution of natural space, and condemned police for not taking punitive action. “Visitors to one part of famous Stanley Park may stumble upon men engaged in fellatio and intercourse,” columnist Brian Hutchinson noted, “yet cruising areas, littered with used condoms and cigarette butts, seem sacrosanct” (Hutchison 2007, A1). Similarly, a report filed by Peter Baker for the Essex Chronicle focuses on the outrage expressed by Brian Olley in encountering homosexual acts taking place in Hylands Park. According to the article, park user Brian Olley “exercises his dog in Hylands by walking from his nearby home twice a day” (2006, 11). Although he had often seen “vehicles with male occupants park outside the main gate [to the Hylands]” on most evenings, he was “shocked to come across two men having sex on a path he used to walk his dog by the park’s edge” (11). Olley, Barker reports, has noticed “there is unsavoury litter around the entrance area” frequented by men looking for sex. The Hylands estate manager is also quoted as saying, “The condoms and tissues presumably get deposited on the highway and in lay-bys” (11). This littering of parks is akin to “dirtying the nation,” particularly in light of the historical constitution of parks as part of white nation-building. More recently, moral dangers about both homosexuality and non-white reproductive heterosexuality have been stated through the production of ecological discourses. In Malthusian renderings of environmentalism, the planet’s demise is linked to the immoral ravishes of the polluting underclass. Sandilands notes that population discourse “relies on the bifurcation of the world into two: ‘good’ ecological citizens, who have listened to and understood the call for limits and do not require (further) regulatory intervention, and unruly bodies, who have not, might not and/or do not” (1999, 86). Nature has similarly been used as a means of production and site of moral regulation against homosexual sex, such as in the representation of public sex as polluting. Sandilands explains, “Bulldozing the trees or pulling up the undergrowth in a downtown park can be as much a threat to the public expression of gay male culture as it is to urban nature, and polluting a beach that acts as a center for outdoor lesbian activity can destroy both biotic and social communities” (2001, 175). Sandilands concludes that mainstream environmentalism, such as that involved in the creation of urban parks, “includes a strong historical tradition of marginalizing sexual expression; in order to approach moral purity, sexuality was excluded” (Ingram, quoted in Sandilands 2001, 176). A 2005 U.S. Department of Justice guidebook entitled Illicit Sexual Activity in Public Places, produced by the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, makes clear the equation of immoral with environmental transgressions insofar as homosexuality is concerned. Issued as part of a series that aims to “summarize knowledge about how police can reduce the harm caused by specific crime and disorder problems” (v)

Our alternative is to affirm a politics of queer ecocriticism. This entails a questioning of what it means to be natural to resist traditional forms of domination. Only this strategy has the potential to build mass coalitions to fix the environment.
Hogan 10 (Katie, Professor of English and Director of Women’s Studies at Carlow University, 7/14/2010, “Undoing Nature: Coalition Building as Queer Environemtnalism”, Queer ecologies: sex, nature, politics, desire, p232-3, MH)
In response to repeated condemnations, queer activists, theorists, artists, writers, and filmmakers—with impressive critical force, ingenuity, and creativity—have directed intense theoretical and activist attention to the undoing of the natural and unnatural. This body of work challenges not only heteronormativity, but uncritical nature-based arguments and ideologies. A fully conscious queer ecocritique, as Timothy Morton suggests above, is precisely what contemporary ecocriticism needs. In fact, Morton calls for a “partnership between queer theory and ecological criticism,” a collaboration that he says “is long overdue” (Morton 2007, 186). Similarly, although focusing on affinities between ecocriticism and postmodernism, scholar Peter Quigley echoes Morton’s ideas in “Nature as Dangerous Space” (1999). In this article, Quigley urges ecocriticism to critically rethink nature: “If nature could be seen as a force that disrupts, overwhelms, undermines, explodes or otherwise ‘makes strange’ our ideological consensus, our anthropocentrism, then it is possible to see it as an agent of criticism” (198). Treating nature as criticism means revealing the hidden ideologies, assumptions, and politics of the term. Queer ecocritique shares in these scholars’ determined skepticism about discourses of nature and environmentalism, not because queers are innately urban and “hate” nature or environmentalism, or because nature and environmentalism are “naturally” oppressive to queers, but because queer theories are designed to challenge the assumption that nature and the natural are neutral, independent categories exempt from critical challenge. Queer ecocritique takes the alleged “against nature-ness” of queers as the focus of its work. Whether formally recognized or not, a queer ecocritique is a powerful contribution to ecocriticism and environmental justice theory and activism; it keeps the focus on how the seemingly innocent realm of nature and ecological protection is potentially rife with ideology and violence. Queer ecocriticism relentlessly uncovers nature as, to quote again from Quigley, “a weapon of oppression,” thus offering a critical practice from which to build theoretical partnerships and multi-issue political actions (1999, 202). Quigley sees this oppressive aspect right alongside an activist potential too when he writes that nature is also “a place to gather strength against the forces of domination” (201–202). In other words, nature is an opportunity to build theoretical overlaps and an opportunity for activist coalitions among seemingly disparate groups and communities. In Eight Bullets: One Woman’s Story of Surviving Anti-Gay Violence by Claudia Brenner and Hannah Ashley (1995), Brenner evokes Quigley’s vision of nature as both weapon of oppression and place “to gather strength.” A queer memoir about a hate crime that resulted in the murder of Brenner’s life partner during the couple’s hike on the Appalachian Trail in eastern Pennsylvania, Eight Bullets unwittingly demonstrates a queer ecocritique by recording the consequences of heteronormative ideas of nature and environment—that queer groups and individuals do not deserve to be in nature because they are “unnatural”—and by responding with images of queer cultures in nature to resist “the forces of domination.” Using nature as a chance to fight domination is specifically voiced in the following statement of the design of the murdered queer woman’s memorial service: “Evelyn and Rebecca’s closest friends had planned this memorial service, deliberately choosing a beautiful, outdoor place both to honor Rebecca’s love of nature and to reclaim the outdoors after her murder. The clearing seemed to grow to the perfect size for the huge circle of over 150 people who had come to celebrate her life” (Brenner and Ashley 1995, 104–105). Queer ecocritique not only shows us how to undermine and challenge the “against nature” ideology eloquently charted in Eight Bullets; it also highlights how queer texts create interesting and resistant political cultures using nature as an organizing focus.

====Overview==== 
Threat Construction—Space is what we make of it- that’s Griffin. Creating these threats around space only make them inevitable.
Samuel S Kim, Dept of Poli Sci Monmouth College, Global Violence and a Just World Order, Journal of Peace Research, no 2, 1984 p. 187
This pacified and disarmed consciousness or alienation in Marxian terms - has allowed the managers of the national security superstate to shift both their military doctrine and hardware toward making nuclear war more thinkable, more fightable, and more 'winnable'. The resultant expectations of nuclear war do not augur well, for, as social psychologist Gordon Allport put it: 'The greatest menace to the world today are leaders in office who regard war as inevitable and thus prepare their people for armed conflict. For by regarding war as inevitable, it becomes inevitable. Expectations determine behavior' (Allport 1968, p. 11).

Second are the epistemological ones
- Resolving questions of epistemology come first and prevent error replication—discourse is the sin qua none of modern policy making. Resist the urge to believe them—their position as the dominant mode of thought gives them a head start on the flow.
Adams 11 – *Lecturer in Education and Program Director, Centre for Educational Studies, Univ. of Hull (Paul, “From ‘ritual’ to ‘mindfulness’: policy and pedagogic positioning,” Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education, January 2011, 32: 1, 57-69,)
With such concerns, and many others in mind, it has become fashionable to describe policy in terms of discourse. Whilst by no means an agreed field (cf. Bacchi, 2000) policy as discourse does provide grounds for further consideration of the interplay between policy creation and response. As a challenge to the view that policy, as a manifestation of knowledge, arises either in the individual or in the natural world, we can consider the work of Kenneth Gergen (1995) and his proposal that all knowing arises in the social processes of language use and meaning-making. Here, rather than construe policy as the accurate expression of dispassionate, unbiased observations, such a view shifts our relationship with policy from a means by which the individual might comprehend the significance of the policy statement in terms of truth to an understanding that the language used within the policy statements itself actively constructs the world to which it pertains. Put another way, Gergen’s view invites us to consider policy as having a ‘performative’ function and that that presented is neither a true representation of reality nor an accurate reflection of intent. Accordingly, policy can no longer be simply said to be understood and applied. Alternatively, this perspective construes policy as a representation of the interplay between the policy text (the material embodiment of the policy document and associated forms), discursive practices involved in the production, distribution and consumption of policy, and wider social practices which delineate, for example ‘professional’ and, indeed, other roles and associated activities. This view acknowledges the parts played by history and culture in determining specific ways of viewing the world whilst illuminating how understanding is dependent upon prevailing social and economic arguments (after Burr, 2003). Policy, then, should not be seen as an accurate portrayal of some pre-existing status but is, rather, a social construction given legitimacy through the permission it gives to speak. Policy as discourse is, therefore, an interplay between ‘conceptual schema attached to specific historical, institutional and cultural contexts . . . [and] . . . the differential power of some actors’ (Bacchi, 2000, p. 52) to act. With this in mind, it is clear that professional actions undertaken in relation to policy appear, not as objective responses to positions of truth, but rather as subjective realisations borne out of cultural, historical, economic and social specificity. Policy as discourse attends to both the uses and effects of policy insomuch as it considers the influences pertaining to the creation of the policy text, the mechanisms by which this is imported into the professional lifeworld and the prevailing social conditions which form the very language used to describe the policy itself, as well as associated roles and identities; in short, policy as social construction. This view is not new; much has been written from this perspective. On this matter, Bacchi notes the tendency of this perspective to: Concentrate on the ability of some groups rather than others to make discourse, and on some groups rather than others as effected or constituted in discourse. To put the point briefly, those who are deemed to ‘hold’ power are portrayed as the ones making discourse, whereas those who are seen as ‘lacking’ power are described as constituted in discourse. (2000, p. 52) This redistribution of voice constitutes certain voices as meaningful or authoritative (Ball, 2006, p. 49). This social construction of policy requires an appreciation that the processes of problematisation and argumentation are the lifeblood of policy existence. The lenses offered by history, culture and economics through which ‘problems’ to be solved are identified determine not only the mechanisms by which ‘reality’ might be understood but also the very ‘problems’ themselves. Further, it is through the process of argumentation that certain solutions are presented as viable alternatives. Crucially, as Hastings (1998, p. 194) notes, this ‘highlights the instrumentality of the process of problem construction not only to successful policy making, but also to sustaining systems of belief about the nature of social reality’. Problem construction is, then, ‘as much a way of knowing and a way of acting strategically as a form of description’ (Edelman, 1988, p. 36). In this regard, policy as discourse establishes a number of key principles. First, it articulates a view that ‘problems’ do not exist as pre-human issues to be addressed but rather that they are the products of political reasoning located in economic, social, cultural and historical ways of viewing the world. Second, that these lenses also provide the means by which solutions, that is to say the pronouncements ‘captured’ as policy imperatives, might be constructed. Third, and most importantly, policy as discourse, through its recognition of cultural, historical, economic and social specificity, constrains the scope of both policy construction and policy response (Ball, 2006). Put briefly, discourse presents a variety of representations from which action might be chosen: Discourses are about what can be said, and thought, but also about who can speak, when, where and with what authority. Discourses embody the meaning and use of propositions and words. Thus certain possibilities for thought are constructed. (Ball, 2006, p. 48) This world-to-person fit describes the ‘subject position’, determined by the availability of dominant discourses. Interpretational options are thus taken to be both pre-existing and available to the subject. In such a view, human agency occurs through the deployment of the subject’s exercise of choice from the discourses available. In short, through the act of locating oneself within a frame of predetermined potentialities, the subject is said to exercise agentic action.
====Alt Extension/A2: Cede the Political==== 
The alternative is to take a queer theory inspired approach to the 1AC. Their politics are deeply flawed and ignore oppression ignore oppression. The alternative flips their strategy, resolves social justice issues, and is resolves its issues.
Kumashiro 4 (Kevin, professor of Asian American Studies and Education at the University of Illinois at Chicago, 3/10/04, “Queer Ideals in Education”, Queer Theory and Communication: From Disciplining Queers to Queering the Discipline, p. 366-7, MH)
U.S. schools. At both local and national levels, conservative groups are gaining more and more influence over education, helping to develop and impose “standards” that prescribe what students are to learn and even how teachers are to teach. Perhaps not surprisingly, these standards are quite problematic: They reinforce only certain ways of making sense of ourselves and the world in which we live, especially ways that ignore or even justify an inequitable status quo. Students are not often learning things that help them to recognize and challenge the different forms of oppression that are already in play in schools and society. This needs to change. I am not suggesting that we abandon what we currently teach and replace it with “better” standards of the “correct” perspectives and knowledges and skills. Any set of standards will be partial, that is, will be defined by only certain people to include only certain things. Even perspectives that critique social inequities cannot help but be partial, offering only certain ways of thinking about oppression and social change that can themselves be critiqued. Instead, I am suggesting that troubling the standards already in place requires teaching and learning about this partial nature of standards. It requires teaching and learning that different perspectives and knowledges and skills can have different political implications–some that maintain an oppressive status quo of society, but some that challenge it, and some that suggest very different social possibilities. It requires challenging ways that the standards normalize only certain ways of teaching and define all others as pretty queer ways to teach. Standards often function in similar ways in higher education, even among academics committed to social justice. Higher education often places higher value on only certain kinds of research, such as those that use “valid” methodologies or draw on “credible” literature or appear in “reputable” journals. It places higher value on only certain kinds of teaching, such as those that conform to commonsense ideas of “good” teaching or those that have been “proven” effective by research. It places higher value on only certain ways of being a professor, such as those that involve “required” forms of service that do not “detract” from official responsibilities. In contrast, it does not often value research that explores alternative ways to know or alternative ways to write, or teaching that explores alternatives meanings of “teaching” and “learning,” or service endeavors that explore alternative ways of impacting schools and local communities. And this is the case, despite the decades of research that points to the oppressions already in play in academia, including in these common and commonsense approaches to research, teaching, and service. “Being” a college or university professor often requires repeating what others have already asserted to be the best or most important ways to research, teach, and serve, which do not often center explicitly on issues of social justice. Sometimes informally and sometimes not, standards of higher education often suggest that being a professor who focuses on challenging different forms of oppression is a pretty queer way to be. There is something significant, then, about the “queer” in education. There is something significantly disruptive about those educational practices that some in society want to silence. This is where I find much value in queer theory. I find that queer theory has much to offer those of us working to change the fields of educational research and practice in our movements toward social justice. It is not without tension that I draw on queer theory, especially as an activist committed to challenging multiple forms of oppression in schools and society. A number of activists and academics have suggested that the term “queer,” when used as a term of self-empowerment, does not apply to some people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersexed, such as those who are also of color. They tell us that the politics surrounding queer identities and movements may be working to trouble the normalcy of certain social markers like gender and sexual orientation, but are simultaneously reinforcing the marginalization of other markers like race. The result is that groups traditionally privileged in mainstream society remain privileged even in marginalized and activist communities, as with White Americans in queer movements. Queer politics is too often colored by Eurocentrism. This should not be surprising– eurocentrism (as with other “isms”) is often the norm in countless aspects of our lives, and its everydayness or commonsense nature makes it difficult to be recognized, much less challenged, no matter what the context. Challenging the multiple oppressions in our lives requires challenging the many norms that privilege and marginalize different groups or simply different ways of being. Even queer movements have internal work to do, and perhaps always will. After all, queer politics are all about disrupting what has become “normal.” Queer politics do not only celebrate difference, as when asserting that, Yes, we are queer and are not what society says is normal. Queer politics also critique the standards that define certain things as “different” in the first place, as when asserting that, No, we do not even want to be “normal” because society’s definition of normal is a pretty oppressive way to be. And this does not only apply to sex and sexuality. The bases for critiquing what is normal (everyday) and normative (required) may have arisen in response to the ways that “alternative” sexual orientations and gender expressions get called “queer,” but there do exist many forms of oppression that define certain things as the norm and all other things as queer. In fact, queer politics are premised on the notion that norms of society require the existence of things queer. Some things cannot be normal if other things are not already abnormal. Queerness is not a natural state of being. Rather, queerness is produced as a contrast, as that against which normalcy is established. This production of queerness is always happening. Even our work within queer politics–from our theorizing to our street activism–cannot help but normalize only certain identities or ideas or practices while defining all others as too queer. Little effort is required to find instances of things that seem too queer even for queer politics, as when “we” do not want to address certain sexual practices or racialized bodies or other differences because they will “detract” from our goals. Queer movements can marginalize certain ways of being (too) queer even while challenging the marginalization of other ways of being (acceptably) queer. Our work, then, is quite paradoxical: it constitutes movements that both challenge and contribute to different forms of oppression. It requires constantly problematizing the ways that we may unintentionally normalize only certain ways of being queer. It prevents us from thinking that our identities or our work or our end products are ever fully “queer,” and instead insists that we see queerness as ideals that never solidify because, once grasped, they tend towards normalcy. As I bring these insights to bear on the troubling movements in U.S. schools, I am reminded of the importance of embracing the paradoxical nature of challenging oppression. As teachers and learners, we need to examine how all approaches to teaching and learning are partial, including those approaches that center on social justice. We need to examine how the things we learn can be useful for improving our lives as well as how they can contribute to oppression in often invisible ways. And we need to examine both the normalizing and the queering of what and how we teach, and why this might be the case. I feel discomforted by the notion that queer movements in education should never end, and yet, such a realization is exactly what gives me hope for a future less colored by oppression.
====Cede the Political Uniqueness==== 
Nonunique—the political was ceded long ago
Elia 4 (John, 3/10/04, Assistant Professor of Health Education at San Francisco State University, “Queering Relationships: Toward a Paradigmatic Shift” Queer Theory and Communication: From Disciplining Queers to Queering the Discipline p.65, MH)
In addition to various laws–which are inextricably linked to, and often result from, the dominant U.S. political system and other U.S. institutions, for that matter–mainstream politics have exerted enormous pressure to maintain the status quo as far as sexual matters are concerned. Gore Vidal (1983) states, “The sexual attitudes of any given society are the result of political decisions” (p. 152). Politics are a part of our very existence, and create, support and perpetuate dominant culture. The fiercely debated issues such as equal rights, abortion, homosexuality, sexuality education, and so on “. . . are hot issues that affect not only the political process but the private lives of millions of people” (Vidal, 1983, p. 150). Politics, then, contribute substantially to the conservative status quo agenda.

====Links==== 
=====General Hegemony===== 
Militarism is rooted in Hegemonic masculinity—legitimizes militaristic violence
Hopton 03 (John Hopton is currently a Senior Lecturer in Social Work and have been at the University of Manchester since December 1995. I am a member of the History of Health and Social Care Reseach Group within the School of Nursing Midwifery and Social Work and am also the Programme Director for the BA Social Work. He is also a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy. Edited by Paul Higate, who is a Senior Lecturer in Politics at the University of Bristol. Prior to that, he spent eight years in the Royal Air Force, before becoming involved in critical military sociology. Since then, his academic research has focused on various aspects of the gendered culture of the military. “Military Masculinities” Chapter 8 “The State and Military Masculinity” pages 111-113)
I was born in England in 1956 and have lived there all my life. I have never seen any form of military service and have never worked for the Ministry of Defence. I have never lived in or even visited a military base. Indeed, the closest I have ever come to military culture is learning how to march and drill when I was in the junior section of the Boys' Brigade for three or four years. Furthermore, because all Britain's wars during my lifetime have been fought entirely on foreign soil, I have no firsthand experience of warfare of any kind. Nevertheless, although I have strong sympathies with pacifist politics and am repulsed by warmongering politicians, I am fascinated by military culture and admit to sometimes admiring soldiers for some of the work they are expected to do. I am also impressed by the actions of soldiers and other armed forces personnel who distinguish themselves in battle. Furthermore, I am aware that some of my own ideas about what it means to be masculine, to be a man, have been shaped by ideologies of militarism. Yet, those aspects of military culture that celebrate the use of lethal violence and glamorize war disturb me. In this chapter I explore the cultural influences that have informed my contradictory attitudes toward militarism and discuss how those cultural influences may be beginning to change. There are four central themes to this chapter. First, militarist ideals represent the most extreme expression of the values of what Connell terms hegemonic masculinity.1 Second, although state militarist policies are most evident in saber-rattling foreign policy, there are also more subtle militarist influences on public policy that are particularly evident in debates about law and order. Third, state militarist policies have traditionally played a major role in promoting and reinforcing ideologies that shape popular conceptions of what it means to be masculine and manipulate such ideologies to gain support 112 for use of violence by the state. Fourth, the 1990s represented a turning point in the relationship between masculinity and militarism as women service personnel became better integrated into the culture, structure, and role of the armed services while the collapse of the Soviet bloc and new technologies transformed the nature of warfare. Writers who have developed critiques of masculinity suggest that there is a form of masculine identity (hegemonic masculinity) that boys and men are generally encouraged to aspire to.2 This form of masculinity is characterized by the interrelationship of stoicism,3 phallocentricity and the domination of weaker individuals,4 competitiveness and heroic achievement.5 Thus, men who exemplify this model of masculinity tend to be accorded a higher social status than those who do not.6 By publicly demonstrating that he has at least the potential to conform to this model of masculinity, a boy or man may have his masculinity affirmed. Military organizations, military successes, military pageantry, and rituals such as the "passing out" parades for successful recruits to the armed forces represent the public endorsement of such values and their institutionalization in national culture. Certainly, there exist other manifestations of this process of celebrating masculinity, but uniquely the exploits of the military are always openly and aggressively celebrated in the public sphere. Indeed, there are echoes of militarism in everyday language. For example, "Dunkirk spirit"? is a shorthand term for expressing admiration for someone's unwillingness to accept defeat; whereas someone who is finally defeated after a lengthy struggle may be said to have "met their Waterloo."8 Furthermore, boys encounter many militarist influences during their childhood and adolescence. Although there are exceptions to the rule,9 uniformed youth organizations for boys tend to explicitly reflect military culture. For example, the organization, uniforms, and culture of the Boy Scout movement reflect the military background of its founder, Robert Baden-Powell. Similarly, from the very beginning, military-style drilling was a core activity of the Boys' Brigade to the extent that its founder, William Smith, originally introduced wooden dummy rifles into these activities. Whereas the use of wooden rifles was abandoned relatively early on in the Boys' Brigade's history, drilling remained a core activity within a military structure of brigade, battalions, and companies together with a quasi-military hierarchy of officers and non-commissioned officers retained to this day.lO More explicitly, the various army, air, and sea cadet forces in Britain, which offer young people opportunities to participate in many adventure activities and sports at low cost,11 are supported by the Ministry of Defence. These and other similar organizations have played a key role in exporting a culture equating masculinity and militarism from the public schools, where the link between militarism and 113 masculinity first became institutionalized,12 to boys from the middle and working classe5.B Although not all boys and men will ever have any connection with uniformed youth organizations such as the Boy Scouts or the Boys' Brigade, most will be aware of the cultural values such organizations promote. For example, they will probably develop social and professional relationships with men who have been associated with such organizations and internalized at least some of the values they promote. Thus, a shared understanding of masculinity will be influenced by these values.
====ILAW==== 
Representing international law as weakened and needing to live up to responsibilities creates the law as a family man. Identifying the problem as one of masculinity changes the way we look for solutions.
Buss 7 (Doris, Associate Professor of Law at Carleton University, 3/29/07, “Queering International Legal Authority”, Queering International Law, p. 6-7, MH)
International law’s crisis is understood in gendered terms. Metaphors of masculinity, and its failings, are peppered throughout the Agora. The overwhelming image is of an emasculated international law, although the contributors diverge on the source of this emasculation. For some,8 international law’s possible irrelevance results from its own institutional lack of ‘‘collective spine.’’ Others9 see an ‘‘enormously weakened’’ international law, with a history of ‘‘ineffectual responses’’ to the scourge and ravages of international bad men. Many contributors paint a picture of a world that ‘‘is a dangerous, unruly, far too lightly managed and policed place.’’10 Against the dark, rogue masculinity of the world’s ‘‘bad men,’’ the ‘‘fragile normative structure’’11 of international law has been dealt a further blow by the Bush Administration. For Thomas Franck, ‘‘the fig leaf of legal justification’’ for use of force has been ‘‘all but discarded.’’12 And herein lies the real crisis as depicted in the Agora: what will international law do in the face of this challenge to its authority, with its masculine pretensions—and failings—now on display for all to see? If, as the Agora contributors imply, international law in its ‘‘weakened and ineffectual’’ persona has just had sand kicked in its face by the bully on the beach (the Bush Administration), does it have the masculine fortitude to respond? The Agora contributors diverge on what a remasculated international law looks like. Ruth Wedgwood’s contribution echoes current conceptions of international law and its future. Wedgwood argues a promising future awaits, one where international law—quoting Kofi Annan—‘‘faces its responsibilities’’ and is ‘‘strengthened by commitments to human rights and democracy.’’13 To get to this brighter future, international law must change course; it must, says Wedgwood, ‘‘rise to the occasion’’ to ‘‘retain its authority.’’14 This language of responsibility and the more satisfying masculinity of a proactive international law is, of course, much in vogue and calls to mind examples like the Canadian government’s campaign for the ‘‘responsibility to protect’’ doctrine. Even U.S. President George Bush uses the language of responsibility to justify American use of force in the Middle East.15 Responsibility, particularly as it is invoked in the use-of-force context, anchors a new vision of international law’s authority in terms reminiscent of Koskenniemi’s Law the Father. The reinvigorated international law that ‘‘rises to the occasion’’ and ‘‘lives up to its responsibilities’’ is a new age law; sensitive, caring, but responsible. This is Law the Family Man. While the Agora contributions can be read as entrenched in and constitutive of gendered expectations of authority and responsibility, they also reflect a heteronormative world view. International law may be struggling to express its masculine authority, but the challenges facing international law, as depicted in the Agora, only take shape as crises when placed within the iconography of the nuclear family. That is, the threats to the future of international law, the gaps in its normative reach, become critical when constituting a threat to the authority of Law the Father. And if convictions about international law’s crises are rooted in heteronormative ways of understanding, then the subsequent debates about the future of international law may be similarly tethered to a vision of responsible patrimony.

====Private Sector weakness/Space Race/Missile Gap==== 
Calls for a stronger space program, decries of the private sector failure, and fear of a general lack fix space policy into a masculine heteronomrative framework
Griffin 9 (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, p. 63, MH)
As critics increasingly condemned Eisenhower’s apparently passive and unconcerned leadership for being ‘old-fashioned’ and ‘out of touch’ (McDougall 1985:7), a particular political discourse began to emerge in the US, founded on a certain type of sexual metaphor and the assertion of virile, heterosexual masculinity, led by Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. These were both men heavily indoctrinated in the myths and ethos of patriotic frontier masculinity, and who placed at the heart of their politics the virtue of capturing the New Frontier. This reshaping of masculinity, alluding to the ‘pioneer’ adventurers of the old ‘Wild West’ but heavily predicated on mastering the technologies of space exploration, rejected the apparent discoordination of the private sector and the stagnancy of consumerism that, many believed, had caused complacency and heaped embarrassment on the US. Just as the American West had signalled freedom and a virile optimism to expansive, US frontier masculinity (see Hooper 2001:68–69), so the conquest and colonization of space provided a suitably challenge-filled outlet to revive the frustrated masculinity of late 1950s America. In all this, US political discourse was fuelled by a fear of emasculation through Soviet achievement and a national paranoia that the US might be perceived, by others and itself, as in any sense weak, complacent, showing any kind of ‘missile gap’, or aspect of ‘lack’. Eisenhower’s more careful and restrained approach was quickly replaced with Kennedy’s cult of masculine prowess, a career premised, as Dean articulates, on an ‘ideology of masculinity’ constructed around culturally resonant images of the ‘stoic warrior-intellectual’ (Dean 2001:169). The late 1950s was a period of massive US self-doubt, propelled by what Michaud refers to as ‘a surge of discourses on emasculation and feminized conformity’ (2005:4). Kennedy’s assertion (written in The Nation, before he announced he was to run for his party’s nomination to presidential candidate), that the US had ‘gone soft: physically, mentally, spiritually soft’; that the US was ‘in danger of losing our will to fight, to sacrifice, to endure’ and that the ‘slow corrosion of luxury is beginning to show’, found great sway across America, an assertion, as Dean illustrates, of manly strength against feminized weakness, youth against age, stoic austerity against debilitating luxury (2001:170). Kennedy’s immediate focus on the ‘space gap’ signaled the announcement of a more militaristically virile engagement. Space exploration thus became a central policy tenet of the Kennedy government, with the operation to get a US astronaut on the Moon a means of reasserting US authority and avenging any doubts as to the administration’s ability to perform. While the USSR operated a single military space programme, tending to classify many of the (at least earlier) processes of its development of space technology, the US elected a different approach, one that intentionally and actively separated the public and private of space colonization through the creation of so-called ‘civilian’ programmes (ostensibly, more open to the public) run by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), such as the Apollo 11 mission to the Moon, and the more secretive

====Environment==== 
What environmental imapcts are important? The affirmative presents you with a hierarchy of environmental importance. This hierarchy produces a world wherein homosexuals and non-whites are toxic. This epistemology tragically mirrors the worst colonialist genocides. Their strategy destroys the potential for coalition building.
Gosine 10 (Andil, Associate Professor of Sociology at York, 4/28/2010, “Non-white Reproduction and Same-Sex Eroticism: Queer Acts against Nature”, Queer ecologies: sex, nature, politics, desire, p.155-9, MH)
The denunciation of homosexuality shares much in common with the attacks on the fertility and potentially reproductive sexualities of non-white men and women. First, nature stands in for nation in both narratives, an easy epistemological substitution, as nations have the same requirements as “healthy environments”: reproductive species and resistance to the incursions of foreign bodies. As Sarah Ahmed suggests, “a good or healthy neighbourhood [or nation] does not leak outside itself, and hence does not let outsiders (or foreign agents/viruses) in” (2000, 25). There is, she adds, “no body as such that is given in the world: bodies materialize in a complex set of temporal and spatial relations to other bodies, including bodies that are recognized as familiar and friendly, and those that are considered strange” (40). In white nationalist projects, including European colonization, homosexuals and non-white reproductive heterosexuals are “strange”; they make no contribution to the building and expansion of—and in fact threaten—white nations. Their significance derives instead from their manifestations of oppositional subjects, as the Others through whom the white subject can make sense of himself (for the “normal” human subject is always a biological male), and upon whom anxieties about identity may be focused. The articulation of nature within a white, nationalist framework, furthermore, produces homosexuals and non-whites as not just strange, but toxic. Working with Ahmed’s theorization of nationalism, Berila points out that “who and what counts as toxic is . . . deeply contested ground” (2005, 130). “Since the bodies of particular others, usually people of color, queers, women, or people from other nations, are repeatedly targeted as threats to the nation,” she adds, “the reading of which bodies are marked as toxic seems particularly important in any discussion of the landscapes of nation and national identity” (130). Nationalism is always predicated on racialized heterosexuality, as the survival of nations demands the reproduction of bodies. It is for this reason that women have been regarded in nationalist discourses as objects of both reverence and slippage; they are biological reproducers of the nation, but any sexual transgressions on their part (lesbianism, interracial sex) mean that they also threaten its survival (Anthias, Yuval-Davis, and Cain 1992). The most expansive project of white nationalism, the colonization of North America, has been deeply informed by and achieved through the generation of responses to anxieties about homosexuality and the sexual liberties of non-white heterosexuals. Historian Ned Katz notes that “the widespread homosexuality of the North American Indians was given as an excuse by the invading whites for their extermination” and “the Christianization of Native Americans and the colonial appropriation of the continent by white, Western ‘civilization’ included the attempt by the conquerors to eliminate various traditional forms of
Indian homosexuality—as part of their attempt to destroy that Native culture that might fuel resistance—a form of cultural genocide involving both Americans and Gay people” (quoted in Gaard 1998, 33). White homosexual subjects betrayed the nation’s reproductive imperative. The threat of non-white homosexual subjects to the nation was differently rationalized. They were problematic by virtue of their apparent potential to attract and “homo-sexualize” whites. Stoler notes that during the colonial period, “desires for opulence and sex, wealth and excess were repeatedly attributed to creole Dutch and lower-class Europeans, to those with culturally hybrid affiliations and/or of mixed-blood origin.” Natives and these “fictive” Europeans, Stoler adds, were “persons ruled by their sexual desires” (1995, 183). The “homosexual native” and the “native woman” represented temptation, and threatened to unravel the European’s self-discipline, unleashing his darkest fantasies. These anxieties laid the groundwork for the theories of racialization that would emerge in the nineteenth century, such as those posited by Count Gobineau in his “Essay on the Equality of Races.” Gobineau’s core argument was that it was the white races who are inclined to be sexually attracted toward the other races, which is why they mix with them, while yellow and brown races were deemed to have a stronger repulsion to interracial sex, which is why, he says, they tended to remain relatively unmixed (quoted in Young 1995, 107). Indeed, nineteenth-century theories of race did not just consist of essentializing differentiations between self and other but also were, as Young points out, broadly about “a fascination with people having sex—interminable, adulterating, aleatory, illicit, inter-racial sex” (181). Such racial theory, Young argues, “projected a phantasmagoria of the desiring machine [of colonialism] as a people factory.” There were great fears about uncontrollable, frenetic fornication producing the countless motley varieties of interbreeding, with the miscegenated offspring themselves then generating an ever increasing melange, “mongrelity,” of self-propagating endlessly diversifying hybrid progeny: half-blood, half-caste, half-breed, cross-breed, amalgamate, intermix, miscegenate, alvino, cabre, cafuso, castizo, cholo, chino, cob, creole, dustee, fustee, griffe, mamaluco. (181) Subsequent to the fall of European empires, these anxieties took new shape as anti-immigration discourses (“Yellow Fever,” “Asian Invasion,” etc.) and, as already noted, overpopulation propaganda. More recently, postindustrial concerns about environmental degradation have provided another prism through which xenophobia and racism could be articulated as environmental prudence. But make no mistake about it: Calls by groups such as the Sierra Club (U.S.)—some of them made as recently as 2006—to curb immigration and regulate the sexual reproduction of people in the Global South are merely a restatement of white nationalist ideals as a commitment to nature. This analysis is supported by research demonstrating North American environmentalists’ commitment to white nationalist constructions of nature. As Noël Sturgeon points out, mainstream environmentalists, in their emphasis on wilderness, species extinction, and in general seeing the environment as excluding human beings, often fall into service to this dominant Western logic of seeing the natural as pure, unchanging, untainted by social influence and without history. This kind of mainstream environmentalism avoids environmental justice issues, which deal primarily with problems of human and community health using a broader, less reified definition of the environment and identifying power relations as central to the cause of environmental problems. (2004, 263) Nature needs protection, this logic forwards, from the toxic presence of non-white bodies. Coverage of arrests of men engaged in or looking for sex in natural spaces similarly reveals nature’s parallel constitution (with nation) as a pure space that must be protected from the incursions of toxic homosexuals. One commonly employed strategy toward this effect has been to equate sex with pollution, and to focus on the litter and damage to the environment produced by homosexual acts. A news report filed by Sarah Lemagie for the Star Tribune on the Minnesota arrests provides one illustration of this approach. Lemagie begins the article by associating gay sex with garbage. “The trash-strewn pulloffs along the Minnesota River hardly look like Lovers’ Lane,” she notes, “but to Burnsville police who have been tracking lewd behavior between men there, that’s basically what they’ve become.” Writing about a popular cruising spot at Maple Grove, she quotes an officer who makes note of the damage men seeking sex inflict on the environment and litter they leave behind. “Men loitered in cars or at picnic benches and retreated in pairs to the bushes,” where officers found mattresses and “condoms by the hundreds,” she reports him as saying. In Canada, an article about male cruising in Stanley Park that appeared in the Vancouver Sun in 2001 reported, “Venture down one of the well-worn side paths into the trees and you can’t miss it. The soggy ground is carpeted with used condoms, their wrappers, and tissues, the tell-tale remnants of what is widely known in the male gay community as park sex” (Zacharias 2001, A1). A June 2007 story appearing in the National Post repeated this association of homosexual sex with pollution of natural space, and condemned police for not taking punitive action. “Visitors to one part of famous Stanley Park may stumble upon men engaged in fellatio and intercourse,” columnist Brian Hutchinson noted, “yet cruising areas, littered with used condoms and cigarette butts, seem sacrosanct” (Hutchison 2007, A1). Similarly, a report filed by Peter Baker for the Essex Chronicle focuses on the outrage expressed by Brian Olley in encountering homosexual acts taking place in Hylands Park. According to the article, park user Brian Olley “exercises his dog in Hylands by walking from his nearby home twice a day” (2006, 11). Although he had often seen “vehicles with male occupants park outside the main gate [to the Hylands]” on most evenings, he was “shocked to come across two men having sex on a path he used to walk his dog by the park’s edge” (11). Olley, Barker reports, has noticed “there is unsavoury litter around the entrance area” frequented by men looking for sex. The Hylands estate manager is also quoted as saying, “The condoms and tissues presumably get deposited on the highway and in lay-bys” (11). This littering of parks is akin to “dirtying the nation,” particularly in light of the historical constitution of parks as part of white nation-building. More recently, moral dangers about both homosexuality and non-white reproductive heterosexuality have been stated through the production of ecological discourses. In Malthusian renderings of environmentalism, the planet’s demise is linked to the immoral ravishes of the polluting underclass. Sandilands notes that population discourse “relies on the bifurcation of the world into two: ‘good’ ecological citizens, who have listened to and understood the call for limits and do not require (further) regulatory intervention, and unruly bodies, who have not, might not and/or do not” (1999, 86). Nature has similarly been used as a means of production and site of moral regulation against homosexual sex, such as in the representation of public sex as polluting. Sandilands explains, “Bulldozing the trees or pulling up the undergrowth in a downtown park can be as much a threat to the public expression of gay male culture as it is to urban nature, and polluting a beach that acts as a center for outdoor lesbian activity can destroy both biotic and social communities” (2001, 175). Sandilands concludes that mainstream environmentalism, such as that involved in the creation of urban parks, “includes a strong historical tradition of marginalizing sexual expression; in order to approach moral purity, sexuality was excluded” (Ingram, quoted in Sandilands 2001, 176). A 2005 U.S. Department of Justice guidebook entitled Illicit Sexual Activity in Public Places, produced by the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, makes clear the equation of immoral with environmental transgressions insofar as homosexuality is concerned. Issued as part of a series that aims to “summarize knowledge about how police can reduce the harm caused by specific crime and disorder problems” (v)


====Competition==== 
Ceding to competitions and attempts to become the epitome of masculinity uphold heteronormativity
Yep 4 (Gust, Professor of Speech and Communication Studies and Human Sexuality Studies at San Francisco State University, 3/10/04, The Violence of Heteronormativity in Communication Studies: Notes on Injury, Healing, and Queer World-Making, Queer Theory and Communication: From Disciplining Queers to Queering the Discipline, p.20-1, MH)
Heterosexuality constitutes men as “real” men (Wittig, 1992). To be a “real” man is an exhausting and unending performance, or as Michael Kimmel (2001) puts it, “that nightmare from which we never seem to awaken” (p. 277). Homophobia and the fear of being perceived as gay become the central organizing principle and the cultural policing of manhood. The fear of humiliation and emasculation keeps “real”men afraid, ashamed to be afraid, and silent about their own fears (Kimmel, 2001). Fear and shame are sites of psychic violence for these men. In addition, on the level of sexual practice, MacGillivray notes, “there is harm, since I for one would suggest that heterosexuality is based on a repression of all unsanctioned sexual impulses, whichmost–if not all–of us feel” (Thomas& MacGillivray, 2000, p. 257). In sum, heteronormativity impels heterosexual men into a lifelong labor of “proving” their manhood and concealing, if not banishing, a range of sexual possibilities, gender performances, and pleasures.

Their impact framing pleas to dominant ideas about what is normal and what matters. Queering ecological thinking detoxifies knowledge production and offer the best political solution.
DiChiro 10 (Giovanna, Research Associate at the Five College Women's Studies Research Center, 4/28/2010, “Polluted Politics? Confronting Toxic Discourse, Sex Panic, and Eco-Normativity”, Queer ecologies: sex, nature, politics, desire, p.224-5, MH)
Environmental theory and politics in the United States have historically mobilized ideas of the normal, or what Rosemarie Garland-Thomson refers to as “the normate,” that is, “the social figure through which people can represent themselves as definitive human beings” (1997, 8), to determine which bodies and environments/landscapes embody the distinctly American values of productive work, rugged individualism, masculinity, independence, potency, and moral virtue, upon which environmental advocacy movements should be based (e.g., Haraway 1989; Cronon 1991). Critical histories of U.S. environmentalism have revealed the capitalist, patriarchal, colonialist, heteronormative, eugenicist, and ableist histories underlying its “progressive” exterior (e.g., Boag 2003; Darnovsky 1992; Evans 2002; Gaard 2004; Jaquette 2005; Sutter 2001). In this chapter, I have examined the residues of what I have called eco-normativity (or, eco[hetero]normativity) that appear in the alarmist discourse of the anti-toxics arm of the environmental movement, residues that, I argue, appeal to pre-existing cultural norms of gender balance, normal sexual reproduction, and the balance of nature. The deployment of the anti-normal or anti-natural in anti-toxic discourse is questionable political-ecological strategy and can work to reinforce the dominant social and economic order (the forces actually behind environmental destruction and toxic contamination of all our bodies and environments) by naturalizing the multiple injustices that shore it up. In short, this unexamined toxic discourse produces polluted politics even while claiming to stand for diversity and justice. I have also examined feminist and environmental justice challenges to normal environmentalism, which, I argue, are queering ecological thinking and creating new possibilities for genuine coalition politics with the aim of disrupting the social power of eco-normativity. The question remains: Can the environmental coalitions we develop succeed in calling for stronger environmental protections, the right to a healthy body, and the need for sustainable communities in such a way that resists appeals to normalcy and normativity? And, furthermore, can our coalitions be capacious enough to embrace and care for all community members (human and nonhuman) even in their “irrevocable difference” (Clare 2001, 361)? In closing, I return to Clare’s creative politics of articulation, in which he links queer and disability theorists’ critiques of the compulsions of heterosexuality and able-bodiedness together with the environmental justice movement’s redefining of nature and environment as “community” and “home.” While those bodies, communities, and environments that stray from the “normate” may be hated, impoverished, and poisoned, Clare maintains that seeing and knowing from non-normate positions may offer outsider views for imagining new, just, and sustainable ways of living on the earth—our home. “And as for the lies and false images, we need to name them, transform them, create something entirely new in their place, something that comes close and finally true to the bone, entering our bodies as liberation, joy fury, hope, a will to refigure the world. The body as home” (12).

The call to protect the environment and ecologies resonate with historical environmentalist eugenics attempts by America against Native Americans. Violent dictatorships like Nazi Germany historically model American violent policy and create conditions for catastrophe.
Hogan 10 (Katie, Professor of English and Director of Women’s Studies at Carlow University, 7/14/2010, “Undoing Nature: Coalition Building as Queer Environemtnalism”, Queer ecologies: sex, nature, politics, desire, p234-5, MH)
Ordover singles out the rash of anti-gay ballot measures of the early 1990s—I will be focusing on one of these campaigns in this chapter—as contemporary examples of eugenics- like discourses of the late twentieth century. Ordover also points to scientific and medical research into the alleged “gay gene” as a medical instance of a contemporary eugenics-like project. And although Ordover does not devalue mainstream environmental movements, she nevertheless demonstrates how these movements can be cannibalized by eugenics ideas, evident in the current “greening of hate” phenomenon that has emerged in the last decade. For instance, some members of local chapters of the mainstream environmental group the Sierra Club have created alliances with anti-immigrant campaigners to oust immigrants from the United States on the grounds that they are environmental threats; the rhetoric of “protecting nature,” repeatedly evoked, resonates with a eugenics ideology (Ordover 2003, 50, also Hartman 2006). In other words, eugenics and environmentalism, while not one and the same, have been historically linked as projects that operate in tandem, rather than in opposition, and often in terms of ideas of the unfit and unnatural. Perhaps one of the most disturbing examples of nature as a platform for eugenics purposes is analyzed in Bruggemeier, Cioc, and Zeller’s volume, How the Green Were the Nazis: Nature, Environment, and Nation in the Third Reich (2005). Using the lens of environmental history to shed light on the Nazi’s manipulations of environmental preservation programs as a cover for racial genocide, the essays in this collection address annexation of lands in Eastern Europe in an effort to “Germanize” the landscape. To implement these programs German officials relocated and/or exterminated those communities deemed inferior, unfit, and insufficiently Aryan to live on German land. Although the collection does not directly analyze connections between American eugenics and Nazi environmentalism, several essays do link America’s eugenics-like programs, including the United States’ seemingly innocent program of building national parks, as an aspect of purity and nationalism campaigns that later inspired Nazi environmental policies. For instance, the Nazis took inspiration from the United States’ extermination and relocation of Native peoples from lands in order to create national parks and control natural resources. Of course, the Nazis took things further; they cleansed the unfit throughout Eastern Europe in order to purify the German landscape, but they made the link between land, nation, and unfit/unnatural by studying U.S. policies. These theoretical and historical perspectives on environmentalism serve as dramatic instances of how, in the name of nature, racial eugenics ideologies are reformulated as caring for the environment. Nature and environmentalism are categories that are uniquely susceptible to this kind of exploitation because these categories are often assumed to be benign, neutral, or innocent. Yet the disturbing links between eugenics and environmentalism in modern history suggest how “everyday eugenics” masquerades as ecological preservation.

The 1AC decided in their impact framing that the groups of people who were bearing the brunt of climate change didn’t matter. This focus causes a direct tradeoff with a strategy of environmental justice which is comparatively better at preventing ecological ethnocide.
Sturgeon 10 (Noel, Ph.D. in History of Consciousness, Professor of Women’s Studies at Washington State University, “ Penguin Family Values: The Nature of Planetary Environmental Reproductive Justice”, Queer ecologies: sex, nature, politics, desire, p.118-123, MH)
It is interesting that in the face of this popular cultural emphasis on the negative environmental effects of climate change on animal reproduction and hence survival, there is little mention of people’s reproduction and survival; where this issue appears, it often only stresses problematic ideas about particular people’s supposed over-reproduction. Missing from the popular culture arena, for the most part, is any attention to the immediate threat to numerous groups of people especially vulnerable to climate change by reason of geography, poverty, or political discrimination. The use of a group of people as a symbol of endangered species is uncomfortable for the authors of popular culture (as it should be), partly because it calls up questions of unequal responsibility and unequal consequences that are difficult to deal with in the arena of popular culture as entertainment. Both recent global warming documentaries mentioned above, Gore’s and Brokaw’s, use images of penguins and polar bears to dramatize the consequences of melting polar ice, but neither mentions the impact of climate change on Arctic indigenous peoples, one of the groups of people already most seriously impacted by climate change. I juxtapose this story with the story of the Emperor penguins with trepidation, since indigenous people are not penguins, and endangered tribal cultures are not endangered species. Seeing indigenous people as endangered species and thus equating them with animals is dangerous because such depictions can be racist.7 Such a parallel re-enacts the questionable trope of the “disappearing Indian,” a dominant narrative that discounts and obscures the struggle of real indigenous peoples to exist and successfully transform their cultures strategically for survival. Arctic indigenous tribes may be threatened by climate change, but they are resilient and experienced in resisting threats to their people. As Chickaloon Grand Chief Gary Harrison says in Through Arctic Eyes (2005), a movie documenting the effects of climate change on Arctic indigenous people: “We’ve adapted in the past, which is why we are still here.” Yet as a story about the environmental politics of reproduction, the ways in which cultural reproduction needs to be valued as much as biological reproduction, the relation of planetary reproduction to human reproduction, and the need to comprehend human beings as embedded in environmental systems on which they are dependent, the experience of the indigenous peoples of the Arctic region needs to be more widely known.8 As many sources note, because of the rigors of survival in Arctic areas, Arctic native peoples are necessarily close to an environment that is particularly sensitive to the effects of climate change, a region tied to the global ecological system in so many intricate ways that changes in the Arctic have worldwide consequences. Rather than seeing themselves as an endangered species, vulnerable and helpless, Arctic First Nations have been politically active in publicizing the problem of global climate change and suggesting solutions for many years before other people paid attention to the issue.9 They have known that the threats they face to their culture and livelihoods are early warnings for the threats people around the world will face. Patricia Cochran, former chairperson of the Inuit Circumpolar Council, points out the worldwide implications of what Arctic First Peoples are experiencing now: “All of this will have a profound impact on the viability of indigenous cultures throughout the North, and further afield. Everything is connected in nature; what happens in Alaska will affect all other places of the world as a cascading effect, as scientists call it, will occur” (Cochran 2007). I learned something about what the indigenous Arctic peoples are facing during an event sponsored by the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C., in October 2005. As part of a celebration of all things Arctic, which spotlighted its excellent collection of Arctic art and animals and publicized its support of research on the Arctic, the Smithsonian Museum organized a panel primarily of Yu’pik people on the topic of global warming and its effect on their lives and their land. Between the morning and afternoon performances of Native Arctic dancers, who drummed and sang under the watchful eye of the preserved African elephant in the main lobby, an audience gathered in the auditorium to listen to the panel, whose title was based on a indigenous description of the crisis: “The Earth Is Moving Faster Now” (Krupnik and Jolly 2002). The title referred to the fact that global climate change has had a measurable impact on the lives of these indigenous people for a number of years. Over 8 percent of the sea ice has melted, with severe consequences for marine life, caribou herds (because migration patterns are disrupted), and coastal villages (because sea ice creates a buffer for coastal settlements against large waves). Increased thunderstorms and lightning cause more forest fires. Dangerous levels of UV radiation cause increased incidence of skin cancer and damage to eyesight. Ecological stress and disruption to traditional plant and animal food sources force a turn to a diet of store-bought foods that cause diabetes (Krupnik and Jolly 2002; Mercredi 2005). On the Smithsonian panel, Cristina Alava, a Yu’pik elder and teacher, spoke about the difficulty of bringing back edible meat from long distance hunting trips if the weather continued to warm. As the permafrost melts earlier and freezes later, it becomes very difficult to transport meat over the softened tundra and to keep the large carcasses cold enough so they don’t rot before getting to the hunters’ families. Orville Huntington, an Athabascan employee of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, showed slides of the ice retreating and talked about the “silence of the moose” in the region, as their seasonal travels are disrupted by the changing climate. Huntington emphasized the depth and complexity of indigenous knowledge about the area, and the possibility of losing this knowledge along with the animals and the ice. Harry Brower Jr., a indigenous whaler, scientist, and subsistence hunter, also spoke about the ways in which subsistence living is part of cultural survival and an important method for keeping the world in balance. Other panelists echoed this theme, describing the Yu’pik understanding of the way in which the environment is part of a larger universe with moral and cultural aspects that are maintained by the practices of indigenous peoples who have lived on the land for thousands of years.
One of the striking aspects of the discourse of the panelists was their insistence on speaking as knowledgeable experts based on their own cultural expertise, their beliefs and experience as indigenous people, even when they mentioned along the way that some of them had degrees in biology and wildlife management and/or worked in the fields of education and literacy. It was crucially important for them to try to get across to the audience that their knowledge arose from their way of life, which similarly was embedded in the environment, and that this interdependence of cultural identity, expert knowledge, land, and animal existence was at the brink of extermination from global warming. In contrast, the white scientists who introduced and commented on the panel consistently referred to the indigenous panelists as community members and artisans, rather than scientists and researchers, undercutting their status as experts. The point the indigenous panelists were making, however, was that the extensive knowledge they had about sustainable practices, whether it was supported by scientific expertise or traditional experience, was knowledge that arose from a particular way of life, one that needed to be respected and maintained. It was not knowledge gained from the mystical identity of being Ecological Indians, but was rather sophisticated information needed now by all those, indigenous or not, trying to understand and redress climate change. In contrast, the panelists implied, an industrialized and consumer economy’s dependencies on nonrenewable fuels, emission-producing technologies, mobility, and manufactured goods were not just unsustainable, but gave those who lived in these ways false understandings of the way material, life-sustaining practices worked. Material practices of reproduction and production have epistemological implications; that is, they affect what we know and how we know it. We are all, like the penguins, suited or not suited to particular ecological contexts, and living without respect for those contexts has consequences. Worse, from the perspective of the indigenous panelists, global capitalist industrialized ways of living and (not) knowing threaten the existing knowledge base needed to live in sustainable ways, not least because the cultural existence of indigenous people is threatened. The worst example of white condescension and willful misapprehension of the point being made by these indigenous experts was the introduction to the event by a retired white Alaskan politician. While acknowledging the likelihood that indigenous Arctic cultures are being irreversibly changed by global climate change, he referred admiringly to the idea that an ice sculpture is made more beautiful because it is transient and proudly pointed out that the state of Alaska had made computers available to tribal villages in order to allow native artisans to more effectively sell their crafts in a global economy. From his point of view, this was a sufficient way to preserve Native Alaskan culture in the face of what he clearly accepted as the inevitable “transience” of their existence and their way of life due to global climate change and the requirements of a global economy. Randel Hansen (2005) calls this situation the “ethnocide via climate change of Arctic indigenous communities.” How do we think about this situation as these processes accelerate so that, within a generation, these indigenous communities may not survive? Is this natural? What kind of environmental politics can encompass the threat to both Emperor penguins and Alaskan Natives from global climate change? The disjuncture between the politics of species preservation and the politics of environmental justice presents a barrier to thinking through the relation between these looming disasters. For instance, in An Inconvenient Truth, there is a lengthy discussion of the consequences of the melting of the northern and southern polar ice. There is no mention at all of the consequences of this drastic change on Arctic indigenous peoples. Instead, there is a wrenching depiction of an animated polar bear trying unsuccessfully to get onto a melting ice floe in a vast, iceless sea. Yet the ecologies of the polar bear and of the Arctic indigenous peoples are interrelated, and surely both are worth concern and intervention. They are also ecologies interrelated with industrialized ecologies. The reproduction of industrialized economic systems, particular by the United States and other Western countries, has consequences for planetary ecological workings on a global scale as well as on the scale of communities, families, and species, determining the ability of animals, families, and cultures to reproduce in healthy and sustainable ways. In a point relevant to my earlier discussion of the penguins, we should understand family structure in these indigenous communities as arising from interrelationships among animals, land, and economic practices. Family does not float free in nuclear groupings of two adults (heterosexual or not) and two children, independent of the consequences of their material practices, whether they are industrialized or hunter-gatherers. The idea that families either are separate from or purely reflect a romanticized or anthropomorphized nature is an illusion, whether they are Western or indigenous or any other kind of family. So the point is not that we all have to or should replicate the family structures of Arctic indigenous peoples (which are varied), but we might try, as environmentalists, feminists, and gay activists, to be cognizant of the material interrelationships produced by particular familial forms so that we can choose responsible ways of living, producing, consuming, and reproducing on our planet. Romanticizing indigenous people, or ignoring the technological and ecological underpinnings of all ways of living, are different forms of racism, both of which can make ecological ethnocide invisible.


====Resources==== 
The epistemology behind space resource exploitation depends on heteronomrative ways of viewing the world
Griffin 9 (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, p.69-70, MH)
Similarly, NASA’s website claims that ‘from the time of our birth, humans have felt a primordial urge to explore’, to ‘blaze new trails, map new lands, and answer profound questions about ourselves and our universe’ (www.nasa.gov). Much commercial gain already depends on the exploitation of outer space, but there is undoubtedly more to be made of space’s ‘resources’: ‘asteroidal’ mining, for example; the extraction of ‘lunar soil oxygen’; the mining of very rare ‘Helium-3’ from lunar soil as fuel for nuclear fusion reactors; or space, and particularly the Moon, as a ‘tourist venue’, offering all kinds of new ‘sporting opportunities’ (Morabito 2005:5–7). But the lines distinguishing the various components of the outer space ‘whole’ are vague, and are particularly obscured by the tacit but pervasive heteronormativity that makes of space (to borrow the language of the then USSPACECOM) a ‘medium’ to be exploited; the passive receptacle of US terrestrial ‘force’. As Goh states, outer space ‘is an arena of growing economic and technological importance. It is also a developing theatre of military defence and warfare’ (2004:259). US outer space discourse is driven by the belief that outer space exists to be conquered (and that it rarely fights back), that those at the cutting edge of its exploitation are the ‘visionaries’ and ‘entrepreneurs’ that will pave the way to tourists, explorers, TV crews and to, as Morabito claims, ‘dubious characters’ such as, perhaps, ‘bounty hunters’ (2004:10).
====Co-Operation==== 
Masculinist IR kills international cooperation – Turns Case
Christensen 05 –[MS in sociology, 8—BS in sociology from State U of NY, Magna Cum Laude. MS in sociology, U Wisconsin-Madison. PhD expected in Spring 2010 (Wendy, “Cowboy of the World? Gender Discourse and the Iraq War Debate,” http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/0/2/2/ 8/8/pages22889/p22889-1.php]
By framing war in terms of gender both pro-war and anti-war continuously re-assert old and easily understood cultural meanings of gender. While anti-war actors agree that war debate is about masculinity, they must actively contest the masculinity mobilized by pro-war actors to make the case for war. Anti-war actors contest the cowboy masculinity valued by those who are pro-war in favor a masculinity that values diplomacy and international relationships. According to anti-war actors, cowboy masculinity and its simplistic language and “go it alone” approach to foreign policy has serious consequences as it devalues discussion and dissent. Anti-war actors value a kind of masculinity that is about forming relationships through diplomacy instead of rushing into war as unilateral action. There are serious consequences for using lone ranger cowboy masculinity to frame war debate. When the pro-war position values a “lone ranger,” “go it alone” kind of cowboy masculinity they are actively devalue diplomacy, and debate, at the cost of international relationships and international organizations. Mobilizing cowboy masculinity thus has consequences for international peace and diplomacy as cowboy devalues complex discussion, international cooperation, and organizations such as the United Nations. Pro-war actors are primarily responsible for framing war debate around macho, cowboy masculinity in order to construct the case for war. Anti-war actors only work within the frame of masculinity given by pro-war actors when they contest the pro-war argument. As a result, anti- war actors rarely engage in active framing of war, and thus do not have the opportunity to construct a complex anti-war argument. By continuing to construct war debate war within the constraining frame of gender, anti-war actors not challenge the dismissal of “feminine” perspectives from war debate as voices that are not the correct kind of masculinity (such as the perspective of women) are silenced. Framing war debate in terms of better or worse forms of masculinity simplifies debate, as those who are anti-war are only able to construct opposing perspectives that require different conceptions of masculinity instead of transgressing gender altogether. Furthermore, constructing international actors and states as male individuals justifies organizing war debate around conceptions of masculinity as male international actors must express a specific kind of masculinity or feel threatened otherwise.


====A2: Threats Real==== 
The notion that threats are real is simply a fantasy produced by the neurotic drive for global mastery- even if they were true, voting affirmative wouldn’t solve them
James B Rule, PhD Harvard, MA Oxford, BA Brandeis, The Military State of America and the Democratic Left, Dissent Vol. 57 No 1, Winter 2010
So what can the democratic Left offer as an alternative to the endless agenda of American world domination? We could well begin with an extremely modest proposal: retooling the United States as a normal country. Normal, that is to say, by comparison to other prosperous democratic societies. Just to get the ball rolling, consider reducing the proportion of American GDP devoted to military purposes by half - to roughly three hundred billion dollars per year, or about 10 percent of the national budget. Included in this reduction should be all unacknowledged expenditures for services of mercenaries and other off-the-books manifestations of U.S. militarism. This would still leave the United States as one of the most heavily militarized countries in the world. But it would also make vast resources available for more constructive purposes, ranging from universal medical coverage for Americans to investment in renewable energy to support of global initiatives to control of curable diseases in the world's poorest countries. The outrage at any such suggestion is predictable. What about the evils, dangers and conspiracies that constantly threaten this country? We've got Muslim fundamentalism, a resurgent China, failed states, nuclear proliferation ... We've got, we've got ... !slamo -fascismi The United States leads the world against these enemies of civilization. You're proposing abandonment of our allies, disengagement from the rest of the world - indeed, isolationism! One thinks of the desperate rationalizations of a morbidly obese person contemplating gentle suggestions for a diet: "Don't make me do it! I might wither away and die of starvation!" This modest proposal in no way requires categorical disengagement from global concerns. Under it, America would remain a major military power. It would allow ample resources to counteract violent threats to American wellbeing, both foreign and domestic. But halving our military budget would encourage longoverdue national debate about the wisest uses of this country's substantial remaining military resources. Most important, a lurch toward normalcountry status would make it easier for America and Americans to support one of the most significant recent trends in global affairs. These are the subtle shifts toward attenuation of exclusive prerogatives of states in general - in favor of other forms of global authority. Signs of these changes include efforts to create international authority over war crimes; the willingness of national courts to indict and prosecute highly placed human rights violators in other countries, notwithstanding claims of sovereign immunity; and the rising role of NGOs and other grassroots actors in challenging human rights violations and other atrocities. Very incrementally, states are losing their unchallenged monopoly to exert large-scale coercion. Neoconservatives will of course deride such tentative developments as insignificant in juxtaposition to the fixed and eternal (as they see them) forces of realpolitik. But in fact, these trends could hold the keys to curtailing the vast toll of state-sponsored violence that reached its climax - at least, we hope - in the twentieth century. We on the democratic left should be first to support such changes. Hegemony advantage makes the perm impossible- this card will end them Above all, America has to get over the fantastical fixation on its status as the world's master military enforcer, both the obsession with maintaining that status and the frightening conviction of moral superiority that seems to go along with it. Most dangerous of all is the view of America as some sort of avenging angel of global righteousness, such that American failure to rain down military destruction on retrograde regimes becomes tantamount to supporting them. Such logic can never be applied systematically. There are just too many unappealing regimes and movements around the world for them all to be targeted. But the availability of that idea in the language of American politics enables whoever holds sway in Washington to demonize any regime that gets in America's way as the Evil du jour, hence a legitimate target for made-in-America mayhem. And it appears, alas, that there will always be intellectuals ready to supply high-minded rationales for such efforts. Such justifications must never come from the democratic Left.
====A2: Framework==== 
Their framework is heteronormative. Only our interpretation allows communications fields to become an important educational opportunity to unpack the heterosexual knapsack and shift knowledge production away from heterosexual norms.
Yep 4 (Gust, Professor of Speech and Communication Studies and Human Sexuality Studies at San Francisco State University, 3/10/04, The Violence of Heteronormativity in Communication Studies: Notes on Injury, Healing, and Queer World-Making, Queer Theory and Communication: From Disciplining Queers to Queering the Discipline, p. 47-8, MH)
In other words, communication scholars are inextricably involved in current regimes of power and knowledge. As such, communication scholars are profoundly implicated in the maintenance of the homo/heterosexual binary, the fundamental conceptual pair that organizes modern Western discourses of sexuality. In the academy and elsewhere, institutional heterosexuality, through the process of normalization, becomes heteronormative. Heteronormativity produces “the equation ‘heterosexual experience = human experience’” and “renders all other forms of human sexual expression pathological, deviant, invisible, unintelligible, or written out of existence” (Yep, 2002, p. 167). More simply put, heteronormativity is violent and harmful to a range of people across the spectrum of sexualities, including those who live within its borders. Aware of the mobility of power relations, queer/quare theorists from a variety of disciplines have provided analytical tools to create new openings and possibilities of change and transformation. Such scholars are not interested in speaking for others, providing definitive solutions, proclaiming transhistorical generalizations, declaring transcultural knowledge, or making universal pronouncements. These queer/quare theorists and activists are invested in “detaching the power of truth from the forms of hegemony, social, economic and cultural, within which it operates at the present time” (Foucault, 1980, p. 133). Committed to the celebration of human differences and dedicated to the interrogation of the normalizing technologies of power, these interdisciplinary scholars and community activists scrutinize the homo/heterosexual binary as the foundation of current discourses of sexuality, and critically examine heteronormativity. As a communication teacher and scholar who travels across academic disciplinary boundaries, I invite communication scholars across the spectrum of social locations to join these theorists and practitioners in this radical project to expand, stretch, reorient, and re-map the conceptual landscape of the field of communication. I urge communication teachers and scholars to interrogate and unpack the homo/heterosexual binary, disentangle and demystify the power of heteronormativity in our scholarship, pedagogy, and cultural politics, and to create and produce historically specific and embodied racialized knowledges of the human sexual subject.

4. We access the best internal link to fairness. The idea of letting heterosexual practices continue while shutting out alternative voices is a hypocritical double standard.
Slagle 4 (R. Anthony, president of Speech Communication Association of Puerto Rico/PhD in English from Ohio State, 3/10/04 “Queer Criticism and Sexual Normativity: The Case of Pee-wee Herman”, Queer Theory and Communication: From Disciplining Queers to Queering the Discipline, p.134, MH)
Queer criticism, then, both draws attention to and challenges the notion that sexuality is a private matter that is best left in the bedroom. For queer critics, when people suggest that it is inappropriate to discuss issues of sexuality, they are really saying that nonnormative sexualities are inappropriate. The dogmatic insistence upon silence when it comes to queer sexualities does not, in practice, apply to those with normative sexualities. Queer critics draw attention to the fact that heterosexuality is frequently displayed publicly. Such displays include the fact that heterosexuals are able to walk down the street holding hands, or sit in the park kissing. It is not unusual to see heterosexuals have photographs of their husbands or wives and children on their desks in the workplace. Marriage is another example of the celebration of normative sexuality– engagements and marriages are typically announced in the newspaper. When queers try to celebrate their relationships in similar ways, they are, at best, accused of making something public that people don’t want to hear about or, at worst, they are accused of trying to destroy the most fundamental institution upon which society is built (the nuclear family). Queer critics draw attention to the hypocrisy of such a double standard, and they emphasize that if people were secure in their own sexual roles they would have no reason to feel threatened by sexualities that differ from their own.

There is no reason to vote affirmative: there is no link between their proposal and practical, worldly effects due to their misrepresentation of agent
Schlag, 90 PROFESSOR OF LAW@ UNIV. COLORADO, 1990 (PIERRE, STANFORD LAW REVIEW, NOVEMBER, PAGE LEXIS)
In fact, normative legal thought is so much in a hurry that it will tell you what to do even though there is not the slightest chance that you might actually be in a position to do it. For instance, when was the last time you were in a position to put the difference principle n31 into effect, or to restructure [*179] the doctrinal corpus of the first amendment? "In the future, we should. . . ." When was the last time you were in a position to rule whether judges should become pragmatists, efficiency purveyors, civic republicans, or Hercules surrogates? Normative legal thought doesn't seem overly concerned with such worldly questions about the character and the effectiveness of its own discourse. It just goes along and proposes, recommends, prescribes, solves, and resolves. Yet despite its obvious desire to have worldly effects, worldly consequences, normative legal thought remains seemingly unconcerned that for all practical purposes, its only consumers are legal academics and perhaps a few law students -- persons who are virtually never in a position to put any of its wonderful normative advice into effect.

====Realism==== 
Violence is a social construction—The epistemology of inevitability and rationality makes violence preferable and makes every action “justifiable”
Burke, 06 (Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason 10:2 | © 2007 Anthony Burke War as a Way of Being: Lebanon 2006 (PhD, Anthony Burke was appointed to UNSW@ADFA in February 2008, after three years in the School of Social Sciences and International Studies at UNSW Sydney (2005-7) Theory & Event, Project Muse).
I was motivated to begin the larger project from which this essay derives by a number of concerns. I felt that the available critical, interpretive or performative languages of war -- realist and liberal international relations theories, just war theories, and various Clausewitzian derivations of strategy -- failed us, because they either perform or refuse to place under suspicion the underlying political ontologies that I have sought to unmask and question here. Many realists have quite nuanced and critical attitudes to the use of force, but ultimately affirm strategic thought and remain embedded within the existential framework of the nation-state. Both liberal internationalist and just war doctrines seek mainly to improve the accountability of decision-making in security affairs and to limit some of the worst moral enormities of war, but (apart from the more radical versions of cosmopolitanism) they fail to question the ontological claims of political community or strategic theory. In the case of a theorist like Jean Bethke Elshtain, just war doctrine is in fact allied to a softer, liberalised form of the Hegelian-Schmittian ontology. She dismisses Kant's Perpetual Peace as 'a fantasy of at-oneness...a world in which differences have all been rubbed off' and in which 'politics, which is the way human beings have devised for dealing with their differences, gets eliminated.'83 She remains a committed liberal democrat and espouses a moral community that stretches beyond the nation-state, which strongly contrasts with Schmitt's hostility to liberalism and his claustrophobic distinction between friend and enemy. However her image of politics -- which at its limits, she implies, requires the resort to war as the only existentially satisfying way of resolving deep-seated conflicts -- reflects much of Schmitt's idea of the political and Hegel's ontology of a fundamentally alienated world of nation-states, in which war is a performance of being. She categorically states that any effort to dismantle security dilemmas 'also requires the dismantling of human beings as we know them'.84 Whilst this would not be true of all just war advocates, I suspect that even as they are so concerned with the ought, moral theories of violence grant too much unquestioned power to the is. The problem here lies with the confidence in being -- of 'human beings as we know them' -- which ultimately fails to escape a Schmittian
architecture and thus eternally exacerbates (indeed reifies) antagonisms. Yet we know from the work of Deleuze and especially William Connolly that exchanging an ontology of being for one of becoming, where the boundaries and nature of the self contain new possibilities through agonistic relation to others, provides a less destructive and violent way of acknowledging and dealing with conflict and difference.85 My argument here, whilst normatively sympathetic to Kant's moral demand for the eventual abolition of war, militates against excessive optimism.86 Even as I am arguing that war is not an enduring historical or anthropological feature, or a neutral and rational instrument of policy -- that it is rather the product of hegemonic forms of knowledge about political action and community -- my analysis does suggest some sobering conclusions about its power as an idea and formation. Neither the progressive flow of history nor the pacific tendencies of an international society of republican states will save us. The violent ontologies I have described here in fact dominate the conceptual and policy frameworks of modern republican states and have come, against everything Kant hoped for, to stand in for progress, modernity and reason. Indeed what Heidegger argues, I think with some credibility, is that the enframing world view has come to stand in for being itself. Enframing, argues Heidegger, 'does not simply endanger man in his relationship to himself and to everything that is...it drives out every other possibility of revealing...the rule of Enframing threatens man with the possibility that it could be denied to him to enter into a more original revealing and hence to experience the call of a more primal truth.'87What I take from Heidegger's argument -- one that I have sought to extend by analysing the militaristic power of modern ontologies of political existence and security -- is a view that the challenge is posed not merely by a few varieties of weapon, government, technology or policy, but by an overarching system of thinking and understanding that lays claim to our entire space of truth and existence. Many of the most destructive features of contemporary modernity -- militarism, repression, coercive diplomacy, covert intervention, geopolitics, economic exploitation and ecological destruction -- derive not merely from particular choices by policymakers based on their particular interests, but from calculative, 'empirical' discourses of scientific and political truth rooted in powerful enlightenment images of being. Confined within such an epistemological and cultural universe, policymakers' choices become necessities, their actions become inevitabilities, and humans suffer and die. Viewed in this light, 'rationality' is the name we give the chain of reasoning which builds one structure of truth on another until a course of action, however violent or dangerous, becomes preordained through that reasoning's very operation and existence. It creates both discursive constraints -- available choices may simply not be seen as credible or legitimate -- and material constraints that derive from the mutually reinforcing cascade of discourses and events which then preordain militarism and violence as necessary policy responses, however ineffective, dysfunctional or chaotic.

====A2: Owen Evidence==== 
Owen likes our alt—only becoming a specific intellectual, using your decision to mark the crude points of the 1AC’s discourse can make debate a space to challenge regimes of truth and power
Owen 94 (David Owen, Professor of Social and Political Philosophy @ University of Southampton Morality and Modernity, 1994, pp 208-210)
The ‘universal’ intellectual, on Foucault’s account, is that figure who maintains a commitment to critique as a legislative activity in which the pivotal positing of universal norms (or universal procedures for generating norms) grounds politics in the ‘truth’ of our being (e.g. our ‘real’ interests). The problematic form of this type of intellectual practice is a central concern of Foucault’s critique of humanist politics in so far as humanism simultaneously asserts and undermines autonomy. If, however, this is the case, what alternative conceptions of the role of the intellectual and the activity of critique can Foucault present to us? Foucault’s elaboration of the specific intellectual provides the beginnings of an answer to this question: I dream of the intellectual who destroys evidence and generalities, the one who, in the inertias and constraints of the present time, locates and marks the weak points, the openings, the lines of force, who is incessantly on the move, doesn’t know exactly where he is heading nor what he will think tomorrow, for he is too attentive to the present (PPC p. 124) The historicity of thought, the impossibility of locating an Archimedean point outside time, leads Foucault to locate intellectual activity as an ongoing attentiveness to the present in terms of what is singular and arbitrary in what we take to be universal and necessary. Following from this, the intellectual does not seek to offer grand theories but specific analyses, not global but local criticism. We should be clear on the latter point for it is necessary to acknowledge that Foucault’s position does entail the impossibility of ‘acceding to a point of view that could give us access to any complete and definitive knowledge of what may constitute our historical limits’ and, consequently, ‘we are always in the position of bargaining again’ (FR p. 47). The upshot of this recognition of the partial character of criticism is not, however, to produce an ethos of fatal resignation but, in so far as it involves a recognition that everything is dangerous, a ‘hyper and pessimistic activism’ (FR p. 343). In other words, it is the very historicity and particularity of criticism which bestows on the activity of critique its dignity and urgency. What of this activity then? We can sketch the Foucault account of the activity of critique by coming to grips with the opposition he draws between ideal critique and real transformation. Foucault suggests that the activity of critique is not a matter of saying that things are not right as they are but rather of pointing out on what kinds of assumptions, what kinds of familiar, unchallenged, uncontested modes of thought the practices we accept rest (PPC p.154) The genealogical thrust of this critical activity is ‘to show that things are not as self-evident as one believed, to see that what is accepted as self-evident is no longer accepted as such’ for ‘as soon as one can no longer think things as one formerly thought them, transformation becomes both very urgent, very difficult, and quite possible’ (PPC p. 155). The urgency of transformation derives from the contestation of thought (and the social practices in which it is embedded) as the form of our autonomy, although this urgency is given its specific character for modern culture by the recognition that the humanist grammar of this thought ties us into the technical matrix of biopolitics. The specificity of intellectual practice and this account of the activity of critique come together in the refusal to legislate a universal determination of ‘what is right’ in favour of the perpetual problematization of the present. It is not a question, for Foucault, of invoking a determination of who we are as a basis for critique but of locating what we are now as the basis for reposing the question ‘who are we?’ The role of the intellectual is thus not to speak on behalf of others (the dispossessed, the downtrodden) but to create the space within which others can speak for themselves. The question remains, however, as to the capacity of Foucault’s work to perform this crucial activity through an entrenchment of the ethics of creativity as the structures of recognition through which we recognize our autonomy in the contestation of determinations of who we are.

====Environment Alternative Extensions==== 
The alternative is to reframe what environmental impacts matter. Problems like destruction of queer bodies and cultures through toxic discourses are on an equal environmental plane as global warming, and yet these problems gain no notoriety. Only this process can unlock powerful coalition building potential.
Hogan 10 (Katie, Professor of English and Director of Women’s Studies at Carlow University, 7/14/2010, “Undoing Nature: Coalition Building as Queer Environemtnalism”, Queer ecologies: sex, nature, politics, desire, p235-6, MH)
Queer critical interventions into such uses of nature and environment expose the dark purpose to which nature and environmentalism can be put. Disrupting, challenging, and understanding normative ideas of what counts as naturally fit and unfit is the primary emphasis. Such critical work is as important to humans and all nature as is the work of identifying environmental racism and stopping toxic dumping on poor rurual and urban areas. Furthermore, while typical instances of environmental degradation include a focus on chemical toxicities and vulnerable ecosystems, the destruction of queer bodies, communities, and cultures through toxic discourses of unnatural and unfit are also outrageous instances of environmental destruction as urgent as disappearing species and global warming. This powerful reframing of what “counts” as environmental damage—and seeing the environmental discourse as a potential location of harm and damage—opens up affinities between ecocentrism and queer theory, but also between more directly activist approaches of environmental justice theory and activism and queer intellectual activity and thought. Since both queer and environmental justice perspectives assume that nature and environment are not neutral ahistorical categories, and each critical practice looks at how the very language of nature and environmentalism can often mask harm to humans and nature, this shared theoretical and historical experience could serve as the basis for coalition. If divided and disparate groups agreed to consider how nature is often a “weapon of oppression” used against them, and, equally important, if these same groups saw how nature is also an opportunity or creative resistance, an unusually strong coalition could be formed (Quigley 1999, 202). Like environmental justice, queer critical consciousness continually exposes the violence and ideology of these taken-for-granted terms. In this way, queer theory’s preoccupation with the uses of nature operates as a form of environmentalism that is useful to all communities deemed unfit.

====Quare Theory Alt==== 
Yep 4 (Gust, Professor of Speech and Communication Studies and Human Sexuality Studies at San Francisco State University, 3/10/04, “The Violence of Heteronormativity in Communication Studies: Notes on Injury, Healing, and Queer World-Making”, Queer Theory and Communication: From Disciplining Queers to Queering the Discipline, p.41-2, MH)
In light of this situation, Muñoz offers the notion of disindentifications as a lens to interpret minoritarian politics based on interlocking components of race, class, gender, and sexuality and discusses how such components affect the social. Focusing on a critique of stable conceptions of identity and committed to racialized and class knowledges, Johnson (2001) introduces quare theory. He explains, Quare studies . . . would not only critique the concept of “race” as historically contingent and socially and culturally constructed/performed, it would also address the material effects of race in a white supremacist society. . . . As a “theory of the flesh” quare necessarily engenders a kind of identity politics, one that acknowledges difference within and between particular groups. Thus, identity politics does not necessarily mean the reduction of multiple identities into a monolithic identity or narrow cultural nationalism. Rather, quare studies moves beyond simply theorizing subjectivity and agency as discursively mediated to theorizing how that mediation may propel material bodies into action. (p. 9) Both disindentifications and quare theory appear productive points of engagement with mainstream queer theory about racialized knowledges and experiences. (For a more detailed explanation of these approaches, see Johnson [2001] and Muñoz [1999].)


===Critical Conformity=== 
=====1NC Shell===== 
Attempts to be subversive and revolutionary fail to recognize that the rejection of authority is just what authority thrives on
McGowan 4 PhD from Ohio State English Department (Todd, 2004, “Introduction: Psychoanalysis after Marx”, End of Dissatisfaction? Jacques Lacan and the Emerging Society of Enjoyment”, p. 124-6) MH
In response to the command to enjoy, …the prevailing symbolic authority.

The ballot doesn’t accomplish anything. Let’s face it: it’s an empty gesture that will only make the judge feel like something has been accomplished. This process assuages the revolutionary fire in the belly of the judging community and prevents pragmatic breakdown of capitalism. The alternative is to realize the failure of the affirmative’s political strategy. This recognition allows us to find an alternative form of rebellion against capitalism.
McGowan 4 PhD from Ohio State English Department (Todd, 2004, “Introduction: Psychoanalysis after Marx”, End of Dissatisfaction? Jacques Lacan and the Emerging Society of Enjoyment”, p. 192-4) MH
The problem with the school uniform movement, … enjoy is already to begin to enjoy.

Capitalism is the root cause of all of the badness outlined in the 1AC. Capitalism has twisted it’s leaves to incorporate all other forms of oppression. This evidence is comparative that we can’t fix racism and sexism without starting with capitalism.
Marsh 95- Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University (James, Critique Action and Liberation, p 282-3)
Next, we must consider the question …capitalized sexism is not the same as pre-capitalist sexism.
===Psychoanalysis=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
The utopian vision of a peaceful global community will be impossible to realize—necessitating the scapegoating and elimination of the other. Lacanian political intervention is the only way out.
Stavrakakis, 99 (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 99-100).
Our age is clearly an age of social .. problematic area (seminar of 18 June 1958).

Vote negative to embrace the lack and interrogate the cycle of enmity produced by their scenarios for conflict---rejection is key to breaking down the psychological foundations that make war inevitable
Byles 3 (Joanna Montgomery, prof of English @ the Univ of Cyprus, Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society 8.2 (2003) 208-213, Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification).
It is here of course that language plays an .. a way of thinking.
====Framework==== 
Our interpretation---the judge should assume the position of an analyst---interrogating the aff’s psychological investment in the politics of the status quo should be a prior question to their advantages and solvency claims---it’s not about what the neg does it’s about what the aff needs to do better Zizek 2k – prof @ University of Ljubljana (Slavoj, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality, 124-127) Now I can also answer the obvious … traversing the fantasy towards the Real.
====A2: Falsifiability==== 
Newest studies say you’re wrong---medical advances have proven psychoanalysis correct, falsifiable, and scientific
Heather A. Berlin 9 is an American neuroscientist focusing on brain-behavior relationships affecting the prevention and treatment of psychiatric disorders AND Christof Koch "Defense Mechanisms: Neuroscience Meets Psychoanalysis" April 13 Scientific American www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=neuroscience-meets-psychoanalysis
Advances in technologies such …who was, after all, a neuroscientist by training.
====Links==== 
=====Impossible Demands===== 
Impossible demands maintain the status quo—we can passionately play the role of radicals without risking actual change. Zizek 2 (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, Welcome to the Desert of the Real: Five Essays on September 11 and Related Dates, “Passions of the Real, Passions of Semblance”, p. 59-61) MH
In a strict Lacanian sense of the term, …of getting hundreds ofthousands of dollars.
=====Root Cause===== 
All attempts to find a root cause overdetermine one social relation over others—this attempt inevitably produces a politics of purity that has fueled the worst massacres and holocausts
Zizek 89, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies (Ljubljana), 1989 [Slavoj, The Sublime Object of Ideology, p. 3-5]
The basic feature of so-called 'post-Marxism' is… only afterwards can the state limit its disastrous effects.
=====Otherization===== 
Fully embracing the Other wil fail as a political strategy. Alienation is inevitable. Only the Lacanian alternative can cope with this reality.
Stavrakakis 99 (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 34-35).
What should be stressed at this point is that …politics is revealed as the politics of impossibility.



==Impact Turns== 
===Hegemony=== 
====1NC==== 
There is no impact to hegemony- Obama doesn’t know how to wield Excalibur.
Huelett 9/3 (Sue, Richard P. and Sophia D. Henke Distinguished Professor of Political Science and chair of the Political Science Department at Knox College, 2011, “Sue Hulett: Has Obama abandoned global leadership?”, http://www.galesburg.com/newsnow/x1638741805/Sue-Hulett-Has-Obama-abandoned-global-leadership, MH)
After the Libyans liberated themselves … image of American weakness of will.

A. Plan would be perceived as an assault on Russia’s revival.
AP – 7 (“Russia General Says U.S. Expansion in traditional zone of influence is top security threat”, lexis)
Russia's top military officer … national security.

B. That sparks nationalism.
Dmitry V. Suslov, Deputy Director on Research at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy, Moscow, Russia, 05 [US-Russia Relations Saved for Now, 2-28, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/display.article?id=5348]
Putin's appreciation of power …otion in the broader Middle East.

C. Extinction
Ariel Cohen, 2006, Heritage, The NEW "GREAT GAME": OIL POLITICS IN THE CAUCASUS AND CENTRAL ASIA, January 25, 2006, http://www.heritage.org/Research/RussiaandEurasia/BG1065.cfm
Much is at stake in Eurasia for the U.S. and its allies. … Ukraine, Turkey, Iran, and Afganistan will increase.

Decline doesn’t cause transition wars- allowing multipolar transition results in a liberal utopia
Ikenberry, 11 – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show DH)
For all these reasons, many … the middle of the twentieth century.
====Unsustainable==== 
Heg unsustainable – weakening US power and rising countries
Bayuni, visiting fellow at the East West Center in Washington and a senior editor with The Jakarta Post, 9-13-11
(Endy M., “A decade later, US loses global preeminence,” http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2011/09/13/a-decade-later-us-loses-global-preeminence.html, accessed 9-13-11, CMM)
The Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks … and direction independently. This is certainly true for much of Asia.
====No Impact==== 
Power imbalances create resentment – this kills hegemonic legitimacy and prevents effective leadership
Maher 11 (Richard, PhD in Polysci from Brown, Orbis, Volume 55, Issue 1, 2011, “The Paradox of American Unipolarity: Why the United States May Be Better Off in a Post-Unipolar World”)
Creation of Feelings of Enmity and Anti-Americanism. … own preferences and priorities are legitimate and worthy of emulation.

====Impact Scnearios==== 
=====Econ===== 

A. Primacy will collapse the economy – maintaining it now means greater costs in the future.
Christopher Layne, Associate Professor of International Affairs at the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, 2006 [“Impotent Power?,” National Interest, Issue 85, September/October, Available Online via Academic Search Premier]
During the past 15 years … of the economic base upon which it rests.

=====Disease===== 
A. Primacy guarantees unstoppable emerging diseases – only multipolarity can allow for regional cooperation key to solve.
Steven Weber, Professor of Political Science and Director of the Institute for International Studies at the University of California-Berkeley, et al., with Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, and Ely Ratner, Ph.D. Candidates at the University of California-Berkeley and Research Fellows at its New Era Foreign Policy Center, 2007 [“How Globalization Went Bad,” Foreign Policy, Issue 158, January/February, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Premiere, p. 52-53]
The same is true for global …America can’t change that alone.

=====Democracy Promotion===== 
A. Primacy results in aggressive global democracy promotion.
Christopher Layne, Associate Professor of International Affairs at the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, 2006 [“Impotent Power?,” National Interest, Issue 85, September/October, Available Online via Academic Search Premier]
Iraq and Afghanistan are illustrative of …, however, is an open--and important--question.

B. That causes ethnic conflict.
Edward D. Mansfield, Hum Rosen Professor of Political Science and director of the Christopher H. Browne Center for International Politics at the University of Pennsylvania, and Jack Snyder, Robert and Renée Belfer Professor of International Relations in the Political Science Department and the Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies at Columbia University, 2006 [“Prone to Violence,” National Interest, Issue 82, Winter, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Premier]
THE BUSH Administration has .. consolidation of democracy more difficult.

C. Nuclear war
Shehadi – 83 [Kamal Shehadi, Research Associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, December, ETHNIC SELF DETERMINATION AND THE BREAK UP OF STATES, 1983, p. 81]
This paper has argued that self-determination … national minorities and borders.

=====Entanglement Wars===== 
Maintaining primacy guarantees war to attempt to maintain order – it’s in the job description. Christopher Layne, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2007 ["The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 54-55] In this chapter, I argue that primacy … and—more importantly—China. That results in endless conflicts and guarantees a violent collapse in the future. Ivan Eland, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, 2002 [“The Empire Strikes Out: The "New Imperialism" and Its Fatal Flaws,” Cato Institute Policy Analysis no. 459, November 26, Available Online at http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa459.pdf, Accessed 04-25-2007] Because the strategy of empire equates …, India served only to weaken and distract her." 67
======Caucuses Wars====== 
Hegemony results in terrorism and instability within Central Asia.
Cohen – 3 (Ariel, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies at the Heritage Foundation, “Radical Islam and U.S. Interests in Central Asia”, Testimony before the House Subcommittee on Middle East and Asia”, p. Online: http://www.heritage.org/Research/RussiaandEurasia/Test102903.cfm)
U.S. presence in Central Asia … globalization of conflicts in Central Asia.

That leads to war with Russia.
Blank – 98 (Stephen, MacArthur Professor of Research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College, Jane’s Intelligence Review, 5-1)
Many of the conditions … than almost everywhere else.


===China War Good=== 
I can only find a copy of this on paper, but if someone really wants this, let me know and I'll type everything out.

==Case Defense== 
===Asteroids=== 
====Large Asteroids==== 
Either the status quo solves and vote neg on presumption, or they can’t deflect the asteroid when it comes
Macrae 8/19 (Fiona, staff writer for Daily Telegraph, 8/19/11, “Tilting at asteroids - Don Quixote's mission to save Earth from disaster”, http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/news/indepth/tilting-at-asteroids-don-quixotes-mission-to-save-earth-from-disaster/story-e6frewsr-1226117795877, MH)
A SPACESHIP will be … to Earth than 35 million kilometres.

Increased launches kill the ozone
Page 9 Lewis Page, Register Space Staff, 4-1-2009, “Space launches could be capped to save ozone layer,” The Register, http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/04/01/space_rockets_kill_ozone/
Currently, global rocket … high flight rate launch systems.

Turns the case and guarantees extinction
Thomas 6
William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm
A Canadian atmospheric …—but the stratosphere itself.

No existential risk—empirics.
Bennett 10 (James, Professor of Economics – George Mason, The Doomsday Lobby: Hype and Panic from Sputniks, Martians, and Marauding Meteors, p. 144-145)
It should be noted that the …won’t be overdue for about 40 million years. We have time.

Premature deployment of asteroid mitigation techniques leads to worse impacts than the 1ac—faster timeframe and the possibility is certain
Sagan and Ostro 94 — Carl Sagan, Professor and Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell University, winner of the Oersted Medal, two NASA Distinguished Public Service Medals, the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction, and the National Academy of Sciences Public Welfare Medal, holds a Ph.D. in Astronomy and Astrophysics from the University of Chicago, and Steven J. Ostro, Director of the Asteroid Radar Group at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, holds a Ph.D. in Planetary Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1994 (“Dangers of Asteroid Deflection,” Nature, Volume 368, Number 6471, April 7th, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Nature Online, p. 501)
This proposal is a double-edged sword. .. that posed by the objects themselves.
====Small Asteroids==== 
Small asteroid impact would mobilize the world to prevent larger collisions
VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 163)
A Tunguska type event may .. to prevent such a catastrophe.

No impact—too improbable or small to require preparation
Bennett 10 [James, Eminent Scholar and William P. Snavely Professor of Political Economy and Public Policy at George Mason University, and Director of The John M. Olin Institute for Employment Practice and Policy, “The Chicken Littles of Big Science; or, Here Come the Killer Asteroids!” THE DOOMSDAY LOBBY 2010, 139-185, DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6685-8_6]
The smallest falling bodies, … This is exactly what the NEO lobby wants.

Asteroid collision studies are exaggerated to get more money for other projects
BENNETT 2010 (James, Prof of Economics at George Mason, The Doomsday Lobby: Hype and Panic from Sputniks, Martians, and Marauding Meteors, p. 166
The authors conclude that “increasing public awareness” .., at present, is “neither necessary, nor prudent.”87

China solves
Lee 8/18 (Kevin, staff writer for PC world, 8/18/11 “Chinese Scientists Also Plan to Redirect, Bully Apophis Asteroid”, http://www.pcworld.com/article/238439/chinese_scientists_also_plan_to_redirect_bully_apophis_asteroid.html, MH)
It's looking like Apophis, the asteroid … the asteroid into nothing.

==Neg Strategies== 
===Wake Forest=== 
Rd 1 v. Centennial- Discover Aff, Solar Flares + Climate Leadership
1NC- SKFTA, T- Staffed, Eurocentrism K, ESA CP, Case
2NC- SKFTA, T-Staffed
1NR- Case
2NR- Politics and Case

Rd 4 v. Grady- Weaponization Aff, Heg + China
1NC- T-Staffed, Weapon Spec, Eurocentrism K, Navy Tradeoff DA, China War Good, Heg Defense
2NC- Navy Tradeoff, China War Good
1NR- Heg Defense
2NR- Navy Tradeoff, China War Good, Heg Defense

Rd 6 v. Centennial- Asian Hip Hop/Kritik of "Alien"
1NC- T-Staffed, Framework, Capitalism Kritik
2NC- Framework
1NR- Capitalism Kritik
2NR- Framework

===Georgetown=== 
Rd 2 v. Can't Remember- Commons
1NC T- Plan Texts Need Periods, T- Staffed, International Co-op CP, Environment Disad, Unilateralism Disad, Cap Good
2NC- T-Plan Texts Need Periods, T-Staffed, Cap Good
1NR- International Co-op CP, Unilateralism Disad
2NR- T-Plan Texts Need Periods, T-Staffed

Rd 3 v. GBS- Asteroids
1NC- T-Staffed, Eurocentrism K, Russia CP, Earth Science Tradeoff Disad, Case
2NC- Eurocentrism K, Russia CP, Tradeoff Disad
1NR- Case
2NR- Russia CP, Tradeoff Disad, Case

Rd 5 v. Greenhill- Space Guard
1NC- T- Staffed, Inherency, Eurocentrism K, Decadal Survey CP, SKFTA Politics, Case
2NC- Inherency, Eurocentrism K
1NR- Case
2NR- Inherency, Eurocentrism K

Doubles v, St. Marks- Space Balloons
1NC- T-Staffed, Eurocentrism, Decadal Survey CP, SKFTA Politics, Heg Bad, China War Good, Case
2NC- Heg Bad, China War Good, Case
1NR- T-Staffed
2NR- China War Good, Case
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">licy Group, LLC, which specializes in news, information and analysis of civil, military and commercial space programs and other technology areas. “James Webb Space Telescope Needs More Money to Meet New 2018 Launch Date,” April 27, 2011, http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1539:james-webb-space-telescope-needs-more-money-to-meet-new-2018-launch-date&catid=67:news&Itemid=27]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">__<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">James Webb Space Telescope (</span>__<span style="background: lime; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">JWST</span>__<span style="background: lime; font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">) </span>__<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">the "Casani report," after its chair, John Casani). </span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-left: 0.5in; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; text-indent: -0.25in; top: -25px; width: 1px;">A. Primacy will collapse the economy – maintaining it now means greater costs in the future.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Christopher **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Layne</span>**, Associate Professor of International Affairs at the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2006</span>** [“Impotent Power?,” National Interest, Issue 85, September/October, Available Online via Academic Search Premier]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">__During the past 15 years … of the economic base upon which it rests.__</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-left: 0.5in; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; text-indent: -0.25in; top: -25px; width: 1px;">B. US economy is key to the global economy.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">BUSINESS LINE</span>**, May 2, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2000</span>**, p. online.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">As __the market decline__ wipes … __thus be misleading complacence__.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-left: 0.5in; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; text-indent: -0.25in; top: -25px; width: 1px;">C. Extinction</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">T.E. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Bearden</span>**, LTC U.S. Army (Retired), **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2000</span>** [“The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm]]</span>, June 24]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">__History bears out that desperate … of the biosphere,__ <span class="UnunderlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun;">at lea</span></span></span>
===Bronx=== 
Rd 1 v. BCC- SPS
1NC- T- Staffed, T- Plan Texts Need Periods, LENR CP, India Launches Disad, Eurocentrism K, Case
2NC- India Launches Disad, LENR CP, Case, T- Plan Texts Need Periods
1NR- T- Staffed
2NR- India Launches Disad, LENR CP, Case, T- Plan Texts Need Periods

Rd 3 v. Can't remember- DSCOVR
1NC- T- Staffed, Inherency, China Bashing Politics, OSTP CP, Eurocentrism K, Case
2NC- Eurocentrism K
1NR- T- Staffed
2NR- Eurocentrism K

Rd 5 v. Lexington- ORS
1NC- T- Staffed, Biopower, Code of Conduct/OST CP, Earth Science Tradeoff, China War Good, Heg Bad
2NC- China War Good, Heg Bad
1NR- T- Staffed

===Michigan=== 
Rd 1 v. Pine Crest (the Marci) ORS
1NC- T-Staffed, Multilateral ORS CP (See Centennial's Wiki), Spending DA, Queer Theory, Hegemony Impact Turns, China Impact Turns
2NC- ORS, Spending, Heg, China
1NR- T-Staffed
2NR- T-Staffed

Rd 3 v. Chattahoochee NanoSats
1NC- T-Staffed, Spending Disad, Queer Theory, CoC, Heg Impact turns, China War Good
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Staffed
2NR- Queer Theory

Rd 5 v. Johns Creed- Women in Space
1NC- Comparative Analysis of Institutional Performance (aka ASPEC), Critical Conformity K, Defense of Marriage CP, Spending, Reps answers, Realism
2NC- everything but Critical Conformity
1NR- Critical Conformity
2NR- Critical Conformity

Dubs v. Berkeley Prep- AEHF
1NC- Consult Russia, T-Staffed, Spending DA, Queer Theory
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Staffed
2NR- Queer Theory
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Don’t mistake colonization for something violent- we mean the term in a biological sense</span>**<span class="Heading2Char">Engdah</span><span class="UnderliningChar">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">l 94</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> degree from the University of California at Santa Barbara, graduate studies at Portland State University, </span><span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 13.0pt;">1994</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Sylvia, “Space and Human Survival, Part I,” </span></span>
===Glenbrooks=== 
Rd 1 v Chattahoochee NanoSats
1NC- Politics, Code of Conduct CP, Queer Theory, T-Humans, Heg Bad, China War Good
2NC- China War Good, Heg Bad
1NR- T-Humans

Rd 3 v Niles West SPS
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">http://www.sylviaengdahl.com/space/survival.htm</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Colonies or Settlements? People … “space colonies” prevailing on the Web</span>
1NC- Big Advantage CP, India Launches DA, Queer Theory, T-Humans
2NC- Advantage CP, Launches DA, Case
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- Launches DA, Case

Rd 5 v Westwood SPS
1NC- LENR CP, India Launches DA, Queer Theory, T-Humans
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- Queer Theory

===Ohio Valley=== 
Rd 1 v Centennial DSCOVR
1NC- LENR CP, China Politics, T-Humans, Queer Theory (Environment Version), Bio-D Loss Good
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- Queer Theory

Rd 4 v New Trier METI/Communication Framework
1NC- T-Humans, T-Period, Psychoanalysis, Normativity, EU CP, China Politics, Framework
2NC- Framework, Psychoanalysis, T-Period
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- Period (as a case turn), Psychoanalysis

Rd 6 v Centennial AfroFuturism
1NC- Subversive Ideology K, Queer Theory K, Framework, "Fuck" K, Whiteness Turns
2NC- Queer Theory, Subversive Ideology, Fuck K
1NR- Framework
2NR- Subversive Ideology, Fuck K

Doubles v Westminster Femtosats
1NC- EU CP, China Politics, Queer Theory, T-Humans, Heg Bad
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- Queer Theory

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Extinction within the next hundred years, our only chance is to get off the rock— if Hawking is terrified, you should be too </span>**</span>
===Blake=== 
Rd 1 v Bishop Guertin DSCOVR
1NC- LENR CP, James Webb Space Telescope Tradeoff Disad, Russian Oil Disad, T-Humans
2NC- LENR CP, Russian Oil Disad, Case
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- LENR CP, Russian Oil Disad, Case

Rd 4 v Iowa City West SPS
1NC- India Conditions CP, T-Humans, Queer Theory
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- T-Humans

Rd 6 v Northside Spaceships
1NC-Queer Theory, T-Preexisting, James Webb Space Telescope Tradeoff Disad, Biopower Case Turns, Corporate Tax Reform CP, Framework
2NC- James Webb Space Telescope Tradeoff Disad, Biopower Case Turns
1NR- Framework
2NR James Webb Space Telescope Tradeoff Disad, Biopower Case Turns, Framework
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Szklarski 11/19</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Cassandra, staff writer for Canadian Press, 2011, “Human survival depends on space exploration, says Stephen Hawking”, [[http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/canada/breakingnews/human-survival-depends-on-space-exploration-says-stephen-hawking-134135238.html]], MH)</span></span>
Rd 7 College Prep DSCOVR
1NC- Russian Oil Disad, China Disad, Queer Theory, T-Humans
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- T-Humans

===MBA=== 
Rd 1 v Dowling Asteroids
1NC- Edelman K, Russia CP, T-Humans, Unemployment Insurance DA, Sagan Disad on Case
2NC- Edelman K
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- Edelman K

Rd 4 v UC Lab Asteroids
1NC- Edelman K, Russia CP, T-Humans, Unemployment Insurance DA, Sagan Disad on Case
2NC- Russia CP, Unemployment Insurance DA
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- T-Humans

Rd 5 v St. Marks Space Fuel Depot
1NC- Decadal Survey CP, Unemployment Insurance DA, T-Preexisting, Queer Theory
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Preexisting
2NR- Queer Theory

===Lexington=== 
Rd 1 v Bronx ORS
1NC- T-Humans, PTC Politics, Bulk Buying CP (see Centenntial's Wiki), Queer Theory
2NC- Queer Theory
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- T-Human

Rd 3 v John's Creek Scifi
1NC- Framework, Queer Theory, Psychoanalysis, Government PIC
2NC- Psychoanalysis, Government PIC
1NR- Framework
2NR- Psychoanalysis

Rd 6 v John's Creek Lunar Quarantine
1NC- China Disad, Plan Flaw, T-Humans, Advantage CP
2NC- Plan Flaw, Advantage CP, China Disad
1NR- Case
2NR- Advantage CP, China Disad

Octas v UC Lab Asteroids
1NC- Japan CP, T-Humans, Edelman, Payroll Tax Cuts, Environmental Destruction Good
2NC- Edelman
1NR- T-Humans
2NR- Edelman

===Barkley Forum=== 
Rd 2 v John's Creek Scifi
1NC- Framework, Queer Theory, Psychoanalysis, Government PIC
2NC- Psychoanalysis, Government PIC
1NR- Framework
2NR- Psychoanalysis

Rd 3 v Maine East Vision for Space Exploration
1NC- Doctrinology, Politics, PDD CP, Plan Flaw, Heidegger
2NC- Doctrinology, Plan Flaw
1NR- Heidegger
2NR- Plan Flaw, Doctrinology

Rd 6 v OPRF Cyborgs
1NC- Government PIC, Heidegger, PDD CP, Politics
2NC- Government PIC
1NR- Heidegger
2NR- Government PIC





<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">TORONTO - Stephen </span>__<span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">Hawking says </span>the colonization of outer space is key to the survival of humankind, predicting it will be difficult for the world's inhabitants "to avoid disaster in the next hundred years."__ <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The renowned astrophysicist explores some of the most remarkable advancements in technology and health with the new U.K.-Canadian series "Brave New World With Stephen Hawking," debuting Saturday on Discovery World HD. Before its premiere, he discussed the earth's most pressing concerns in an email interview with The Canadian Press from Cambridge, England, declaring space exploration to be humankind's most urgent mission. "</span>__We are entering an increasingly dangerous period of our history__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">," said Hawking, who has Lou Gehrig's disease, leaving him almost completely paralyzed and unable to speak. </span>__"<span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">Our population and</span> our use of the <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">finite resources</span> of planet Earth are <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">growing exponentially, along with our technical ability to change the environment</span> for good or ill. But our <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">genetic code still carries the selfish</span> and aggressive <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">instincts</span> that were of survival advantage in the past. <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">It will be difficult enough to avoid disaster in the next hundred years</span>, let alone the next thousand or million. "<span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">Our only chance</span> of long-term survival <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">is</span> not to remain lurking on planet Earth, but <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">to spread </span>out <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">into space</span>."__ <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Hawking said this is why he favours manned — or as he puts it, "personed" — space flight and encourages further study into how to make space colonization possible.</span>now looks like this:</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> It’s feasible it takes a month—Ion chemical rockets or asteroid hitchhiking</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> Popular Science 3/16 (Ben Austen, 2011, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=1, MH)</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> Once we get beyond low Earth orbit, we might also figure out how to travel epic distances using something other than chemical rockets. Last November, Popular Science profiled Franklin Chang Díaz, a former NASA astronaut who is developing a rocket powered by an onboard ion engine, which, he estimates, could cut travel time to Mars from six months to a little more than one. A Japanese probe propelled by a 46-foot-wide solar sail, composed of aluminized plastic 0.0075 millimeters thick and pushed along by the pressure of the sun’s photons, flew past Venus in December. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency says the probe is now circling the sun and will return to enter Venus’s orbit in another five years. If we’re able to devise some form of fusion drive, many believe we might be able to fuel it with helium-3 mined from the moon or other celestial bodies. And NASA’s Institute for Advanced Concepts is funding a study to see whether spaceships might be able to hitch a ride with one of the 40 asteroids that periodically pass by both our planet and Mars, the ship traveling energy-free as it reaches its destination in six to 10 months.</span>