[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===ORS 1AC=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should develop a military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand for small satellite development and constellation architecture and substantially increase satellite hardening, maneuverability, reconstitution capabilities, redundancy, and space situational awareness.

The Advantage is Deterrence:

[ ] Subpoint A is Weaponization Now:

First, rapid proliferation of new ASAT and kinetic weapons technology for asymmetric use invites attacks on US space assets – this encourages space instability
<span style="color: black;">Donahue, 10 – USAF Major (Jack, “</span>CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])

Currently, the configuration of global space technologies and assets is highly desirable from a US perspective.67 The US has begun to rely heavily on space assets for a myriad of capabilities in recent years. Some have voiced worries that the United States will lose its lead as the global innovator in technology or that an enemy could make technological leaps that would give it significant advantages.68 That is possible, but by no means a foregone conclusion.69 However one thing is clear, “technology will proliferate.”70 Space technology has become increasingly available to any country or multinational corporation with the ability to fund the research or acquire the technology and place it in orbit.71 The increasing proliferation of launch and satellite capabilities, as well as the development of anti-satellite capabilities has begun to level the playing field.72 Adversary technological advances in kinetic-energy weapons causing structural damage by impacting the target with one or more high-speed masses, directed-energy weapons that are either ground- or air-based systems never getting close to their target, and nuclear weapons that detonate at an empty point in space could put our space assets at risk in the near future.73 Kinetic-energy weapons such as China‘s 11 January 2007 successful test of a direct-ascent, kinetic-kill anti-satellite (ASAT) vehicle destroying an inactive Chinese weather satellite generating thousands of pieces of space debris that threatened many operational spacecraft is of growing concern.74 Another kinetic energy weapon that is of concern is microsatellites (microsats). Currently, at least 40 countrieshave demonstrated some ability to design, build, launch, and operate microsats.75 Microsats can maneuver in such a way to observe and disrupt operations of orbiting assets. These microsats may soon be capable of harassing or destroying larger satellites at virtually any altitude.76 Because these satellites are so small, they may not be easily detectable as part of a payload or when maneuvering in space. Directed-energy weapons are laser, radio frequency, and particle beam weapons. Lasers operate by delivering energy onto the surface of the target and gradual or rapid absorption of this energy leads to several forms of thermal damage.77 Radio frequency (RF) weapons such as the high-power microwave (HPM) have either ground-and space-based RF emitters that fire an intense burst of radio energy at a satellite, disabling electronic components.78 Nuclear weapons are perhaps the technology of most concern to US space assets. Some argue though that adversaries would desist from using nuclear weapons in space out of fear of retaliation.79 While others say “what better way to use nuclear weapons than to destroy a key military capability of an enemy country without killing any of its population.”80 Regardless of the arguments, one thing is clear; a nuclear detonation would have three huge environmental effects in space: electromagnetic pulse (EMP), transient nuclear radiation, and thermal radiation.81 EMP from a nuclear detonation will induce potentially damaging voltages and currents in unprotected electronic circuits and components virtually rendering space assets inoperative.82 Increased radiation from such a detonation would also have profound effects on the space environment. This would severely damage nearby orbiting satellites reducing the lifetime of satellites in LEO from years to months or less and make satellite operations futile for many months.83 The risk of this potential threat is significant. To execute this mission, all that is needed is a rocket and a simple nuclear device.84 Countries such as Iran, North Korea, Iraq, and Pakistan possess such missiles that could carry warheads to the necessary altitudes to perform such missions.85 Technological advances in adversary weaponry are certainly hard to predict even in the near term. However, if this weaponry matures enough and is successfully used it will create additional space debris from the orbiting satellites being rendered inoperative (space junk) and becoming potential hazards to other satellites.

Specifically, Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets – it will escalate because of military tone-deaf-ness and perceived geographical advantages
Wortzel, 8 - Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)

The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research a variety of forms of space weapons.77 These include:
. satellite jamming technology;
. collisions between space bodies;
. kinetic energy weapons;
. space-to-ground attack weapons;
. space planes that can transit and fight ‘‘up or down’’ in the upper atmosphere or space;
. high-power laser weapons;
. high-power microwave weapon systems;
. particle-beam weapons; and
. electromagnetic pulse.78
PLA authors credit the U.S. with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy. The PLA does have various forms of jamming capability, and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies. The dilemma here for the military theorists or planner in the U.S., is that this is really space science and rocket science. Although Chinese military theory, basic research, and applied research into these areas are transparent, the successes or weapons systems that may become formal programs are not transparent. Regardless of whether the algorithms are correct or not, it is clear that the PLA is serious about space warfare. The destruction of their own weather satellite and the blinding of a U.S. satellite mean they are achieving some success. PLA theorists think that internal lines of communication are most favorable for successful military operations, whether the offense, defense, or maintaining a logistics chain.79 They see internal lines as superior to the conduct of military operations on external lines.80 The Chinese see their regional position in Asia as superior to that of the U.S. because the U.S. has to fight, communicate, and re-supply along extended exterior lines, while China enjoys interior lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that in a conflict, they would probably use their jamming and antisatellite systems to disrupt American lines of communication, command and control, situational awareness, and efforts at coordination at the extended ranges of military conflict for the U.S.81 One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do, therefore, would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide the global, real time sensor and communications capabilities for network centric operations. The PLA believes that the U.S. is heavily dependent on its satellite systems, more dependent than the PLA. That is changing, however. As the PLA modernizes its own Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4SIR) systems, it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the U.S. Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other’s military operations. Space warfare will likely become an integral part of traditional conflict. The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One problem that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing. That is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or war planning sphere thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, an incident could quickly escalate and get out of control, leading to an exchange of weapons or a deeper crisis. For example, four officers from the PLA’s Second Artillery Command College, in Wuhan, have published an analysis of how to jam or destroy the space-based ballistic missile advanced warning systems of the U.S.82 In their article, the officers note, ‘‘a space borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars.’’83 They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S. Defense Support Program (DSP) early warning satellites, including the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. The authors discuss how to destroy the U.S. DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons.84 They also have a discussion of how to jam the satellites, their satellite-to-ground transmissions, or to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack.85 In their conclusion, the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the U.S. from launching a large scale military attack or intervention aimed at China’s own military operations on its southeast coast, i.e., to intervene in Chinese military operations against Taiwan.86 Their view is that ‘‘destroying and jamming space borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help us [the PRC] win the war in space.’’87 The PLA is also aware of the most advanced U.S. synthetic aperture radar imaging systems and are thinking through how to neutralize or jam them.88 The problem in this reasoning is that there is no consideration given to a likely American reaction to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by the U.S. is that it might well think it is coming under immediate attack and launch its own strike against China’s strategic missile forces. Another reasonable reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground based laser or direct ascent launch. Even if such a reaction by the U.S. used conventional weapons, the PLA may find it has created a deeper crisis that led to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists, like Cai, advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to U.S. Air Force Space Command manual AFM 2–2.1, Space Warfare and Countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of ‘‘space deterrence’’ to counter American space superiority. 89 For Huang, this shift toward space deterrence mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.90 Huang defines this as ‘‘the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent’s space power to deter that opponent in a practical way.’’91 The goal of this concept of deterrence is to increase the PLA’s power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary’s power.92 The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one’s own economic, military, and science and technology power to ‘‘ruin an opponent’s economy and ability to function in space.’’93 The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the 11 January 2007 destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA’s own direct ascent kill vehicle is clear when interpreted through this concept of demonstrating space deterrence.94 As Huang concedes, for a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability. A deterrent must be demonstrated. It is also important to note that effective space deterrence, as conceived by this writer, includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4SIR systems. In the future, there could be other examples of space deterrence to let the U.S. and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. The PLA could demonstrate various forms of jamming. In doing so, the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Chinese journals do discuss maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to accidental collisions between space bodies. China could deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they still would demonstrate a space deterrent capability. Conclusions There are a number of important findings to this research effort. First, in the event of conflict with the PLA, military operations carried out across all the domains of war, ground, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum, or information- and cyber-warfare, are likely. Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated cyber or information attack on an enemy’s knowledge and command systems. Second, there will probably be strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise, in any future conflict between China and the U.S. Prior to direct conflict, the PLA and the Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions by conducting what it calls legal warfare.95 Third, the concept of legal warfare will be applied by the PRC Foreign Ministry, the security services, Chinese Communist Party liaison Department, and the PLA to exploit political divisions in the U.S. over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems. Fourth, the PLA will seek to exercise space control in a limited area of conflict. The PLA will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of commons in space, over 100,000 m, in peacetime. If direct conflict breaks out, altitude limits on space control are off, and any systems carrying adversary military traffic or signals are probably fair game for the PLA. U.S. Navy Secretary Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August 2007, said that the U.S. still wants to understand what the Chinese intention is in its military modernization.96 This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions. There are a number of China’s activities and policy positions coming from Beijing that make it hard to interpret Chinese intent. Among these are: China’s expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of armed force to reinforce these claims;97 the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space outlined in this paper; and the shaping of the ‘‘space battlefield’’ with legal arguments that would justify China’s actions to prevent space observation over its territory. The U.S. has taken a course with China that is far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach with the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Both states are heavily involved in trade, economic, and political engagements with each other. Nonetheless, both states are wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and there exist some deep fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. The U.S. and the Soviet Union seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other’s free passage in space. Also, they agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance. No such dialogue has taken place with China. The PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. Often, senior military or Chinese Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a cold war mentality.98 Yet discussions on these issues are important to clarify the rationales for America’s positions on space and serve as threat reduction measures. Although China’s intentions are not fully known, they can be inferred from Chinese actions, like the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its own weather satellite as a demonstration of capability. PRC intentions can also be inferred from judicious reviews of its military literature. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its military literature, it is clear that China’s leaders are preparing as though they may have to fight the U.S. To this end, the PLA is busily preparing the space battlefield in advance with legal arguments, as called for in its doctrine. As a result, there are very sound reasons to prepare to defend American interests in space, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict.

<span style="color: #231f20;">[ ] Subpoint B is Asymmetry and Miscalculation:</span>

Multiple adversaries will use space as an asymmetric means to destroy US hegemony – deterrence by punishment will fail because the US lacks defenses and states could act through terrorist proxies
<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10 - </span>Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

The strategy to deter nuclear attack worked throughout the Cold War; the Soviet Union was powerful, but it was also a rational adversary. For this reason, the United States worked hard to understand the culture, goals, incentives, and ideals of the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union was also open to, and reciprocated, U.S. diplomatic engagement overtures. The United States has gained great advantage through development and integration of space capabilities. This has forced potential adversaries to evolve techniques to neutralize this superiority. Attacks on U.S. space systems can be performed through terrorist proxies, third parties, or covert acts that offer perpetrators plausible deniability for damage inflicted. The United States now confronts a diverse set of adversaries, and their rogue leaders are arguably much more risk prone, or perhaps, just oxymoronic, acting deliberately reckless. These adversaries know full well the importance of space capabilities to U.S. diplomatic, military, and economic success. They see that attacking and disrupting space capabilities presents a significant opportunity to deny U.S. national objectives, to retain or expand their own relative power, and to compensate for their own lack of conventional strength. Deterrence has failed throughout history ‘‘because the object of deterring measures fails to notice them, does not find the measures credible, or is pursuing an agenda sufficiently important enough to its interests that it is prepared to ignore the deterrence attempt.’’30 Given this, the United States cannot depend solely on deterrence to secure itself. It must prepare for the possibility that its measures could fail. Therefore, defenses should also be deployed; though the extent of these should be measured and balanced against their utility, and measured by projected costs, lost opportunity costs, likely effectiveness, and effects obtained in the end. Deterrence and defense tasks are inexorably linked to each other. As noted by Robert Butterworth, ‘‘Defenses offer protection, while deterrence threatens punishment. Defenses can succeed whether the enemy believes in them or not.’’31 There are a number of active and passive defensive capabilities that can be developed and deployed to protect space systems, particularly against kinetic-kill ASATs and jammers.

The risk of crisis instability and miscalculation in space is high – the PLA is likely to initiate an attack in a crisis
MacDonald, 11 - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)

One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the result of miscalculation that ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, the PLA's senior officer corps trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They have much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. This means that the PLA overall views world events from a less knowledgeable and sophisticated perspective, a danger in this increasingly complex world, and could explain, for example, the political "tonedeafness" of the PLA in the manner they conducted their 2007 ASAT test. This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that the PLA is organizationally separate from the rest of the Chinese government, and reports only to the Central Military Commission, currently chaired by President Hu Jintao. President Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background, and the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. government. Normally this would not be too great a concern, but in a crisis this could be dangerous. Add to this the fact that China has no equivalent of our National Security Council, a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking, and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure. In a crisis, the PLA probably cannot be counted on to show as sophisticated a sense of judgment as one would hope any country's military leaders, even an enemy's, to show. All these problems and many more pose potential threats to internal political stability and Communist Party control, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space Space assets, and the communications and cyber links that enable them to function, are the means by which essential national security information is either generated, transmitted, or both. This information is the lifeblood of U.S. conventional military superiority and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture as well. As such, these space related assets represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict, and their relative vulnerability can provide dangerously attractive incentives in a crisis to preempt, escalating to war. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise: going first in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary appears to offer many advantages, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems. Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space when "going first" pays off - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours. We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.

An attack on US space assets risks miscalculation and nuclear escalation
<span style="color: black;">Burke, 6 – </span>Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])

The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services; the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets. One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland or an attack that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US.44Although a major attack on the US is not likely, the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a devastating miscalculation that the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike. The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also weakens conventional deterrence. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, the Chinese might seek to disrupt or destroy regional space capabilities as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a //fait accompli//.45 A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49 The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “Space capabilities are no longer nice to have, but are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars.”51 The failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets. The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52 Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives. The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces. Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability. The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55 Today, other nations are working to develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to take the lead in what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—information war. The current coverage gaps in our space surveillance network, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons without our knowledge. Finally, without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is to deter an attack on US space assets. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. A senior officer in US Strategic Command recently stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57

China’s military space modernization is intended to disrupt US naval power over Taiwan – their leaders will miscalculate in a conflict because they assume an attack will force the US to withdraw
Dillon, 2008 – Naval Postgraduate School [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 [[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]] Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]

On January 11, 2007, China destroyed a low earth orbit satellite. Although the weapon may not be the sole determinant in a military struggle, it does represent a milestone worthy of consideration. China’s military modernization is intended to be able to fight a short duration conflict with highly technical weapons that incorporate surprise to gain the upper hand early in the conflict.2 A likely scenario that could lead to the use of an ASAT against U.S. space assets is a Taiwan contingency. If used as a first strike weapon in a Taiwan Strait conflict, the U.S. Navy could potentially be forced to operate in an environment in which space assets become the first targets. Since the outbreak of the Korean War in June 1950, the U.S. Navy, Seventh Fleet, has maintained a continued presence in the Taiwan Strait in times of elevated tensions between the governments of Taiwan and China.3 Additionally, the United States is the largest customer of space assets, and any disruption to these assets could prove challenging for U.S. naval surface forces.4 Currently, the U.S. naval surface forces use space for several mission related areas supporting Sea Power 21. 5 Reconnaissance satellites provide the Sea Power 21 concept with several assets such as ocean and littoral observation, locating opposition forces, assistance in the determination of counter force measures and targeting. Communication satellites provide vast amounts of data used to exchange vital information, and Global Positioning Satellites (GPS) assist in maneuvering and targeting data for complex weapon systems. Space systems have become an embedded element of U.S. naval surface warfare. During the 1996 Taiwan Crisis, the Chinese learned that the U.S. Navy could be expected to maintain a presence if Beijing were to use force against the island of Taiwan.6 Joan Johnson-Freese states that China’s military modernization is directed against U.S. interference in a Taiwan conflict.7 For whatever reason, national prestige, strategic relevance, internal unrest and the need for governing legitimacy, or secure its increasing demand for energy, if China’ leaders feel that Taiwan’s separation from the mainland is no longer in their best interest, they could move forcefully to reunite it.8 The situation remains a tinderbox and more than likely the U.S. Navy would be required to maintain regional presence if hostilities were to erupt. In 2005, the United States Department of Defense (DoD) Annual Report to Congress on the Military Power of the People’s Republic of China suggested that China’s leaders might overestimate its military capabilities, thereby possibly leading it to miscalculation and crisis; this point has been iterated every successive year.9

US-China war over Taiwan causes nuclear extinction
Hunkovic, 2009 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]

A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war, therefore, many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain, if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.

<span style="color: #231f20;">[ ] Subpoint C is Hegemony:</span>

Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony and military capabilities
Marshall, 8 - NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science)

Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’ of the current military capability of the United States (U.S.). This is for two reasons: (1) the U.S. military space systems—in particular reconnaissance, navigation, signals intelligence, early warning, and communications systems—are critical to modern military warfare and intelligence; and (2) space systems are inherently vulnerable to attack. This combination is understood at the highest levels and was espoused in the ‘‘Rumsfeld Space Commission’’ with talk of a ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor.’’1 Whether one agrees with the tone, this is a genuine security problem for the U.S. in need of a near-term solution. While there have been numerous papers, and much media and academic attention, in the space security discussion focused on promoting or criticizing space-based weapons,2 there have been far fewer papers and studies offering constructive ways forward that deal with these genuine security concerns in a broader sense.3 The central motivation for this paper is to put forward one key element—the satellite architecture—in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of U.S. space assets. It is hoped that this idea, together with others like it, should stimulate and contribute to a debate on more constructive ways forward for how to achieve space security in the post-Cold war world. Importance of Space Assets For better or worse, it is clear that the U.S. military is to some significant extent dependent on its key satellites, which number about 86–105 operational satellites at present. These satellites constitute a significant part of the eyes, ears, and central nervous system of the modern military.4 A practical example that helps to illustrate this is the case of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. First, the decision to go was based in part on satellite imagery and signals intelligence from satellites; whether or not it was interpreted or used correctly is a separate issue. Second, the planning and operation were facilitated by satellite imagery. Third, many planes, ships, tanks, and units’ positions were known through Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, and even most munitions were guided by GPS. Fourth, the operation was commanded from the U.S. in large part through the use of communications satellites. Perhaps more importantly than any of the functions in the Iraq example, early warning (EW) satellites are the U.S.’s and Russia’s first warning of nuclear missile attack. As Gray classified, space assets have moved from being ‘‘useful and important’’ to an ‘‘indispensable adjunct’’ in the military over the last decade.5 Space assets are definitely used a great deal by the U.S. military, but that does not mean necessarily as strong a dependence as Gray implies. The loss of U.S. space assets could range in its effect anywhere from a loss to the U.S. military in practical operations, to being catastrophic to U.S. security. The former would entail a reduction in operational effectiveness or speed, but fundamentally supposes that back-up systems and/or redundancy allow a near continuation of military capability. The latter scenario would entail an effective disablement of the U.S. military capability from normal operations. In reality, the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.

Hegemony is key to check regional aggression and arms races – security blanket and geopolitical ties
Khalilzad 11 (ZALMAY KHALILZAD, Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, The Economy and National Security, National Review, FEBRUARY 8, 2011, p. online, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/|http://www.nationalr...w.com/articles/]]

259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad)


American retrenchment could have devastating consequences. Without an American security blanket, regional powers could rearm in an attempt to balance against emerging threats. Under this scenario, there would be a heightened possibility of arms races, miscalculation, or other crises spiraling into all-out conflict. Alternatively, in seeking to accommodate the stronger powers, weaker powers may shift their geopolitical posture away from the United States. Either way, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions. As rival powers rise, Asia in particular is likely to emerge as a zone of great-power competition. Beijing’s economic rise has enabled a dramatic military buildup focused on acquisitions of naval, cruise, and ballistic missiles, long-range stealth aircraft, and anti-satellite capabilities. China’s strategic modernization is aimed, ultimately, at denying the United States access to the seas around China. Even as cooperative economic ties in the region have grown, China’s expansive territorial claims — and provocative statements and actions following crises in Korea and incidents at sea — have roiled its relations with South Korea, Japan, India, and Southeast Asian states. Still, the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.

<span style="color: #231f20;">[ ] Subpoint D is Deterrence by Denial:</span>

ORS is key to deter - overt demonstration of reconstitution capability and new hardening and small satellite technology will deter Chinese offensive actions and prevent new countries from emulating them
<span style="color: #101010;">Putman, 9 – USAF Major, </span>operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief, DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron<span style="color: #101010;"> (Christopher, “</span>Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event

The United States has taken some initial steps to improve its defensive capabilities. The DoD stood up the joint Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Office on May 21,2007 at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico. The ORS effort seeks to meet emerging warfighter needs with new space capabilities. Ron Sega, DoD executive agent for space, stated that efforts will focus on the "ability to launch, activate and employ low-cost military-useful satellites, provide, search capability, reconstitute and augment existing capability, while providing timely availabilities of tailor-made, unique capabilities. ,,39 Further, the DoD's //Plan for Operationally Responsive Space// highlighted the need to increase "situational awareness and adaptability to the threat, as well as an ability to evolve the total suite of space capabilities to address emerging threats in new ways.,,40 The Commander of United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM) detailed three efforts vital to execute the plan: rapidly develop technological and operational innovations, rapidly modify or supplement existing systems to increase capabilities, and rapidly reconstitute space systems when necessary to maintain capability.41 Initial focus on capabilities will be on ISR and communication satellites, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid launch capabilities, and command and control. 42 The ORS effort will use a three tier capability approach to meet warfighter needs. Tier-1 implements activities immediately-to-days using existing or on-orbit systems. Tier-2 utilizes field-ready systems in days-to-weeks to provide rapid exploitation, augmentation or reconstitution of space capabilities. Finally, Tier-3 solutions take months-to-one year to satisfy needs while capabilities are modified or developed and then deployed.43 The ORS implementation timeline envisions eight tactical satellite demonstrators through fiscal year 2013. As of January 2009, two demonstrators have been launched with the third delayed from a scheduled spring 2009 launch due to technical issues. The program timeline also includes tests of operational employment and integration, command and control, and launch vehicles. The ORS program office recently purchased the first three launch vehicle specifically procured for ORS with launches scheduled for 2010 and 2011. Finally, the DoD expects the "Chiliworks" facility at Kirtland Air Force Base, which will focus onTier-2 satellite fielding, to be fully operational by 2015.44 While there are other ongoing efforts within the Intelligence Community and the DoD45 , ORS provides a good starting point for implementation of recommendations within this paper. The ORS plan identifies the need for both anticipatory and reactive elements. ORS planners should focus on the Chinese threat to build capabilities to fit within the Tier-1 and Tier-2 categories. The conflict with China would have to extend past a year to make use ofTier-3 capabilities. The United States must anticipate Chinese actions and have field-ready systems ready for either preemptive or immediate reactive use. Field-ready systems would provide a credible defensive deterrent against existing and likely Chinese offensive anti-satellite actions. PROPOSED DEFENSIVE ACTIONS The United States can choose from a wide variety of options to develop a defensive strategy to counter the Chinese threat to LEO satellites. The comprehensive approach should address space situational awareness (SSA), preplanned satellite actions, launch capability, small satellites, decreased dependence on space systems, nuclear explosion protection, institutional changes, transparency, and engagement. Space Situational Awareness Improving SSA is essential to the success of this strategy. The United States must have a comprehensive knowledge of all objects in orbit. Although the United States maintains a significant Space Surveillance Network (SSN) network, it lacks coverage in key areas and the capability to comprehensively predict the orbits of all objects in space; the February 10, 2009 collision between an Iridium commercial satellite and a Russian military satellite caught the SSN by surprise.46 The United States could build more fixed ground sites, but this would be limited by host country permissions and fiscal constraints. As a near term improvement to coverage, the United States should leverage the US Navy's AEGIS cruiser and destroyer-based radars into its SSN. The AEGIS radar highlighted its space surveillance capability when it tracked a decaying US satellite, enabling its destruction by a US anti-satellite weapon in 2008.47 While the Navy assets need to train and execute their primary mission, they could be given alternate tasking to search and track objects in LEO. This would entail development of procedures between services. Further, integration of land and space-based missile warning sensors into the SSN would yield benefits in the event of an anti-satellite launch. Finally, the United States should continue to pursue satellite as a sensor technology, where the satellite has the ability to self-identify and report on attacks. Improved SSA also allows the United States to characterize the resultant debris field of an anti-satellite attack and thus support reactive measures that may be required by other satellites. Intelligence Directly related to improved SSA is a robust intelligence effort that focuses on Chinese anti-satellite activity. Indications and warning may include increased communication at tracking stations, deployment of mobile tracking stations, and fueling and dispersal of launch vehicles. Identification and reporting of Chinese anti-satellite preparations would enable execution of preemptive defensive actions by the United States. Preplanned Satellite Actions Establishing preplanned actions is key to deterring and reacting to an anti-satellite attack. While the time from launch to impact for the SC-19 is on the order of minutes, intelligence of an impending launch can lengthen the timeline for taking preemptive defensive actions. While limited on-board fuel prevents large orbital maneuvers, a one-time small change to a satellite's orbit is possible. These orbital maneuvers must be executed before the launch of the anti-satellite weapon. Changes in orbit will produce a discrepancy between the anticipated satellite location and the final satellite tracking just prior to launch. The inconsistency may cause the Chinese to doubt the quality of their data and delay the launch as they develop new orbital tracking data, thus opening a window for additional US actions to prevent a launch. However, if the Chinese did decide to launch without updating their data, the slight change in orbit may cause the antisatellite weapon to miss. These same procedures would also be effective against ground-based anti-satellite weapons; a maneuver could lead to a laser missing the target. Having preplanned actions ready to execute provides United States planners another option. If a conflict looks to be inevitable, they could decide to rapidly execute minor maneuvers across satellite constellations. While not only complicating the Chinese targeting process, this could serve as non-destructive shot across the bow. If the conflict escalates into a conventional war, the single maneuver may buy the United States enough time to execute a kinetic strike that would dismantle the Chinese anti-satellite program. The importance of these strikes would move the priority high on the targeting list. Here again, intelligence is a key enabler. Targets must be accurately located, vetted, and updated to enable quick strikes on the anti-satellite targets. Variable and Rapid Launch Capability The current United States Department of Defense launch complex does not have the capability to rapidly replenish satellites in the event of destruction. Launch preparation and execution can take weeks to months. The United States must adopt rapid and flexible commercial launch technologies. Of at least equal importance to having a rapid launch capability is a launch system that deploys satellites from varying locations. When launched from the traditional space ports of Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg Air Force Base, China can easily monitor the launch and quickly determine the initial orbit and possibly satellite type. Having a capability that can unpredictably launch from unmonitored locations will delay China's ability to track and identify United States satellites, greatly inhibiting their ability to target satellites. This capability could be sea-based, where monitoring by an adversary is more difficult. The capability could also be airborne, like the Pegasus program which has successfully launched satellites using an L-I0ll aircraft from California, Virginia, Florida, the Canary Islands, and the Marshall Islands. 48 Small Satellites The United States must also make a move towards smaller satellites that use a common bus and architecture. A single launch vehicle could then deploy multiple small satellites, allowing the rapid establishment of a new constellation at the beginning of a conflict or replenishment of an old one. China would then face a dilemma as to which satellites they would attack. If China does decide to attack, the impact would be proportionately smaller because they would take out a lesser percentage of the constellation. The Iridium collision demonstrated the ability of a large constellation to absorb the loss of single satellite with minimal degradation. 49 Having numerous small satellites ready to launch can also lesson the need to perform defensive orbital maneuvers, as they can be quickly replenished. Finally, small satellites are inherently harder to track whether by radar or optical telescopes. While a requirement for large satellites remains; small satellites will help protect and complement the large satellites. Key to developing small satellites is a common command and control (C2) network regardless of function, rather than today's stovepiped C2 that are unique for each satellite type. A common bus and C2 system can also support small satellites by relying on a cross-linked network to control satellites and download mission data from a central location rather than on ground stations distributed around the globe. Decreased Dependence on Space Systems The United States must decrease its dependence on space systems, making attack on satellites a less appealing target. United States military forces should have weapons and procedures that can function with or without satellite support. For example, high altitude unmanned aerial vehicles can and should complement, and potentially replace, the LEO satellite ISR mission. Countering High-altitude Nuclear Explosions Although the possibility of a HANE may be remote, defense against the long term radiation effects must focus on hardening all future satellites against nuclear explosions. Without hardening, depending on the size of the constellation, satellite replenishment could take months and quickly exhaust satellite spares even with rapid reaction launch capabilities. Building satellites to withstand the nuclear weapon radiation effects beyond that required against the natural environment would add only 2 to 3 percent to total satellite cost.50 Consideration may be given to forgoing hardening for satellites designed for a short (days to weeks) lifetime; one should consider the radiation from a nuclear explosion may remain for up to two years, precluding the launch of non-hardened satellites into the affected orbital regime. 51 While some government low-earth orbit satellites are already hardened, the United States should harden all future satellites. Institutional Changes Changes must be properly incorporated into the DoD infrastructure to be effective. All aspects of doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities must be examined. Additionally, the changes must work across many organizations within the DoD and throughout the United States government. For example, STRATCOM should run comprehensive anti-satellite exercises that incorporate all applicable services and agencies, from the satellite operator to the end user. Transparency The above actions may deter China from further pursuing its anti-satellite programs, but only if executed in a transparent manner. Systems must be fully trained and tested; the United States must overtly demonstrate its capability to rapidly deploy satellites. China must be made fully aware of US capabilities to effectively counter its anti-satellite weapons. China may then realize that its actions will have minimal effect on US military capabilities. Engagement Beyond using a military response to protect government satellites, the United States should consider a holistic approach to China's anti-satellite capabilities by using the other elements of national power: diplomatic, information, and economic. China's current reliance on space is minimal when compared to the United States. China can therefore afford to use antisatellite weapons against the United States. Increased Chinese reliance on space would provide significant deterrents to Chinese use ofcertain weapons such as direct ascent, co-orbital, and nuclear, since collateral damage from these weapons would affect China. First, the United States should engage on Chinese proposed treaties limiting space weapons. Next, the United States should work to build Chinese economic dependence on space systems, while taking appropriate measures to limit technology transfer. With a gap between the Space Shuttle and Ares launch vehicles, an opportunity exists to bring China in as a partner on the International Space Station by providing equipment launch services. Working with China to build its reliance on and participation in space activities will help build deterrence to the use of anti-satellite weapons; the collateral effects would harm its own interests. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS While this paper focuses on LEO satellites, the same rigor must also be applied to medium Earth orbit (MEO), highly elliptical orbit (REO), and geosynchronous (GEO) orbit satellites. Although current direct ascent anti-satellite capability can only reach LEO, China's ballistic· missile and space launch vehicles could reach higher orbits. Additionally, China has orbited GEO satellites which could already be carrying co-orbital anti-satellite weapons. China has expressed interest in combating the MEO GPS system through both kinetic and non-kinetic attacks.52 China is also actively developing jamming capabilities to combat United States military communications satellites found predominately in GEO. Additionally, the proposed defensive measures will do more than support deterrence against China. Numerous nations will seek to emulate Chinese actions with kinetic and nonkinetic options. In response to the recent anti-satellite activity of China and the United States, Russia announced the resumption of its anti-satellite weapons program.53 Ground-based actions such as jamming are within the realm of many nations and individuals. One only need look at the hijacking of the HBO satellite signal by "Capt Midnight" as an example of a single individual being able to steal a satellite transponder, in effect jamming the intended signal. 54 Further, proliferation of nuclear weapon and ballistic missile technology make the use of a HANE attractive to a rogue nation or terrorist nation that has little reliance on space capabilities. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency suggests this scenario as a possible last act of defiance by North Korean forces facing defeat,55 Lastly, these measures can be used to combat natural phenomena, such as a meteor shower or solar storms that can damage satellite systems. “A strategy that ensures access to and use of space is useful in times of peace just as in times of war, since space systems that provide critical services may fail or become inoperative in the absence of hostile action.”56 Finally, the United States must not stop at applying these recommendations merely to military satellites. While government satellites are critical in a conflict, commercial satellites in all orbital regimes have become an integral part of military operations to include weather, imaging, and communications. Although tightly tied to the world economy, China could decide to expand its anti-satellite program to attack the economic interests of the United States. While commercial satellites companies typically incorporate protective measures against natural threats, the United States government should share best practices and provide incentives to commercial entities to protect themselves against human threats. The government could do this through requirements to obtain licensing or guaranteed govemment contracts to companies that comply. CONCLUSION The fundamental U.S. security interest in the wake of China's 2007 anti-satellite test should be deterring China and others from attacking U.S. assets in space, using both a combination of declaratory policy, military programs, and diplomacy, and promoting a more stable and secure space environment.57 Council on Foreign Relations The United States government requires a comprehensive plan to counter the threat to its LEO systems posed by Chinese anti-satellite weapons. Failing to protect these key satellites would severely degrade US military capabilities in a conflict with China. The United States should rely on a defensive space strategy to deter Chinese anti-satellite actions. The strategy must include robust space situational awareness, preplanned actions, small satellites, rapid and variable launch capability, decreased dependence on space systems and institutional changes. In total, these actions would complicate the ability for Chinese anti-satellite weapons to easily strike US assets while providing the means to operate through an attack and then reconstitute lost capability. The DoD's ORS effort can be used as springboard, but must be accelerated to meet the rapidly emerging threat. Finally, its growth as a space faring nation may eventually be the best deterrence against a Chinese attack on United States satellites. However, the actions outlined in this paper can also be used to counter threats from other nations or natural phenomena. A rapid comprehensive defensive deterrence approach most effectively counters the Chinese threat and meets Presidential guidance to establish “contingency plans to ensure that U.S. forces can maintain or duplicate access to information from space assets and accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58

<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Defensive action in space doesn’t cause an arms race – one already exists, the US can dissuade adversaries by outspending them, and it deters an attack by nullifying the effectiveness of current ASATs</span>
<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">Schendzielos 08 - major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff College [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011] </span>

Lastly, one very popular argument against developing space defenses is the fear that it would precipitate a space arms race. Typically, this argument is more often associated with competing offensive capabilities; however, there is ample empirical evidence that improved defenses can also cause an adversary to seek improved offensive weapon effectiveness. The original line of reasoning postulates that space assets are free from attack now because of the sanctuary they enjoy and because they do not represent a clear and present danger which an adversary feels compelled to directly challenge. Unfortunately, continued American reliance upon unchallenged space exploitation is slowly changing the equation. If the U.S. should develop more OCS capability (such as fielding a destructive ASAT or placing weapons in space) then other nations would feel compelled to develop an equal if not superior threat capability to balance the superiority of the U.S., which in turn creates a threat to the satellites that might not have existed in the first place.160 The defensive theory is a twist of that original argument. It argues that creating an effective satellite defense to a demonstrated contemporary threat only encourages the adversary country to improve on the threat, thus leading to the arms race. <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">It argues that creating an effective satellite defense to a demonstrated contemporary threat only encourages the adversary country to improve on the threat, thus leading to the arms race. First, this line of thought assumes that the impetus causing the adversary to create space weapons in the first place can be abated or removed, and that only by making the adversary feel a greater or unreasonable risk does the arms race begin. While America has not placed weapons or even unassailable defenses in space yet, potential adversaries are feeling threatened by U.S. space dominance. It is unrealistic that the U.S. will forego the strategic and tactical advantages that space represents, or will willingly give up the dominance it enjoys today. It is exactly that dedication to space dominance that is making nations like China and North Korea turn to ASAT technology.161 While U.S. weaponization of space in order to gain an offensive initiative can certainly be argued against, the only viable means to protect already threatened satellites is to improve defenses or suffer the consequences. ASAT threats against U.S. satellites already exist and the adversary countries have demonstrated a desire to use them, if necessary. The U.S. cannot afford to do nothing about the threat and hope that it will never be challenged in space dominance. Even reversing space policy today and negotiating a treaty to ban all ASAT weapons would not physically prevent an adversary country from secretly building a robust ASAT capability while the U.S. rests on its laurels. Arguing diplomatically that the adversary country was in violation of a signed treaty would provide little comfort as U.S. satellites continued to be disabled or destroyed. By fielding a defensive system that mitigates or negates the effectiveness of a threat, the adversary country will become less inclined to risk war with the U.S. by employing ASATs if they could not guarantee some reasonable expectation of success. There is little evidence that specifically placing defenses onboard satellites will suddenly cause a space arms race to spiral out of control. Space systems are already protected through various means including threat of an air or surface attack, small maneuvers, configuration changes and others. These defensive measures exist today and a space arms race (if one exists at all) is proceeding at a relatively measured pace. Some can argue that U.S. DCS measures today are spurring the improvement of ASATs worldwide, but it is just as valid to point to inevitable strategic balancing that usually occurs against empires and hegemons throughout history as a stimulus for contemporary ASAT development. Second, there is a simple economic balance that prevents a space arms race from spiraling out of control, especially when matching adversarial offensive threats against competing domestic defensive capability. Secretary of the Air Force, Michael Wynne, explained the economic math, “’I can’t afford as a nation to just do an exchange ratio where they send up a $100 million [ASAT] missile and I send up a $1.5 billion satellite.’”162 What the U.S. could afford, however, is to spend $45 million to neutralize the effect of the $100 million ASAT in protection of the $1.5 billion satellite. Most of the defenses proposed would cost less than or equal to the cost of a destructive ASAT. If they are effective and negate the usefulness of the threat ASAT, then the adversary has to increase spending to improve their ASAT. Typically that improvement cost is proportional to cost of the original system, in this case starting at $100 million. The same generally holds true for the defensive improvements. Therefore, the next spiral in the arms race would equate to a $200 million ASAT to attack a $1.5 billion satellite protected by a $100 million defensive system. And, much like the cold war, the U.S. would be in a position to outspend most any foreseeable adversary and neutralize the threat. That is based upon the assumption, of course, that defensive improvements could keep pace with offensive improvements technologically. Outpacing the potential adversary threat is exactly the goal of this proposal. </span>The arguments against additional defensive measures may spark interest initially but, once examined, have limited rationale that would warrant abandoning satellite self-defense development and employment. However, lacking good reasons against improving the defense of satellites does not imply that the measures should therefore be developed. The Benefits of Chasing Additional Defensive Measures The first and most obvious advantage of developing timely and responsive satellite defenses is that America’s critical space capability would be preserved. Some of the technologies like increasing redundancy or whipple bumpers and nanotechnology can provide additional protection not only against ASATs but against a whole host of natural electromagnetic and projectile events that occur every day. Since nature can sometimes represent the biggest threat to the largest number of U.S. satellites, the additional protection ensures the availability of space exploitation when needed. The expeditionary nature of the American military depends greatly upon space for command and control, and modern military battlefields almost require precision weapons, many of which are also dependent upon space assets. Unfettered space support is necessary for the U.S. military to continue to function as it has over the past decade and predicted to do so in the future. Many of the technologies presented as possible near-term candidates have been developed for terrestrial application. Just as the technology transfer can go from air assets to space assets, so can the applications of some of the technologies developed for protecting satellites. The miniaturization and autonomous processing that will inevitably precipitate from micro- and nano-satellite development can greatly aid unmanned aircraft development in addition to other air, sea, and ground platforms.163 Aircraft could be made lighter and more capable. Ships could conserve space for additional supplies and ground vehicles could be made more reliable and have more room to carry additional equipment or supplies. Nanotechnology shielding could produce new means of concealing military vehicles from a vast array of sensors including from electronic sniffers.164 Just as the space race of the 1960s produced a great deal of spin off technologies, not just for NASA, but for the U.S. military and for the civilian population as well. Similar spin offs can be reasonably expected from developing effective satellite ASAT defense. Lastly, building an overwhelming defense may actually discourage adversary nations from pursuing offensive capabilities against the U.S.165 “If a weapon is vulnerable, yet capable of dramatically affecting the outcome of a conflict, the state that possesses it has an even more powerful incentive to employ the weapon early on in a conflict”166 Conversely, if a weapon is vulnerable and not capable of affecting the outcome of a conflict, which satellite self-defense would achieve against current generation ASATS, then there would be little motivation to resort to ASATs.

A firm commitment to ORS is vital to credible deterrence by denial – nations will see attacking as net counterproductive
Sejba, 10 - USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])

The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,” no longer is a sanctuary outside the reach of foreign intervention. The threat to space systems and their capabilities is broad, ranging from reversible effects such as jamming or blinding, to more destructive means such as anti-satellite weapons. It is now time to take actions for the //sake of space//, and assure its continued contributions across the full spectrum of military operations. Given the criticality of space to not only our military power, but also our economic power, it is time we develop policies and field capabilities to deter future adversaries from attempting to degrade, deny, or destroy space capabilities and services. The asymmetric advantages enabled by space can no longer be assumed and as a result, a new National Security Strategy for space must be forged, one that combines deterrence with basic protection capabilities never before afforded our space systems. Yet, space deterrence is not an “all in” strategy, nor can it reduce the risk of attack to zero.1 Should aspects of deterrence fail, we must take steps to defend and protect our space systems and the critical global services they provide. Operationally responsive space (ORS) by definition is “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of joint force commanders’ needs.”2 Dissected further, one key word stands out: //assured// … being sufficiently robust, timely, agile, adaptive, and resilient, to achieve desired outcomes with a high degree of certainty.3 So while ORS intends to provide operational and tactical support to the joint warfighter, its true value will be the assurance it provides as a credible strategic deterrent against space attacks. As a deterrent, ORS provides access to existing capabilities, or rapid deployment and employment of new capabilities, denying the benefits our adversaries may seek by attacking our space capabilities. Through timely and accurate intelligence, we can work to understand our adversaries’ intent and armed with this knowledge, we gain the opportunity to influence their decision-making calculus. Understanding intent, coupled with credible and timely ORS capabilities, can effectively deny or greatly reduce the benefits they seek by attacking the asymmetric advantages enabled by space. ORS provides a responsiveness that will allow the commander, US Strategic Command (CDR USSTRATCOM), to respond and support our combatant commands real-time and near-term requirements. To support these requirements, ORS consists of three tiers of capabilities: Tier 1, the employment of existing capabilities within minutes to hours; Tier 2, the rapid call-up, launch and deployment of tailored, ready to field capabilities within days to weeks; and finally, Tier 3, the rapid development of a new capability to meet a combatant commander’s joint urgent operational need within months to a year. The Unified Command Plan assigns CDR USSTRATCOM the responsibility for all military space. The space systems under his authority and control provide our warfighters increased speed, precision, and lethality in military operations. In 2007, during an Air Force Association speech in Los Angeles, California, General C. Robert Kehler, commander, Air Force Space Command and former deputy commander, USSTRATCOM, stated that the biggest difference between 25 years ago and today, was that “space today is embedded in combat operations.”4 ORS’ strategic deterrent value has the potential to be just as important to future combat operations. Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When Applied to Space For years, deterrence theory centered solely on nuclear deterrence strategies, which relied heavily on threats of punishment and unacceptable losses or mutually assured destruction. These strategies effectively deterred the use of nuclear weapons throughout the Cold War to present day. However, strategies of threatening devastating nuclear retaliation do not apply to space. In fact, a deterrence strategy that includes the threat of punishment (i.e., impose cost) should be just one, if not a limited aspect of deterrence for space. For almost half a century, nuclear deterrence strategies formed the foundation for the Cold War waged between the US and the former Soviet Union. Both superpowers relied on the threat of nuclear weapons to deter even conventional military actions, for fear of rapid escalation. In its most unlimited form, mutual assured destruction was a key deterrence strategy; a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both the attacker and the defender.5 While nuclear weapons continue to be a strategic deterrent, the same destructive thought process and strategy is not directly applicable to space.6 Today, some theorists focus and apply more punishing or destructive deterrence practices and thinking to the space domain. They view credible deterrence in space as relying upon the threat of punishment against an aggressor; going so far as to suggest that an attack against us could be countered with an attack in kind. One specific definition limits deterrence to an “attempt to persuade an adversary by threat of force (and other measures) not to pursue an undesirable course of action.”7 Another theorist states, “Deterrence can only succeed if the enemy finds the threat of punishment to be believable.”8 These approaches are less likely to deter for space, especially given our dependence upon the domain. For example, destroying an adversary’s satellite, especially one in an operational orbit, would create a large debris field, potentially hampering or denying our own ability to access space. Instead, deterrence for space can only succeed if our enemies believe we have credible means of denying the benefits they seek to gain. Space deterrence theory should focus on credible ways and means to deny an enemy the benefits they seek; impose costs on our adversaries (against their most prized assets);9 and encourage their restraint. A New Focus of Deterrence //What does deterrence look like in the 21st century? The US has not yet figured that out, said Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “You need something that deters a conflict, and you need more choices than just nuclear. ~// Sandra I. Erwin, //Future of War—How the Game is Changing … Our deterrence strategy no longer rests primarily on the grim premise of inflicting devastating consequences on potential foes.…// ~ US National Security Strategy, 2006 In fact, the US does have new and plausible thoughts on 21st century deterrence. Authored under the leadership of General Cartwright, then commander of USSTRATCOM, and signed out in December 2006, the Deterrence Operations Joint Operating Concept (DO-JOC) is the Department of Defense’s (DoD) latest view on deterrence. This approach extends beyond traditional nuclear deterrence theory, which dates back to the heralded days of Strategic Air Command. The DO-JOC states that the purpose or objective of deterrence operations is to “convince adversaries not to take actions that threaten US vital interests by means of decisive influence over their decision-making.”10 In order to influence our adversaries’ decision-making calculus, it focuses on and integrates three key elements: Deny the benefits the adversary seeks; impose costs the adversary fears; and encourage adversary restraint (by convincing them that restraint will result in an acceptable outcome).11 Of these three elements, denying the benefit should be our focus when fielding new ORS capabilities. Deterrence today can only succeed if our adversaries find ORS credible enough to enable military operations even in a contested environment. Deny the Benefits—ORS Tier 1 and Tier 2 Examples //People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space: Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict.// ~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12 The purpose to benefit denial is to convince an adversary that their intent will not be achieved, or have little to no value. Today, our ability to field ORS capabilities is minimal at best, and unconvincing as a credible deterrent. Instead, our adversaries likely perceive great benefit in attempting to deny the US’ space capabilities. These benefits, also referred to as “vulnerabilities gaps,”13 are reasons why we must pursue ORS with an increased sense of urgency. However, for benefit denial to be viewed as a credible deterrent, the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Study states “our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack.”14 The space and cyberspace domains are increasingly important to how current and future wars will be fought and won. As recently as 4 November 2009, the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) top Air Force Commander, Xu Qiliang, called the militarization of space an “historical inevitability.”15 This statement came on the heels of an historic visit to USSTRATCOM by General Xu Chihou, one of two vice chairmen of the PRC’s Central Military Commission. During this visit, General Kevin P. Chilton encouraged increased cooperation and comprehensive bilateral relationships between the two space-faring nations.16 Statements from Qiliang and actions such as the 2007 anti-satellite test highlight a growing disconnect between the PRC’s actions and stated policies, increasing concern amongst US leaders and lending credence to the need for new deterrence practices. Moving forward, to be a true deterrent, ORS must also win the race to space in both the speed and cost of fielding capability versus our adversaries’ attempts to counter, destroy, or deny them. Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible role in deterring adverse actions against our space capabilities: (1) International cooperation and partnerships through shared space capabilities (Tier 1) and (2) the ability to rapidly augment or replace some aspect of existing on-orbit ISR assets in low Earth orbit (Tier 2). Tier 1 and Two ORS capabilities can be deployed and employed rapidly, within hours to days. The cost for Tier 1 includes implementing new concept of operations for deployed on-orbit systems, or the rapid, low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2.

Creating large constellations of small satellites solves launch costs, radiation vulnerabilities, and inevitable ASAT attacks
Armstrong 10—Major, IDE Student (Mekesha, March, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)

The US’s increasing economic and military reliance on space creates a vulnerability that is an attractive target for foreign adversaries. If enemies employ offensive counterspace operations -operations which are intended to deceive, disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy US space systems -the force multiplication effect US assets provide would be reduced or eliminated. 25 Large complex satellite systems must be protected from enemy offensive counterspace operations, while small less-expensive satellite systems may be viewed as “expendable” if their numbers mean one inoperable satellite is not a single point of failure for the system. As most current space missions have a small (mission vulnerable) constellation of large, complex systems, policy supports the need for protection. The recently released National Security Space Policy (NSSS) insists on hardening satellites against kinetic and electronic attack and maintaining redundant satellites ready to launch and rapidly replace those destroyed. 26 As we invest in next generation space capabilities and fill gaps in current capabilities, we will include resilience as a key criterion in evaluating alternative architectures. Resilience can be achieved in a variety of ways, to include cost effective space system protection, cross-domain solutions, hosting payloads on a mix of platforms in various orbits, drawing on distributed international and commercial partner capabilities, and developing and maturing responsive space capabilities. – National Security Space Strategy, Jan 2011 27 China has proven that they can shoot down a satellite in orbit. Experts now believe that this kind of anti-satellite technology is within reach of rogue states or well-funded terrorist groups, using a medium range missile, a college-level team of individuals and some crude, yet effective, technology. 28 Kinetic damage to a satellite is not the only threat; electronic attack on the communications and links or targeting/sabotaging ground segments are simple means of disrupting the billion-dollar assets the military heavily depends on. While any satellite is vulnerable to a direct-ascent anti-satellite weapon (ASAT) attack, it is costly to install protection measures. For that reason, it was found that only some of the national military satellites have built-in security and countermeasures that increase both weight and cost of the program. 29 Analysts estimate that satellite hardening would increase the total system cost by between two and five percent. 30 Increased maneuverability (thrusters, etc) may be an effective counter for a direct-ascent anti-satellite weapon. However, the added thrusters and fuel again increases weight and cost. Analysts estimate that to add maneuverability to a satellite system would increase the total system cost by between 10 - 20% depending on the satellite altitude (warning time), nature of the threat, and threat detection efficiency. 31 For single-mission satellites, it may be argued that the short design life doesn’t warrant these increased costs when considered with the probability of anti-satellite kinetic or jamming attack. Instead of hardening, it could be viewed as strategically beneficial to exponentially increase the number of space targets for our enemies that might attack our satellite systems. While the “basic” spacecraft may not be hardened for attack, by increasing the number of targets it makes it virtually impossible to fully destroy the mission. If some satellites are lost in an attack, a robust production line is accessible to replace the inexpensive assets. Subsumptive, large constellations of small satellites is an advantageous idea that military doctrine writers and acquirers should begin considering. Another danger to our spacecraft is the by-product of a high altitude nuclear burst (above 100 km altitude). Large quantities of highly radioactive debris, in the form of expanding plasma that strongly interacts with the Earth's magnetic field, can interfere and degrade our space capabilities. Considering the risk of this threat, hardening of a space system is the single most effective survivability measure. 32 The technologies to harden against damage from nuclearweapons effects exists, however, this complex level of hardening is only used for a few large military satellites, such as MILSTAR. Most of the hardening programs are focused on electronic component hardening to protect satellites from natural environment effects. However, advanced concepts have been proposed for protection against an attack by lasers. If the satellite could be a single point of failure for the mission, the US must advance hardening technology to increase satellite survivability against nuclear, high-power microwave, and neutral particle beam weapons. Satellites are also vulnerable to radiation that is naturally present in the Earth’s Van Allen radiation belts. Satellite designers must consider radiation hardness of electronic components in the design of satellites so the vehicles can pass through these radiation belts with little to no degradation. The radiation dose a satellite receives is dependent on its altitude. 33 Electronic devices must be radiation-hardened to sustain the hostile environment of space. Once the hardware has been tested successfully, it is considered “space-qualified” and may be used on a military satellite. Radiation hardening is a cost driver as well as a performance killer, since newer Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) products, that are not space-qualified, provide much better processing power than the much older, yet space-qualified, products. 34 Spreading capabilities around space to ensure that one satellite doesn’t become a single point of failure in an attack, known as disaggregation, allows spacecraft designers to shed extra satellite protection measures, thereby decreasing weight. Defense Advanced Research Project’s (DARPA) F-6 concept exploits disaggregation by parsing different subsystems on separate, smaller satellites. 35 A concept mentioned in the Jan 2011 National Security Space Strategy, the sensor may be on one satellite with the communications link on another, etc – all tied together with a broadband connection. 36 The project aims to replace traditional "monolithic" spacecraft with clusters of wirelessly-interconnected spacecraft modules. The principal objective is the ability to resist or survive a variety of natural and manmade threats like anti-satellite weapons. 37 If one component falters, the whole system does not necessarily fail. This makes the system more difficult to attack yet easier to enhance. F-6 is derived from a number of terms used to describe the program: future, fast, flexible, fractionated, and free-flying. 38 DARPA is spending $185 million on the second and third phases of the F-6 program and hope to launch an operational demonstration in 2013. 39 Additionally, satellite complexity is reduced by dismantling the complex system into less complex pieces, a benefit to protection as well as system development and risk. “Since the components are spread out over a larger swath of space, an enemy cannot take out the entire system with an anti-satellite weapon. If one component fails, the operator would only have to replace one of the satellites instead of the entire system. Another benefit will be allowing small satellite manufacturers to compete for contracts.” - Deputy Secretary of Defense Lynn, referring to the F6 program 40 Finally, consider that a constellation of many small satellites has advantages in numbers one small satellite is vulnerable but many together are power. Could military strategists accept a concept of expendable satellites? Simply put, small, inexpensive satellites may be cheap enough to lose in a counterspace offensive attack, nuclear burst, or other radiation anomaly. Large satellite constellations acquired in small numbers do not capitalize on a small, inexpensive satellite’s insignificance. Acquisition The current acquisition process has decades of experience in building large, complex space systems. Still, with many years of practice, it is difficult to deliver large, multi-mission satellite systems on-time and on-budget. Senior leaders continue to drive home the fact that new technologies must be fielded on-time and on-budget. Congress singled out the cumbersome and expensive process of building satellites as a leading example of how major acquisition programs fail to produce requirements in a timely manner. Two years ago, Secretary of Defense Gates cancelled Transformational-Satellite (TSAT), a $26 billion program, after its schedule slipped by four years. 41 Large satellite programs must normally start from scratch and these clean designs require more money and more time. Unlike many of our military purchases, large satellite systems are not ordered in large quantities and cannot take advantage of economies of scale such as a product built on an assembly line. Communications satellites, for example, may be produced once every one or two years. 42 Satellite programs grow out of control because military and intelligence analysts want to fit as many capabilities as possible on one spacecraft, causing requirements “creep.” It is expensive to launch a satellite and once it is in orbit, it could be there for 15 years or more delivering enormous pressure that comes with one shot to get it right. Clearly this process is not the most efficient to accomplish defense needs, so we continue to refine it. In 2004, spiral or incremental development was adopted as a “preferred” space acquisition standard according to DoD Directive 5000.01, and primarily exercised on large, complex satellite systems such as MILSTAR and GPS. Are the multi-missions on the current large satellite systems truly a required “spiral” of development or are they simply a push to have the best, most innovative spacecraft -- driving acquirers to larger, more complex systems? A good illustration of this issue comes from the failure of the National Reconnaissance Office’s Future Imagery Architecture (FIA) program. These huge, pricey satellites offer extremely detailed resolution and calibrated meticulously precise sensors, however with numerous intelligence requirements from competing agencies the initial design of the optical system for the satellite was so elaborate, the engineers building it said it would not work. There is wide agreement that FIA sunk under enormous data demands and technological risk. The program was terminated in September of 2005 with cost estimates of $18-billion, leaving the nation with a fragile, dwindling constellation of aging imaging satellites, integral to intelligence and military operations, which were designed in the 1970s. 43 Should we just build smaller, more basic, systems? Instead of building one complex multimission spacecraft with multiple sensors on a spacecraft larger than a bus, build three or four smaller, simpler spacecraft that host their own sensors. Additional simplification is available with fractioned systems, like the F6 program discussed earlier in this paper. Fractionated systems can mitigate launch risks by spreading component launches over a number of smaller launch vehicles instead of one large one. If these small, single-mission fractionated satellites share a common bus or other components, economies of scale will drive down production costs compared to building a few larger spacecraft. Additionally, government agencies are now saving money by paying commercial satellites to piggyback a military component on their spacecraft. 44 While these “hosted payloads” can save money, there are security implications that must be acknowledged. Successfully proven in the last year, an SES Americom communications satellite hosted an Air Force sensor at a fraction of the cost of sending up a free-flying spacecraft. The Commerce Department’s Office of Space Commercialization said adding the sensor to the satellite answered about 80% of the technical questions the Air Force needed to answer. At a price tag of $65 million, it saved an estimated $435 million by “hitching a ride” on the Americom satellite. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the Coast Guard have also used hosted payloads. 45 Large satellites will not disappear quickly; however, a new method of acquisition must be codified to ensure the military is delivering its space capabilities on-time and on-budget. If acquirers continue to contract large, multi-mission satellite systems, sticking to solid, basic requirements is a must. However, other options are gaining momentum. Multiple, single-basic satellites that crosslink to become a single system, fractionated small satellites, or even commercial piggybacking must be considered if the U.S military wants to continue to maintain the ultimate high ground -- space.

ORS stimulates commercial launch markets and substantially lowers launch costs – in addition to creating credible deterrence by denial
<span style="color: black;">Colón</span><span style="color: #101010;">, 10 - </span><span style="color: black;">Lt Col, USAF, former </span>Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral AFS, <span style="color: black;">served as the deputy commander 595th Space Group responsible for the operational testing of space and missile weapon systems until leaving for his present assignment at the Air War College (Miguel, “ DETERRENCE 2035 –THE ROLE OF TRANSPARENCY AND DIVERSITY IN A WORLD OF NANOSATS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org]])</span>

A New Approach to Space Deterrence <span style="color: black;">The book entitled //Complex Deterrence// states that deterrence works best among major great-powers and is therefore ineffective against rogue groups or terrorists.35 Thus, deterrence must evolve beyond the threat of potential costs imposed by a punishment strategy. Expressed mathematically, deterrence is comprised of gains (G) sought by the adversary and the cost imposed by punishment (C). Thus, if G > C the actor attacks and if C > G he does not. Usually deterrence concentrates on making the cost or punishment so great that the potential aggressor will not attack. This approach will not work for space because an attack is extraordinarily difficult to attribute to any adversary. For example, in 1998, PANAMSAT’s Galaxy IV satellite experienced a battery anomaly leading to a satellite failure that left nearly 40 million customers without paging services.36 What if this incident was not caused by the battery anomaly? Who then attacked the satellite and how? For deterrence to work, one must gather convincing evidence that attributes the attack to someone specific. Lack of attribution will convince the adversary to attack. First, the probability of a nation-state counterattacking, without demonstrable evidence, is low. Second, the inability to rapidly identify the responsible party reduces the probability of retribution thereby increasing the potential gains to an aggressor. As technology miniaturizes satellites, the potential target becomes smaller, cheaper and can effectively hide in the clutter of space debris. For this reason, the approach to space deterrence must concentrate on significantly reducing the perceived gain (G) or success to be won by an adversary. The conditions must be such that it becomes manifestly clear; attacking another asset in space is pointless and counterproductive. Space deterrence must revolve around two concepts: //transparency// and //diversity//. //Transparency//, or the ability to see without obstruction the events that occur in space, creates a peaceful environment which promotes understanding and accountability. Theoretically, when information is released, under the auspices of transparency, it produces an informed and engaged public, one that will hold a culprit accountable. 37 The ability to monitor and understand the rapidly changing conditions in space is critical to the preservation of security in space. While the US developed its current satellite capabilities in compliance with international rules and treaties it also deemed it prudent to develop a space surveillance network to monitor all near space activity and ensure a secure environment for all space faring nations. This network, of ground and space based sensors, provides radar and optical data used to characterize the mission of any satellite, identify the class and type or to simply aid in anomaly resolution.38 Currently, ground systems can track objects with a resolution of 12cm or greater39 making it challenging to track nanosats. Air Force Space Command’s 2030 vision is enabled by technological improvement. It includes upgrades to existing sensors and an increase in the number of space-based optical sensors in an attempt to provide persistent and complete coverage of the near space domain. The resolution of near-term upgrades will improve to 1cm increasing the ability to track nanosatellites.40 In order to ensure safe space operations and uphold its commitment to cooperation with other nations and the peaceful use of space, the US consistently provides the orbit positional data41 via a public website accessible by anyone. The principles and goals stated in the national space policy highlight the nation’s vision of leading the way in space surveillance in order to promote and provide a safe operating environment for machines and people.42 In the end, for transparency to work, space situational awareness must allow analysts to identify deliberate actions by a spacecraft and its owners and ultimately predict, detect, and attribute an attack43. The second concept in space deterrence is //diversity.// It provides a tailored approach, focusing on minimizing the impact of an attack, also known as graceful degradation, consequently driving the perceived gains (G) for the adversary as close to zero as possible. Diversity can be achieved through large networked constellations of space-based assets complimenting the existing ground based sensors, with a distributed architecture so that destruction of one or even several satellites does not take down the entire system. In the past, the US employed the costly approach of maintaining on-orbit spares, hardening on-board components, enhancing uplink and downlink encryption to increase satellite and signal survivability.44 In the future, nanotechnology will facilitate redundancy and rapid reconstitution. Presently, several companies, including the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, are currently demonstrating the technology. By 2035, on-orbit repair along with the robotic on-orbit refueling of satellites will become standard. Spacecraft will use autonomous navigation and conduct housekeeping tasks independent of a ground station. This is especially useful in the event of a communication failure or loss of the ground segment. Moreover, rapid reaction maneuvering capability will allow spacecraft to evade kinetic kill vehicles. The cornerstone of resilience is agile, capable, and functional technology able to diminish an adversary’s gain while increasing the cost of an attack – success in both enables deterrence. Above all, the space industrial base must grow to deliver the technical transformation required to employ this new approach to deterrence. </span>Recommendations <span style="color: black;">The US was shocked by a technological surprise on 4 October 1957 when the Soviet Union launched //Sputnik//, a 184 pound satellite, into orbit on top of a rocket weighing nearly 4 tons. In contrast, the //Vanguard// satellite the US developed and had yet to launch weighed only 3.5 pounds.45 //Sputnik// completely collapsed the technological comfort zone the US. It heated up the Cold War as peoples’ fear grew over what the Soviets might do next; the strategic deterrence calculus was fundamentally altered. Today the US has the opportunity to shape the future and set conditions for effective space deterrence. </span>Reconstituting and energizing the space industrial base is critical to future deterrence<span style="color: black;">. Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 2-2 states, “Operators and planners must know as quickly as possible the origin of any anomaly and be able to identify and geolocate the threat in a timely manner.”46 In order to meet the intent of AFDD 2-2 the US must embrace the goals identified in the National Space Policy, most importantly to “enable a robust science and technology base supporting national security.”47 Without industrial base growth, the international community’s influence will grow and undermine the nation’s future space security. The US cannot allow its own space industry to abrogate its role in national security nor can it continue to set conditions through ITAR and national policies which leave industry with little choice but to divest itself of its space tools. The US government must focus on the following areas: improving space situational awareness, miniaturizing spacecraft and launch vehicles, promoting innovation and risk taking in technology development, and improving export control policies and procedures. First, the key enabler for transparency is space situational awareness. Today’s space surveillance network is composed of diverse sensors to include tracking radars, optical telescopes and space-based visible sensors. To prepare for tomorrow’s smaller target upgrades are required. The W-band upgrade to the Haystack sensor in Massachusetts increases the ground-based sensor’s collection bandwidth from 1GHz to 8 GHz thereby improving its resolution from 25 cm to 1cm and facilitating the tracking of nanosatellites.48 Although the upgrade is significant for the ground-based sensor network, it must be complimented with additional space based capabilities. In this instance, miniaturization becomes a force multiplier as it allows the next generation of space-based space surveillance to be configured with full motion video. Ground-based sensors can tip-off the space-based sensor to track a specific target. The video’s dynamic feedback can in turn provide greater insight into the intent of the adversary as it observes the target. CubeSat has already demonstrated the ability of one nanosat to take a picture of another (figure 3). Consequently, a successful deterrence strategy is dependent on the surveillance network’s ability to identify threats, characterize the potential damage, determine an aggressor’s intent and ultimately attribute the action to the adversary. Second, CubeSat redefined the approach to building satellites through the development of standard building modules and taking advantage of the latest breakthroughs in nanotechnology. This approach makes CubeSat the model for “smaller, cheaper, and faster”. The US government must adopt a similar approach. While tradeoffs are necessary, government interest and investment in the many facets of the space should allow for good decisions about when a technology is “good enough” to satisfy mission and national security requirements. The approach facilitates decreasing the size of satellites, increasing spacecraft redundancy and allowing a higher number of satellites per constellation thereby complicating the targeting equation for the adversary. Its centerpiece focused on driving down the adversary’s perceived gain (G) closer to zero. This approach will increase diversity and future space deterrence effectiveness within a dynamic security environment. Third, advanced miniaturization is creating a growing market for a very small, capable launch vehicle. As CubeSat gains momentum, it creates a strong market dynamic for a very 17 small and highly responsive launch vehicle. Currently, most CubeSats are launched on decommissioned Russian rockets as secondary payloads49. Up to this point, companies like Eurokot and Kosmotras have kept the launch cost to no more than $40K per CubeSat. As demand rises and slots for secondary payloads become scarce, the cost of each CubeSat will inexorably rise. Sensing a growing need for CubeSats, launch companies are developing a two-stage liquid propellant, launch vehicle capable of delivering 10 kg to a 250 kilometer polar orbit. If successful, such a capability will increase launch market share for the US space industry, enhance growth in other areas and lower launch costs.50 Affordable launch enables satellite replenishment. Even if the adversary destroys a satellite, the spacecraft can be quickly replaced minimizing the impact of the attack. Fourth, changes to US export control laws are required. The primary agencies governing export control are the Department of State (DOS) and the Department of Commerce (DOC). The DOS is responsible for maintaining the US’ munitions list which is used to identify which products or services are subject to export controls. Currently, satellites and all related space technologies are under DOS jurisdiction.51 However, DOS is not the most knowledgeable agency with regard to spacecraft or the associated technology and it uses ITAR to implement requirements established in the arms Export Control Act. According to the Defense Industrial Base Assessment on the US space industry, “US manufacturers have not introduced a new satellite bus since the Boeing 702 was developed in 1999. In contrast, European manufacturers have introduced 3 new busses in the last 5 years and are currently developing a 4th.”52 Players within the space industry argue that the US market share dipped from approximately 70% in 1995 to 25% in 2005. Compliance with export control cost US companies an average of $49M per year from 2003-2006.53 This cost was not applicable to foreign 18 competitors. Clearly, export controls provide foreign competitors an advantage in marketing to non-US customers because they limit what can be bought and who can buy it. It can also control the actions of the authorized buyers and users in terms of what they can use the technology for and whom they can share the technology with. Such restrictions adversely affect a US company’s ability to compete in foreign space markets consequently opening up opportunities for foreign space ventures whose governments are not as particular about how technology is used or who buys it.54 In the end, international competition is critical in order to reduce costs, preserve US dominance, forge closer relationships in order to globalize and thereby protect the use of space for all benevolent users. It enables an advanced form of deterrence denying the adversary the option of attacking. In short, space technology must move off the munitions list and into its own category which protects the technology that needs protecting while allowing the US space industrial base to sell non-critical space technology internationally. </span>Conclusion <span style="color: black;">Current developments in the field of nanotechnology are highlighting pathways for spacecraft to become smaller and ultimately affordable. As nanotechnology helps solve the problems of spacecraft mass, volume, and power consumption, national leaders must not lose sight of the fact that it is also opening access to space to virtually anyone. Adversaries understand the US’ increasing space reliance and will challenge the medium especially if it provides an audience and even worldwide recognition for their cause. As future adversaries benefit from smaller, lighter, and affordable satellites, the US must invest in an approach that 19 relies on //transparency// and //diversity// as the backbone of a strong deterrence posture to meet the threat in 2035. This new approach to space deterrence concentrates on significantly reducing the perceived gain (G) or success to be won by an adversary instead of solely focusing on the traditional approach of punishment. In order to lower the adversary’s perceived gain, the US’ future ability to deter an attack rests on a space surveillance network that allows for the identification and persistent tracking of miniaturized spacecrafts thereby highlighting intent and ultimately attributing an action to a specific actor. Equally important, the US must embrace nanotechnology as the cornerstone to materials magnifying ways for spacecraft to become smaller, lighter, and affordable while further developing the space industry base. Furthermore, nanotechnology will enable diversity or added redundancy in the more autonomous spacecraft and increase survivability in space while lessening dependency on ground stations making the perceived gains (G) of attacking the ground infrastructure close to zero. Lastly, export control reform will allow nanotechnology to power the industrial base engine and minimize the potential for a nation-state, group or individual actor to create a strategic shock to the space sector. After Sputnik’s voyage, public opinion blamed the government for not doing enough and ultimately risking US’ national security. The response was a significant increase in funding for military and civil space. In a post-9/11 world, the US cannot allow another technological surprise to occur, especially one perpetrated by non-state actors availing themselves of readily available and inexpensive space capabilities that can be used in ways to fundamentally alter the deterrence calculus. Once again, a significant commitment is required to strengthen the space industry and set the conditions needed for success in 2035. The natural deterrent created by high launch costs is disappearing and the ability to monitor and understand the rapidly changing 20 conditions in space continues to be critical to the preservation of national security. In short, the nation’s best technological approach for future space deterrence lies in becoming the world leader in the application of nanotechnology. It will increase the industrial base, lower launch costs, improve transparency and diversity ultimately setting the conditions for the deterrence calculus to tip in favor of the United States. Only then will the adversary’s gain/loss assessment dictate not </span>to attack; effectively deterring him.



=Negative= 

===UN Bill Politics=== 

**Republicans are pushing a UN Bill that cuts funding for the organization. Obama has threatened to Veto it. It will not make it through the Senate now.**

**New York Sun, Oct 16, 2011**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [It’s Clinton v. Ros-Lehtinen http://www.nysun.com/editorials/its-clinton-v-ros-lehtinen/87525/ </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">It looks like the</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">efforts to reform U.S. funding ... </span>__kleptocrats, and anti-Semites in the United Nations know where America stands.

**Political capital is key to Veto Credibility – it will deter Congress from acting against the President**

**Lee 05 - The Rose Institute of State & Local Government – Claremont McKenna College**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Presented at the Georgia Political Science Association 2005 Conference Andrew, “Invest or Spend?:Political capital and Statements of Administration Policy in the First Term of the George W. Bush Presidency,” http://a-s.clayton.edu/trachtenberg/2005%20Proceedings%20Lee.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Congressional Anticipation ... </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">in political capital (“Bush Vows Stem Cell Veto” 2005).</span>



**UN bill kills US hegemony – leadership and cooperation**



**Associated Press, Oct 13, 2011**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [http://www.forbes.com/feeds/ap/2011/10/13/business-us-congress-united-nations_8732541.html Clinton opposes GOP UN bill, raises veto threat By DONNA CASSATA </span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Wednesday warned House Republicans about pushing ahead with a bill to cut ...</span>
__for all its imperfections, (it) is indispensable to advancing" U.S. goals.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Although Clinton raised the specter of a presidential veto, the legislation has little chance in the Democratic-controlled Senate.</span>


**Declining hegemony causes global war – it risks unstably multipolarity, Chinese aggression and miscalculation – empirically**



**Khalilzad, 2011 – former director of planning at the Defense Department**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Zalmay February 8, 2011 The Economy and National Security Accessed July 29 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1]]</span> The National Review Online]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">If U.S. policymakers fail to act and other powers ...</span>
__the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.__