[[toc]]
=Weaponization Disad= 

==1NC== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration … … Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a given nation … … future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that … …</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with … …the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__

=Orbital Slots= 

==1NC== 

**The plan causes conflicts over orbital slots – that breaks the OST**
**Wallach 10** – JD, Partner at Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP, where he serves as Co-Chair of the Litigation Group of more than 40 attorneys
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, “Legal Issues for Space Based Solar Power,” Online Journal of Space Communication, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/wallach.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Another major, yet still largely undeveloped… …or what criteria will be used to make those decisions. </span>

**Those conflicts create space miscalculation**
**Klotz 99**—Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command, Barksdale Air Force Base [Lt. Gen. Frank G. Klotz, Jan 1999, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4]
__The scramble for geosynchronous slots__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … …information infrastructure-</span>__is a case in point.__

**Independently, US withdrawal from the OST destroys it**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hickman and Dolman 2</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Hickman is an associate professor in the Department of Government and International Studies at Berry College in Mt. Berry, Georgia. He has written many papers dealing with space policy and Everett Dolman, Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 2002 (“Resurrecting the Space Age: A State–Centered Commentary on the Outer Space Regime,” Comparative Strategy: Volume 21, Number 1 (2002), Page 20, Available Online to subscribing institutions at http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/014959302317350855)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus a state party need merely announce its intention … …sovereignty in other celestial bodies might follow.</span>

**That’s key to check space weaponization**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinn 08</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.D./M.B.A. Candidate 2010, University of Minnesota Law School and Carlson School of Management, Summer, LexisNexis Acedemic, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,” http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The possibility of space becoming another forum … … successfully delay the introduction of weapons to space.</span>

**Extinction**
**Mitchell, et al 1** -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)

__A buildup of space weapons might begin with … …the most destructive military conflict ever seen.__

==2NC Overview== 

**d) there’s a timeframe distinction – competition over orbital slots occurs before satellites are launched to fill them – means it’s impossible for the aff to access our scenarios for conflict**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pamela L.</span> **Meredith** **and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rachel B.</span> **Trinder**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 6-11-19</span>**98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, co-chair the Space Law Group at the Washington, DC law firm of Zuckert, Scoutt & Rasenberger, L.L.P., advise US and foreign space interests on a variety of regulatory and transactional issues, Meredith also teaches satellite communications law at American University’s law school, and Ms. Trinder is a member of the Executive Committee of the International Institute of Air & Space Law in Leiden, The Netherlands, “Financing a communications satellite venture: assessing regulatory risk is key,” Satellite Finance, Issue 4, [[http://www.zsrlaw.com/publications/articles/rbt980611.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In order to protect the FCC satellite frequency … … be two degrees apart in order to avoid interference.</span>

**And, it turns the entire aff – SPS in GEO is __uniquely vulnerable__ to destruction – if we win conflict happens they don’t solve**
**Pop, 2k** – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf]]</span>)

2.5. Self Defence of SPS At the opposite … … other large industrial complexes or power plants”42.


==2NC Link== 

**And, the link is linear – each satellite deployed exponentially heightens the risks of conflict**
**Hyten 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">John E. [A Sea of Peace or a Theater of War: Dealing with the Inevitable Conflict in Space. Urbana-Champaign, IL: Program in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security, April 2000. “Space War Inevitable Due to Economic Motives” www.spacedebate.org/about/backfileOct.doc] </span>

__The pressures on the space frontier are enormous__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… …</span>__major theater war involving the United States.__

**And, slots need to be __allocated__ – the plan’s unilateral nature creates a fear of space control that guarantees an arms race**
**Wright, 7** - co-director of the Global Security Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists (David, Boston Globe, “Protecting our future in space”, 10/3, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2007/10/03/protecting_our_future_in_space/]]</span>, dml)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">So, in looking forward, we </span>__need to … …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">could spark a quick escalation in a conflict.</span>


==AT: We’re Not in GEO== 

**Either they’re in GEO or they don’t solve –**

**a) The study group for their aff concluded GEO’s normal means for deployment**
**NSSO 8** [National Space Security Office, Space-Based Solar Power Study Group, Ad Astra, “Strategic Importance” Spring 2008, pg. 28, [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Enter the four-decade-old concept of space solar power … …and vulnerabilities of conventional energy systems. </span>

**b) Not enough land for LEO satellites**
**Vishvakarma and** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Chaudhary 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph. D in Electronics Engineering, Professor at BHU, has published more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and a senior member of the IEEE, Professor at the Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University </span>**(**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kalpana, Babau R., “Feasibility study of LEO, GEO and Molniya orbit based satellite solar power station for some identified sites in India”)</span>

__The rectennas for low earth orbit (LEO) … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">four main components are required (Collins, 2000)</span>

**c) Hostile environments**
**Hollaway 11****–**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ph. D, Emeritus Professor of Composite Structures (LC Hollaway, April 1 2011, “Thermoplastic –Carbon Fiber Composites Could Aid Solar-Based Power Generation: Possible Support System for Solar Power Satellites”) JCP</span>

__A structure in a geostationary orbit will experience … …and collisions with micrometeorites and space debris.__

**d) They’re in a double-bind – either they’re in LEO and debris destroys satellites and causes conflicts, or they’re in GEO which triggers the link and mitigates solvency**
**Day 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, The Telegraph, “Space Junk: A Risky Game of Space Invaders”, February 1st, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8135495/Space-junk-a-risky-game-of-space-invaders.html, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When, in the early hours of February 10, 2009… …this could increase fivefold within 10 years.</span>


==AT: SPS Inevitable== 

**Their warrant is Japanese development - that'll be on the moon, not in GEO**
**Daily Mail '11** ("How the Japanese plan to turn the moon into a mirrorball: All of Earth's energy 'to be supplied by lunar ring of solar panels'," Daily Mail (UK), 5-27-2011, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1390682/Plans-gigantic-lunar-ring-solar-panels-beam-energy-Earth-unveiled.html]] ***gender edited)**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It sounds like something out of science fiction … … antennae to transmit the power.</span>**

Development of SSP is unlikely in the next decade
Fan**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, California Institute of Technology Department of Mechanical Engineering, 20</span>**11 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[William, et al, “Solar Power Industry and Technology Assessment” 6/2 [[http://www.pickar.caltech.edu/e103/Final%20Exams/Space%20Based%20Solar%20Power.pdf]]] </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The success space based solar power will be determined … … invest into space based solar power technology. </span>**

Even if other countries deploy SPS – that doesn’t trigger the link – only the unilateral deployment of the plan does
Erb 5 –** Assistant Director, Canadian Space Station Program, CSA, Houston, Texas
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(R. Bryan, “SPACE SOLAR POWER - THE CHALLENGES OF PROMOTING A LONG-TERM OPTION IN AN ENERGY MARKET DRIVEN BY SHORT-TERM CONSIDERATIONS,”, [[http://goo.gl/FiQ8Bm]], dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Considering the challenges discussed, the logical question is… …</span>__resources with other users should also be explored__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




=<span style="color: black;">Politics</span>= 

==<span style="color: black;">1NC Generic Link</span>== 

**Increasing space programs is unpopular – kaboom**
**Handberg 7/25 –** <span style="color: black; font-size: 11.5pt;">Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Roger, “The beginning of the end or the end of the beginning?”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1890/1]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The brief historical overview above illustrates … … How much damage will be done, no one knows.</span>

==Shutdown== 

===1NC - Mich=== 

The plan is a spending appropriation that cannot be cut – in a budgetary environment where all space funding is on the table, that’s uniquely controversial.

**Handberg 7/25 –** <span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger, “The beginning of the end or the end of the beginning?”, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1890/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The brief historical overview above illustrates … … How much damage will be done, no one knows.</span>

Those spending fights derail any chance of a deal on shutdown.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Young, 10/14</span>/11 (JT, Department of Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget from 2001 -2004 and as a Congressional staff member from 1987-2000, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=46859)

Also, the stakes this time are not … … more than there is a painless solution.

Kills the economy.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Weiss '11</span> (Martin, April 7, http://www.investorplace.com/2011/04/government-shutdown-whats-next/)

Make no mistake: <span class="Underline">If the government … …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> that breaks the back of the U.S. economy</span>.

Nuclear war.

Merlini<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">,</span> Senior Fellow – Brookings, 11 [Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe and chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome. He served as IAI president from 1979 to 2001. Until 2009, he also occupied the position of executive vice chairman of the Council for the United States and Italy, which he co-founded in 1983. His areas of expertise include transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology. A Post-Secular World? Survival, 53:2, 117 – 130]

Two neatly opposed scenarios for … …absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.

==SKFTA== 

===1NC - Greenhill=== 

**C. Obama leverage is needed to pass the FTAs in order to make sure they don’t fall through the cracks.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inside US Trade 8/18/11</span> http://insidetrade.com/Inside-US-Trade/Inside-U.S.-Trade-08/19/2011/with-fta-path-forward-still-unclear-quick-action-needed-in-the-fall/menu-id-710.html
If Congress and the White House are to succeed<span class="Underline"> … …</span>does not "fall through the cracks<span class="Underline">" in September.</span>

**D. Impact - Failure to ratify SKFTA crushes the alliance and US leadership in Asia.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Knowlede at Wharton 1/12</span> (University of Pennsylvania newspaper, http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What's more, </span><span class="Underline">the fate of the pact … … The President has put his reputation on the line."</span>

**Alliance is critical to Prevent Korean war.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pritchard et al, 09</span> – President of the Korea Economic Institute (Charles L, 6/16. With John H. Tilelli Jr., Chairman and CEO, Cypress International, and Scott A. Snyder, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Korea Studies, CFR. “A New Chapter for U.S.-South Korea Alliance.” Council on Foreign Relations. http://www.cfr.org/publication/19635/new_chapter_for_ussouth_korea_alliance.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While all eyes have been trained on North Korea's belligerent … …persuade China to put pressure on North Korea.</span>

**Korean conflict Goes nuclear and triggers every impact.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hayes and Green, 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The</span> __consequences of failing to address__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … …warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>


=NASA Tradeoff= 

==1NC== 

**NASA funding is on the brink – JWST means president’s FY 2013 budget will likely include funding for ExoMars and earth science but new spending cuts these**
**Mann 1/5 –** staff contributor for Wired
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Adam, “The New Year in Space: NASA’s Missions and Events in 2012”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2012/01/nasa-2012/?pid=2852&pageid=91306&viewall=true]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There will be much anxiety leading up … …Opportunity Mars rover, and Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter.</span>

**NASA-ESA Mars mission solves colonization – it’s on the brink**
**Smith 11-15-11** –Marcia,, Analyst for space policy online think tank , November 15, “OMB Cited as Obstacle to NASA-ESA Mars Cooperation”, http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=2000:omb-cited-as-obstacle-to-nasa-esa-mars-cooperation&catid=91:news&Itemid=84, NEH)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The hearing by the Subcommittee on Space … … on the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST). </span>

**Extinction**
**Garan, 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Astronaut (Ron, 3/30/10, Speech published in an article by Nancy Atkinson, “The Importance of Returning to the Moon,” [[http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/]], JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Resources and Other Benefits: </span>__Since we live in a world … …i__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">s a sustainable permanent human lunar settlement. </span>

**Earth Sciences cuts cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Killeen 5 – Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]]</span>) NAR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is clear after decades of pioneering satellite observations … …</span><span class="Underline"> reactions of ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses.</span>

==<span class="Underline">2NC Overview</span>== 

**Space colonization – that solves all wars ever by utilizing space resources – that’s Garan – outweighs on magnitude**
**Matheny et al 11 –** Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, with P. Stafforini and Milan Circovic, “Ought we worry about human extinction?”, <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://jgmatheny.org/extinctionethics.htm]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Being capable of preserving sentient life … … justified under standard cost-effectiveness analysis. </span>

**Environmental destruction – it causes multiple scenarios for extinction because we can’t sustain the population – NASA earth sciences are key – that’s Killeen – this outweighs**
**Novacek and Cleland 1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Senior Vice President of the American Museum of Natural History, and Elsa, Assistant Professor in the Section of Ecology, Biology and Evolution at Stanford, “The current biodiversity extinction event: Scenarios for mitigation and recovery,” [[http://www.pnas.org/content/98/10/5466.full]], dml)</span>

<span class="Underline">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> current massive degradation of habitat … … recovery scenarios at several different scales.</span>

**C)Probability—Long timeframes decrease it—the more distant the prediction, the more likely it is to be wrong**
**POSNER 2004** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, </span>__Catastrophe: Risk and Response__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 17)</span>
__A compelling reason for not giving … … maybe even likely, on that timescale__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**D) Conditional probability—short-timeframe existential risks effectively decrease the probability of long-timeframe ones—we can only die once**
**BOSTROM 2011** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Finally, when considering existential-risk probabilities… …</span>__since we can only be eradicated once__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

==<span class="Underline">2NC Overview Card - Asteroids</span>== 


**__comparatively outweighs the aff__**
**Sidle 07** – (Roy, PhD, Professor of Geology, Appalachian State University, former member of the Disaster Prevention Research Institute of Kyoto University in Japan, elected an American Geophysical Union Fellow in 2010, “Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object,” published in __Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society__, ed. Peter T. Bobrowsky and Hans Rickman, springerlink DH)

__Because of the catastrophic, long-term global … ..compared to very large NEO impacts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==<span class="Underline">2NC Link - Asteroids</span>== 

**NASA can’t do the plan without a tradeoff**
<span class="Underline">**NASA Report to Congress 7**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (March, “Near-Earth Object Survey and Deflection Analysis of Alternatives”, http://neo.jpl.nasa.gov/neo/report2007.html)//DT</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Currently, NASA carries out the "Spaceguard Survey… …</span>__cannot initiate a new program at this time.__




=Spending= 

==1NC== 

===Valley=== 

Super committee will compromise now – spending kills these
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Todd </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spangler</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Washington staff, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9/11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, “Who can step up to forge a deal on federal deficit?”, http://www.freep.com/article/20110911/NEWS15/109110571/Who-can-step-up-forge-deal-federal-deficit-, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- Bart Stupak knows a few things … … choices ahead: choices I am willing to make."</span>


<insert link>

Failure of the compromise causes credit downgrade – fiscal discipline is key
John **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Detrixhe</span>__**, reporter, 8/2/**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>__**, “U.S. Credit Rating Affirmed as Moody’s, Fitch Warn of Downgrade on Deficit”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-aaa-rating-faces-moody-s-downgrade-on-debt-economic-slowdown-concern.html, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moody’s</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Investors Service and Fitch Ratings </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">affirmed … … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to GDP ratio, for example, going forward.”</span>


Further downgrade causes complete collapse
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marc </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldwein</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8/11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, “Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America”, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">What are the consequences of further downgrades… …no one available to bail out the U.S. government</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Nuclear war
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span> Increased Potential for Global Conflict</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics … …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">between states in a more dog-eat-dog world</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==2NC Overview== 

Must stop spending or the economy is doomed – every bit we don’t save means another program cut
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Girard </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, public money columnist, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9/8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, “Why and How to Restore United States' AAA rating”, http://www.governing.com/columns/public-money/Why-and-How-to-Restore-United-States-AAA-rating.html, umn-rks</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But that's just the tip of the iceberg… …</span>put everything back on the table with no sacred cows<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Economic decline causes war – studies prove</span>
**__Royal__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Director Cooperative Threat Reduction DOD, </span>**__’10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jedediah, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises” in ‘Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives’ ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">periods ofeconomic decline… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>
==2NC Auto-Cuts Module== 

Any spending kills the compromise and triggers automatic cuts
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">F</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">leet </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">R</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">eserve </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ssociation, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9/2</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, “New Budget Process for Congress”, http://www.fra.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=Home&template=/CM/HTMLDisplay.cfm&ContentID=12724, umn-rks</span>

Congress returns<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to Washington from its August recess … …no Senate filibusters (60 votes to limit debate) are allowed.</span>


These cuts kill hegemony
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Donnelly</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, director of the Center for Defense Studies, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9/13</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, “Testimony: House Armed Services Committee”, http://www.aei.org/docLib/TDHASCTestimony13Sept2011.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Smith, for the opportunity to testify … …</span>would certainly be the prime target of future cuts<span class="UnderlineBold">. </span>



==AT: Keynes== 

**Keynes was wrong – stimulus proves spending can’t help**
**High 9/14/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jack, “ Keynesian spending won’t save the economy ” http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/keynesian-spending-wont-save-the-economy/2011/09/13/gIQAnO30SK_story.html)</span>

__In his Sept. 11 Business column, “The Republicans’ magical thinking,” … …deficit spending are neither anachronistic nor irresponsible.__

**Spending hurts the economy – empirics**
**Farr 9/13/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- a partner at French Wolf & Farr, an Atlanta-based investment advisory firm (Dorsey D., “ Can U.S. government grow sustainable jobs? No ” [[http://www.ajc.com/opinion/can-u-s-government-1180478.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">No. </span>__Increased spending isn’t an elixir for economic troubles… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rein in entitlement programs is desperately needed.</span>

==Links== 

===SMD=== 

**SBMD requires hundreds of thousands of interceptors—costs billions**
**UCS 6/2**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Union for Concerned Scientists (2011, All Things Nuclear section, Laura Grego, “Space-Based Missile Defense: Still a Bad Idea,” [[http://allthingsnuclear.org/post/6105337195/space-based-missile-defense-still-a-bad-idea]], DA: 7/26/2011/JLENART) </span>

__While $8 million is small money in this context__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">… …</span>__be defeated by a handful of enemy missiles.__

===Sat Hardening=== 

**They cost major bucks**
<span class="Underline">**Schendzielos, 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – major in the USAF, School of Advanced Military Studies (April 30, 2008, Major Kurt Schendzielos, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, predicting which resources, budget, and materials … …balanced against the risk of having done nothing at all.</span>


=Impact Defense/Turns= 

==Free Trade== 

===1NC Defense=== 

**Trade fails – multiple reasons**

**Unsustainable in the long term**
**Fletcher 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian, Senior Economist of the Coalition for a Prosperous America, a nationwide grass-roots organization dedicated to fixing America’s trade policies and comprising representatives from business, agriculture, and labor. He was previously Research Fellow at the U.S. Business and Industry Council, a Washington think tank founded in 1933 and before that, an economist in private practice serving mainly hedge funds and private equity firms, “The Theory That’s Killing America’s Economy – and Why It’s Wrong,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ian-fletcher/the-theory-thats-killing-_b_846452.html?ir=Politics]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Dubious Assumption #1: Trade is sustainable… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to force trade into balance, //not// free trade.</span>

**Externalities**
**Fletcher 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian, Senior Economist of the Coalition for a Prosperous America, a nationwide grass-roots organization dedicated to fixing America’s trade policies and comprising representatives from business, agriculture, and labor. He was previously Research Fellow at the U.S. Business and Industry Council, a Washington think tank founded in 1933 and before that, an economist in private practice serving mainly hedge funds and private equity firms, “The Theory That’s Killing America’s Economy – and Why It’s Wrong,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ian-fletcher/the-theory-thats-killing-_b_846452.html?ir=Politics]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Dubious Assumption #2: There are no externalities… …</span><span class="Underline"> that would have flowed from them in the future</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Capital mobility – this independently kills American competitiveness and causes brain drain**
**Fletcher 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian, Senior Economist of the Coalition for a Prosperous America, a nationwide grass-roots organization dedicated to fixing America’s trade policies and comprising representatives from business, agriculture, and labor. He was previously Research Fellow at the U.S. Business and Industry Council, a Washington think tank founded in 1933 and before that, an economist in private practice serving mainly hedge funds and private equity firms, “The Theory That’s Killing America’s Economy – and Why It’s Wrong,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ian-fletcher/the-theory-thats-killing-_b_846452.html?ir=Politics]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Dubious Assumption #5: Capital is not internationally mobile… …there's no excuse for modern economists to ignore it.</span>

**Faulty short-term assumptions – this is also a reason why their predictions should be rejected**
**Fletcher 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian, Senior Economist of the Coalition for a Prosperous America, a nationwide grass-roots organization dedicated to fixing America’s trade policies and comprising representatives from business, agriculture, and labor. He was previously Research Fellow at the U.S. Business and Industry Council, a Washington think tank founded in 1933 and before that, an economist in private practice serving mainly hedge funds and private equity firms, “The Theory That’s Killing America’s Economy – and Why It’s Wrong,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ian-fletcher/the-theory-thats-killing-_b_846452.html?ir=Politics]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Dubious Assumption #6: Short-term efficiency causes long-term growth… …</span>not so much wrong about long-term growth as simply silent.


==Bio-D== 

===1NC Defense=== 

FIRST, it’s inevitable – no moral reason to protect species
Nassim Nicholas **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Taleb</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__**, p108-109
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The stability of species. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Take the number of species that we now consider extinct…… feel moral responsibility for every endangered species</span>
SECOND, it will be slow and without impact
Julian **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Simon</span>__**, Professor of Business Administration at the University of Maryland, 2/16/**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**, “Are Humans Causing Species Holocaust?”, The Ultimate Resource II: People, Materials, and Environment, http://www.juliansimon.com/writings/Ultimate_Resource/TCHAR31.txt, umn-rks
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Starting in the early 1980s I published the above critical analysis … …represent the gist of the the authors' arguments.)</span>



==Warming== 

===1NC Defense=== 

**The IPCC data is flawed – CO2 doesn’t cause rapid warming, the sun is an alt cause, and the world is cooling – cites more than 800 peer-reviewed sources**
**Bell 2/14/12 –** Professor in Architecture at the University of Houston
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Larry, “A Top German Environmentalist Cools On Global Warming”, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/larrybell/2012/02/14/a-top-german-environmentalist-cools-on-global-warming/]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Hell has finally frozen over! </span>__Fritz Vahrenholt… …could very well lead to higher agricultural yields.”__


**No impact to warming – newest peer-reviewed studies based on NASA data**
**Hallowell 11 –** celebrated journalist, B.A. in journalism and broadcasting from the College of Mount Saint Vincent and an M.S. in social research from Hunter College
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Billy, “New Study of NASA Data May Debunk Global Warming Predictions,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.theblaze.com/stories/new-study-of-nasa-data-may-debunk-global-warming-predictions/]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Could new NASA data deal a blow to some of … … global warming predictors and NASA’s satellite data.</span>

**Here’s more evidence – government-funded studies show that they’re just alarmism** 
**Page 11/25/11 –** former officer in the Royal Navy, current journalist
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lewis, “Global warming much less serious than thought – new science”, [[http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/11/25/runaway_warming_unlikely/]], dml)</span>

__Climate scientists funded by the US government … … was funded by the US National Science Foundation.__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> ® </span>


==Heg Bad - these cards are really good== 

===1NC - Decline=== 

**Decline is inevitable – economic factors and other powers**
**Layne 1/27/12 –** professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas A & M’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher, “The (Almost) Triumph of Offshore Balancing”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/almost-triumph-offshore-balancing-6405]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Although cloaked in the reassuring boilerplate … …</span>__will be its own decline and China’s rise.__ 


===1NC - Conflict=== 

**Even if heg solves in the abstract – Obama won’t exert leadership to solve conflict**
**Huelett 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Sue, Richard P. and Sophia D. Henke Distinguished Professor of Political Science and chair of the Political Science Department at Knox College, 2011, “Sue Hulett: Has Obama abandoned global leadership?”,[[@http://www.galesburg.com/newsnow/x1638741805/Sue-Hulett-Has-Obama-abandoned-global-leadership]], MH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After the Libyans liberated themselves … …the emerging image of American weakness of will.</span>

===1NC - Multipolarity=== 

<span class="Underline">**Multipolarity makes war unthinkable – no possibility for transition wars – their authors agree**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Schweller 10 –** Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Randall, “Entropy and the trajectory of world politics: why polarity has become less meaningful,” Cambridge Review of International Affairs, Volume 23, Number 1, March 2010, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Though rarely mentioned, system </span>equilibrium<span class="Underline">… … world works among the leading states</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jervis 2005).</span>

===1NC - China Impact=== 

**Heg is dead and we have killed it – trying to postpone the collapse fails and causes conflict with China**
**Layne 12 –** not a fan of heg
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher, “This Time It’s Real: The End of Unipolarity and the Pax Americana”, International Studies Quarterly (2012), 1–11, dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">What effect will China’s rise—and unipolarity’s concomitant end… …</span>**__Washington and Beijing are on a collision course__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>

**That escalates and causes extinction – it’s highly probable**
**Wittner 11** – Emeritus Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lawrence, “COMMENTARY: Is a Nuclear War with China Possible?”, [[http://www.huntingtonnews.net/14446]], dml) </span>

__While nuclear weapons exist, **there remains … …**__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> and nuclear production facilities over the next decade.</span>
===1NC - Prolif Impact=== 

<span class="Underline">**Heg causes prolif – leads to nuclear war**</span>
**Monteiro 12 –** Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nuno, “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity Is Not Peaceful”, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, dml)</span>

<span class="Underline">To</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> deter an eventual attack by the unipole … …even when the unipole is engaged, war remains a possibility. </span>
===2NC - Heg Doesn't Solve War=== 

**Heg can no longer contain conflicts**
**Layne 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher Layne is Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas A & M University's Bush School of Government and Public Service. “Bye bye, Miss American Pie” The European Magazine Online – 3-28-2011 [[http://theeuropean-magazine.com/223-layne-christopher/231-pax-americana]]) AK</span>

__American primacy’s end is result of … … **already is crumbling in slow motion**.__

**__Statistical data__ supports our argument – unipolarity causes comparatively more conflict than it solves**
**Monteiro 12 –** Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale [tables are omitted]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nuno, “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity Is Not Peaceful”, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> How well, then, does the argument that unipolar systems … …</span>**__the most important states in the system__**__.__

===2NC - Multipolarity=== 

And here’s a piece of framing evidence – there’s no bandwagoning – other countries would probably backlash against US hegemony in a unipolar world – multipolarity is __comparatively better__ for US leadership
<span class="Underline">**Schweller 10 –** Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Randall, “Entropy and the trajectory of world politics: why polarity has become less meaningful,” Cambridge Review of International Affairs, Volume 23, Number 1, March 2010, dml)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the downside, </span>the unipole<span class="Underline">’s overwhelmingly large … …</span>In international politics, **bigger is not always better**<span class="Underline">.</span>

===2NC - Decline=== 

China rise – all objective indicators confirm
**Layne 12 –** not a fan of heg
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher, “This Time It’s Real: The End of Unipolarity and the Pax Americana”, International Studies Quarterly (2012), 1–11, dml) </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The ascent of </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">new great powers is </span>… …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> capabilities to defend those interests (Zakaria 1998). </span>
Economic factors
**Layne 12 –** not a fan of heg
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher, “This Time It’s Real: The End of Unipolarity and the Pax Americana”, International Studies Quarterly (2012), 1–11, dml) </span>
__China’s rise is one powerful indicator … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">American political and military predominance’’ (Kirshner 2008). </span>

===2NC - Prolif Turn=== 

**Ensures global nuclear war – outweighs on miscalculation**
Sokolski ‘9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry Sokolski, executive director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, serves on the U.S. Congressional Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, June-July 2009, “Avoiding a Nuclear Crowd,” Hoover Policy Review, online: http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/46390537.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So far, </span><span class="underline0">the U.S. has tried to cope … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nor their critics, would ever want. </span>

<span class="Underline">**And, that independently short circuits their offense**</span>
**Monteiro 12 –** Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nuno, “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity Is Not Peaceful”, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What, then, is the value of unipolarity … …</span>polarity<span class="Underline"> of the system </span>may become less important.”