[[toc]]
=Cites= 
Aff: [[mailto:samfordin@gmail.com|samfordin@gmail.com]]
Neg: [[mailto:lukevanseters@gmail.com|lukevanseters@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
=Georgetown 1AC= 
==Plan Text== 
**Text: The United States federal government should develop a self-sufficient base on the Moon.**

==Inherency== 

**Space leadership collapsing now—no coherent plan after Constellation was cancelled**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cherry 11</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Mary Alys, writer for Houston News, “U.S. Space Leadership Slipping”, May 29, 2011, http://www.yourhoustonnews.com/bay_area/news/article_9857fa1d-60e9-511c-81a7-e7eb08e87c1f.html)</span>
When the president failed <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> been sorely disappointed.”</span>

**Space leadership slipping now- the shuttle program was ended with no clear plan for the future.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klotz, 7/6/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">2011,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Writer for NewsDaily, (Irene Klotz, “Shuttles’ end stirs doubts about U.S. space program” [[http://www.newsdaily.com/stories/tre7643n8-us-space-shuttle-future/]], Acc 7/20/11) NH </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CAPE CANAVERAL, Florida, …no longer apparent."</span>

==Leadership== 

===China=== 

**China is gaining on the US—it will compromise leadership in the long run**
**Richardson and Baribeau 9/29**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Ben and Simone, writers for Bloomberg Business Week, “China’s Launch of Lab Closes Gap With U.S. in ‘Crowded’ Space”, September 29, 2011, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2011-09-29/china-s-launch-of-lab-closes-gap-with-u-s-in-crowded-space.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lost Leadership … in military warfare.”</span>
**The US relies on space for hegemony—China seeks to challenge that**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Everett Dolman, prof., Comparative Military Studies, US Air Force, September 2010, The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment, September 2010, p. 29)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The relatively … is able to respond.</span>
**China is not rising peacefully; the US needs to get to space before China—prevents nuclear terrorism and nuclear war**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Tamm 6</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(David J., masters degree from Jagienollian University in Krakow, Poland, “The Reinvigoration of the West through Outer Space Development”, October 2006, http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:w01m6QlQCZIJ:hudsonfla.com/tsiolkovsky.pdf+the+reinvigoration+of+the+west+through+space&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESjEtKyoaOswxr1R2P8pVclVZBAGklTyYfN-CqAUI4BHIsOCpItdwn5ZKWyHOo8PTsyjk--OGIpLZWTihHI-_egJ3YuIZiP-4qH6eK4WcmAXD_I7dArkZQgZMYfnJfUWro8D7ExC&sig=AHIEtbRWGeuTLaIYCd0yj-qZgXUAcalILg)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Proponents of ‘weaponization’ …</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Beijing’s ability and drive. </span>
**Nuclear terrorism is an existential threat—it could escalate to nuclear war with Russia and China**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ayson 10</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Robert Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington**,** 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;"> nuclear restraint.</span>__

===Competitiveness=== 
**Collapse of Constellation undermines the ability of the US to sustain space professionals and threatens our aerospace industry.**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Via Satellite 11</span>__,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(January 1, 2011, Commercial Satellite Sector Sees Upside to New Space Policy Hopeful of ITAR Reform, Greater Stake in U.S. Roadmap for Space)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Blakey expressed concerns … out of work</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

**A skilled workforce and strong aerospace industry is key to US competitiveness**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Commission on the U.S. Aerospace Industry 2**, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">panel formed by President Bush and Congress in 2001, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Oct 31 2002</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Commission on the Future of the U.S. Aerospace Industry, “Commission Study Shows Economic Importance of U.S. Aerospace and Aviation Industry at the National, State, and Local Levels,” [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=9708]]].</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">WASHINGTON- According … foreign competition.</span>__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Competitiveness is the key internal link to U.S. primacy—gains in S&T leadership are necessary to stave off rising hegemonic challenges and sustain US dominance</span>**
**<span class="cite0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Segal 4</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Adam Maurice R. Greenberg Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of Digital Dragon: High Technology Enterprises in China, December 2004, “Is America Losing its Edge?”, CFR, Foreign Affairs)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The __U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S__tates' __… entrepreneurship at home__.</span>

**US primacy key to solving multiple scenarios for conflict, including great power wars and proliferation**
**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, prof security Missouri State, 06 (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bradley Thayer, professor of security studies at Missouri State, November/December 2006 “In Defense of Primacy,”)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A remarkable fact …and labor markets</span>__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We can maintain competitiveness if we act now</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Albaugh 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> -- Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and member of the International Academy of Astronautics (4/27/2011 , Jim Albaugh, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace”, Speech to the 10th Annual Aviation Summit US Chamber of Commerce, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/speeches_testimony/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">I believe</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">we’re …</span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> used to lead?</span>__

**Plan solves—strategy refocus on colonization and exploration ensures S&T leadership**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turpen, 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">, nuclear security expert, associate at Booz Allen Hamilton and formerly of the Henry L. Stimson Center (Elizabeth, Leveraging Science For Security: A Strategy For The Nuclear Weapons Laboratories In The 21st Century, http://www.stimson.org/books-reports/leveraging-science-for-security-a-strategy-for-the-nuclear-weapons-laboratories-in-the-21st-century/) </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The U</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">nited States …</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">those pertinent to national security.</span>

==Colonization== 

===Warming=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Global warming is real and happening now</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">CSM 1/12</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Christian Science Monitor. “Global warming waning? Hardly. 2010 was tied as warmest year on record.” January 12, 2011. http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/2011/0112/Global-warming-waning-Hardly.-2010-was-tied-as-warmest-year-on-record?cmpid=ema:nws:Daily%20Auto%2001122011&cmpid=ema:nws:Njc4NzAyNzQxNQS2</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Last year tied </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> center's climate monitoring branch.</span>

**Climate change is the only existential threat for those on Earth**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Doebbler 11</span>.** Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm]]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Climate change </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">… in this vein.</span>__

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Asteroids</span>**=== 

**An asteroid strike is inevitable – extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Globus 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Al Globus, curator for NASA, “Why Build Orbital Space Colonies?” http://space.alglobus.net/Basics/why.html,)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If we don't do …</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> was still suffering through. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The window is closing – we must colonize space __now__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tierney 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (John Tierney, New York Times Columnist, “A Survival Imperative for Space Colonization”, http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/17/science/17tier.html)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It might seem … try to be special</span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__

==Solvency== 

**The moon is most feasible for four reasons: politics, the economy, changes in international law, and future colonization efforts**
**Dinkin 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Sam, contributor to The Space Review; CEO of SpaceShot, has helped national governments with their first multi-unit telecom auctions in seven countries and has assisted numerous bidding teams on six continents. He is a 7th plateau IBM master inventor who has won an achievement award for IBM's electronic market consulting offering. He received his B.S. in economics from Caltech, and his M.A. and Ph.D. in economics from the University of Arizona, “Colonize the Moon before Mars”, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Consider three … liquidity for other space colonization activities.</span>

**A federally funded successor to Constellation solves—private companies need strong governmental support**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Foust, ’10**, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Ph. D Planetary Sciences</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Jeff, “NASA’s Course Correction, [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/nasas-course-correction]], 7/24/11)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The release …</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> humans to or from space safely.”</span>__</span>

**The Moon is ideal—proximity and future colonization**
**Shapiro 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Robert, prestigious professor of chemistry at NYU, “Spaceflight or Extinction”, 12/10/04, http://www.spaext.com/info/shapiro/index.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Imagine that a secure…interplanetary missions.</span>

=Negative= 
=DAs= 
==AJA== 

**Jobs Bill top of the docket and passing now—assumes GOP opposition**
**Voa 9/16 (**Voa News **“**Obama Continues Push On Jobs Bill” 9-16-11 [[http://blogs.voanews.com/breaking-news/2011/09/16/obama-continues-push-on-jobs-bill/|__http://blogs.voanews.com/breaking-news/2011/09/16/obama-continues-push-on-jobs-bill/__]])
U.S. President Barack__…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at about nine percent. </span>

**Political capital is key to AJA passage**
**CBS 9/12** (“Obama sends jobs bill to Congress, urges "no games, no politics, no delays," 2011, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20104820-503544.html]])

President __Obama is … support for the bill.__

**AJA is key to propel U.S. innovation, R&D, and competitiveness – Other countries are passing us**
**Philippidis 9/16** (Alex, senior news editor at Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News, “As Obama Pitches Jobs Bill, Biobusinesses Link Growth to R&D Incentives and Early-Stage Funding,” 2011, [[http://www.genengnews.com/analysis-and-insight/as-obama-pitches-jobs-bill-biobusinesses-link-growth-to-r-d-incentives-and-early-stage-funding/77899459/]])

Barbara Gebhardt, president …__a biotech hiring boom.__

**And, U.S. rate of innovation, technological development and R&D must keep pace to develop products, technology, and solutions to solve collapse of the global biosphere**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Barker 2k**(Brent, manager of corporate communications, having earlier served as manager of strategic and executive communications and for 12 years as the Journal's editor-in-chief, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability”, EPRI Journal, June 22)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Sustainability has been the subject … future generations everywhere in the world.__ That future begins now.</span>
==Weaponization== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Huntley 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">As is well understood,… developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hitchens 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (President of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Perhaps of even greater …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">be unacceptable to all.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Causes miscalc - risks extinction</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mitchell et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A buildup … military conflict ever seen.</span>__

==Spending== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Discretionary spending is being limited– Congress is focused on future cuts </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">MiamiHerald.com</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> **7/25**</span> (David Lightman, William Douglas, 7/25/11, "Parties offer new rival debt plans in Congress as clock ticks ", <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.miamiherald.com/2011/07/25/2330635/parties-offer-new-rival-debt-plans.html]]</span>)
Both the Republican-controlled …seek cuts item by item.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New spending in the midst of a debt crisis triggers investor pullout</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Associated Press, 2011 </span>(**"Foreign Investors Attracted to US Debt." Connecticut Breaking News, Weather and Traffic | WTNH.com. News 8, 18 July 2011. Web. 23 July 2011. <http://www.wtnh.com/dpps/money/business_news/foreign-investors-not-scared-of-us-debt-nt11-jpe_3884370>.)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">WASHINGTON (AP) — __The … a downgrade.__</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That kills the economy</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kim 2k9</span>** (<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Kim Holmes, previous assistant Secretary of State and writer for the Washington Times. //“Competition key financial remedy”// The Washington Times. LexisNexis. February 5, 2009, Thursday.)</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The best way to … growth</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Mr. Obama, beware. </span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic downturn causes isolationism and nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg 2008 (Professor of Politics and IR @ Princeton) and Schoenfeld (Visiting Scholar @ the Witherspoon Institute) – </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Aaron and Gabriel, “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, 21 October. [Online] </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html/]]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span class="underline">One </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">immediate implication …</span><span class="underline"> internal travails with external adventures</span>__.__

=CPs= 
==Privatization== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Counterplan Text: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should establish a Centennial Challenge for .</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Centennial Challenges promote low-cost tech development and space missions. They’re modeled on past successes and can solve the aff</span>**
**<span class="CiteChar">Cain</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">— publisher of Universe Today, VP and Partner of Communicate.com; a website development agency, co-founder and inventor of CompuTrace, </span>**<span class="CiteChar">04</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, (April 29, 2004, Fraser, Universe Today, “NASA’s X-Prize Looking for Ideas” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.universetoday.com/9536/nasas-x-prize-looking-for-ideas/]], MA</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The NASA program …exciting program,” he said.</span>


=Ks= 
==Security== 

**The Aff promotes a securitizing view of space by justifying the plan through a politics of fear --- this is an intentional narrative that conceals ideological bias and serves as a pretext for militarization**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mellor 7</span>** (Felicity, Lecturer in Science Communication – Imperial College (UK), “Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space”, Social Studies of Science, 37(4), August, p. 499-502)

Since the late 1980s, …militarization of space.

**Disorder and insecurity are inevitable. Attempting to control danger is the impetus for global destruction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span>** (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)
No other concept …<span class="Heading3Char"> into a fearful sameness</span>.

**The alternative is to refuse security – use your ballot to rip open the aporias within language.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 2</span>** (Anthony, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Aporias of Security,” in //Alternatives// 27, p. 18-23)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Refusing Security It is …possibilities might be. </span>