||   ||   ||
||   ||   ||
=T - Of= 

**Interpretation: ‘of space’ indicates that space must be the object of exploration or development – it is different from activities that occur ‘in’ space**
**Bockstiegel 95 –**Ph D., Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)

The official title of the Outer Space Treaty (‘OST’) mentions both exploration and use of outer space as the two ‘activities of States’ which one has to take into account and which are therefore covered by the Outer Space Treaty. The same pair of terms appears again in the Preamble as well as further articles such as Article I and Article III of the Treaty. Other articles and other space treaties either take up only one of these two terms or use a general terms such as ‘activities in outer space’ (Art. VI, OST) or generally deal with ‘objects launched into outer space’ (Art. VII, Art. VIII, OST and the Registration Convention) or ‘space objects’ (Liability Convention) or finally ‘activities of States on the Moon and other celestial bodies’ (Moon Treaty). At first sight the distinction between exploration and use may seem sufficiently clear. Indeed in connection with most space activities there may be little doubt which of these two terms is applicable. First doubts appear, however, because the Outer Space Treaty speaks of exploration ‘of outer space’. This wording could be interpreted to mean that space must be the object of exploration. The consequence would be that the great part of research which has to take place ‘in space’ in view of the specific physical conditions there, but which has as its object specific materials, would not be covered and might only be considered as ‘use’ of space
=T- Staffed= 
==.1NC T-Staffed== 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration means to expand staffed presence to space </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Logsdon, 9 – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a government-funded program of human spaceflight is to take the lead in exploring the solar system beyond low Earth orbit.20 </span>__The MIT white paper__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> provides an insightful definition of exploration:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration is a human activity, undertaken by certain cultures at certain times for particular reasons. It has components of national interest, scientific research, and technical innovation, but is defined by none of them. We </span>__define exploration as__ __an expansion of the realm of human experience, bringing people into new places, situations, and environments__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, expanding and redefining what it means to be human. What is the role of Earth in human life? Is human life fundamentally tied to the earth, or could it survive without the planet?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Human presence, and its attendant risk, turns a spaceflight into a story that is compelling to large numbers of people. Exploration also has a moral dimension because it is in effect a cultural conversation on the nature and meaning of human life. </span>__Exploratio____n__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by this definition </span>__can only be accomplished by__ __direct human presence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and may be deemed worthy of the risk of human life.21</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the wake of the 2003 </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columbia </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">accident that took the lives of seven astronauts and the report of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board that criticized the absence of a compelling mission for human spaceflight as “a failure of national leadership,”22 </span>__the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates, in January 2004, </span>__adopted a new policy to guide its human spaceflight activities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The policy directed NASA to “implement a sustained and affordable human and robotic program to explore the solar system and beyond” and to “extend human presence across the solar system, starting with a human return to the Moon by the year 2020, in preparation for human exploration of Mars and other destinations.”23 </span>__This policy seems totally consistent with the definition of exploration provided in the MIT white paper__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The issue is whether such a policy and its implementation, focusing on human exploration beyond Earth orbit, can provide an adequate and sustainable justification for a continuing program of government-sponsored spaceflight that will make contributions that will outweigh the costs and risks involved to the “primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So is development </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Livingston 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])</span>

__Eric__ Westling __is a____science writer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, pundit on science, technology, and economics. He is the </span>__co-author of “The Space Elevator”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with Dr. Brad Edwards . In addition, Mr. Westling is retired </span>__and__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a </span>__former Army officer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and helicopter pilot, civilian Airline Transport Pilot (ATP), former consultant to many small companies regarding engineering, computer, and business troubleshooting. </span>__His most recent papers are on____S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">olar </span>__P__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ower </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">atellites, Economics of </span>__the Space Elevator, Energy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and time lag in the 21st century , </span>__and Eric’s axioms__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (a list of principles of science, technology and economics). Mr. Westling stats that “Space Development is the only long term answer to the, just starting, energy shortage; which will otherwise continue until we have an economic collapse.” He </span>__believes that no-one is doing space development . Instead, **we have space technology, not development**. NASA has no TRL 10 – therefore no plans to develop space__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> . </span>**__He defines space development as the rapid expansion of manned commercial projects in space__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Violation – the plan fails to expand human presence=== 

===Vote negative –=== 

===1. Limits – explodes the topic, allows for small mechanisms, infinitely regressive satellite programs, and technology retrofitting affirmatives=== 

===2. Ground – large topic eschews negative ground, makes it easier for the affirmative to have small mechanisms that steal core generic ground=== 

3. Precision – our interpretation has the intent to define and creates a clear brightline between human and technological development