[[toc]]
=CP= 

==LSP== 

**Lunar solar power is substantially cheaper and has no environmental impacts**
Al <span style="font-size: 16px;">Globus</span>, chairman of the Space Settlement Committee of the National Space Society, also works for contractors at NASA Ames Research Center Online Journal of Space Communication, Winter 20<span style="font-size: 16px;">10</span>, “Space Solar Power, Lunar Mining and the Environment,”
(http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/globus2.html)

**Let's consider Space Solar Power…Those tradeoffs can also be calculated**.
SBSP fails – launches, size, feasibility, timeframe
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Criswell 02</span>(Dr. David R. Criswell , director of the University of Houston’s Institute for Space Systems Operations in Houston, Texas, Institute for Space Systems Operations, University of Houston, April/May 2002, “Solar Power via the Moon,” [[http://electra.ihmc.us/rid=1J205CP36-12XZMXF-1ZBG/Solar%20Power%20via%20the%20M]]oon%20(David%20R.%20Criswell).pdf)
Several types of solar-power satellites...<span class="DebateUnderline">commercial development could be considered. </span>

==<span class="DebateUnderline">Consult Japan</span>== 

Text**: The United States federal government should propose that it** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">_</span>
__**to the nation of Japan for binding consultation as a part of the Alliance Common Strategic objectives. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation.**__

__**The net benefit—**__

__**<span style="color: #000000;">Despite recent efforts to aid Japan in the tsunami crisis, US-Japan </span>**__**MILITARY __relations remain strained after scandals on both sides are revealed and after Chinese forces are seen imposing on Japanese barriers during their weak state__**
__**<span style="color: #000000;">Takahashi 3/12</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">– Senior Writer at Asia Times Online, Tokyo correspondent for Jane’s Defence Weekly, graduated from Keio University with a BA in economics, graduated with a master of science in Journalism, and a Master of International Affairs (3-12-11, Kosuke Takahashi, “Scandals strain US-Japan relations” [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/MC12Dh01.html]] CB</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>__

__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">TOKYO - A new division is developing...Korea from March 19 in Kyoto.</span>__

__**Consultation on extra-terrestrial policy with Japan enhances Japanese national security and promises healthy Chinese relations reversing Chinese aggression.**__
__**ISRIA 6/21**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– news company: specific article from Office of Spokesperson at Washington DC (June 21, 2011, Office of Spokesperson, “Us Dept of State – Joint Statement of the US – Japan Security Consultative Committee” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.isria.com/pages/22_June_2011_69.php]] CB</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>__

__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Based on the assessment of the</span>__...<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> the utilization of dual use sensors.</span>

__**Forfeit Japanese national security, Japan will inevitably nuclearize to balance growing Chinese forces escalating to arms races, proliferation and world war.**__
__**Khalilzad 95** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><Zalmay, Washington Quarterly, Spring, “Losing the Moment? The United States and the World After the Cold War,” lexis></span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The same is also true of Japan....</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> even more catastrophic than the last</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

==Clarification PIC== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">CP Text: (Whatever the plan is, minus the phrase "We'll clarify/We reserve the right to clarify")</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">In legal debates, “to clarify” means to make text transparently intelligible and free from ambiguity – in the context of the affirmative, this takes the form of their using speech to make clear the meaning of their plan text.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moon, 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Judge, No. 15209 Supreme Court of Hawaii 73 Haw. 201; 830 P.2d 503; 1992 Haw. LEXIS 51 May 14, 1992 May 14, 1992, Filed PRIOR HISTORY: [**1] Appeal from the First Circuit Court; S. P. No. 90-0106.** </span>**<span class="verdana" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">JUDGES: Lum, C.J., </span><span class="hit" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Padgett,</span><span class="verdana" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Hayashi, Wakatsuki, and Moon, JJ. </span><span class="blue" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">*</span><span class="verdana" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Opinion of the Court by Moon, J.)</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The </span><span class="hit" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">language of the original ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> the adverse party, pursuant to HRS § 658-11. </span><span class="blue" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">11</span>**

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Their elevation of speech over written words of the plan is mired in a violent metaphysics – it is an unethical exclusion of hidden meaning, of otherness, that must be questioned.</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Burman & MacLure, 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Erica Burman, Pyschology—Manchester Metropolitan University and Maggie MacLure, Education—Manchester Metropolitan University, 2005 (Research Methods in the Social Sciences, ed. By Somekh and Lewin, p. 285-6) </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">One of Derrida’s primary targets for...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">__where ethical responsibility is demanded__ (see Biesta and Egea-Khuehne, 2001). </span>**

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">It is violent to impose “clarified” meaning on the world. This is the root cause of all otherization and tyranny. Critique is essential to overcome logocentrism.</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Lilla, 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (http://jya.com/lilla-derrida.htm, 21 June 1998 Source: Hardcopy //The New York Review of Books//, June 25, 1998, pp. 36-41., Professor of humanities, Columbia University, The Politics of Jacques Derrida, Mark). </span>**

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">D</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">econstruction was conceived in the...humanity would have to be forsworn.</span>**


<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">The counterplan solves the aff better—deconstruction allows us to better interpret ideological influences behind legal texts. The practice is fundamental to law making. </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Balkin, 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (http://www.yale.edu/lawweb/jbalkin/articles/decprac1.htm, Jack M. Deconstructive Practice and Legal Theory, Knight Professor of Constitutional Law and the First Amendment</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Director, The Information Society Project at Yale Law School). </span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The purpose of this Article...theories underlying our legal system.</span>
==Near Space== 

**TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially decrease its reliance on space assets in favor of near-space assets. The United States federal government should substantially increase its development and deployment of near-space assets that do not extend beyond the mesosphere, including but not limited to evolutionary acquisition for space situational awareness.**

**Near-space solves SSA best.**
**Tomme, ‘5**
[Lt Col Edward B., Department of Physics, United States Air Force Academy Air Force Space Battlelab, Air Force Space Command “The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space: Near-Space as a Combat Space Effects Enabler,” http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It must be noted, however, that...</span> __to deliver strategic space effects__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==Stratosats== 

TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially increase its development and deployment of stratospheric satellites that do not extend beyond the mesosphere.

CP solves the case better -- more accurate and better observation capabilities and cost-efficient.
Pankine et al., ‘9
[Alexey, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, Kerry Nock, American Meteorological Society, “STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS,” August, http://denali.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/purucker/pankine_stratsats_bams_2009.pdf]

__Observational systems in atmospheric science, ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and a payload power of 1–2 kW (Pankine 2002a).</span>
==Recommendation== 

**Text – The United States Congress should establish an independent agency empowered by the executive to submit to Congress recommendations for space policy as per Newton and Atkins. Congress and the executive will delegate authority to the agency to create recommendations and allow 90 days to pass legislation maintaining existing legislative baselines. If Congress does not pass legislation revising the Commission’s recommendations within the specified period, those recommendations will enter into legal force. After making adjustments to the plan based on input from the Commission, the Commission should recommend to Congress that The United States federal government should …**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (insert plan). </span>

**The CP solves --- avoids policy churn that tanks solvency**
**Newton and Atkins 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, and Chuck, former Chief of Staff-House Science Committee, Take the Chaos Out of U.S. Space Policy, 10 May, 2010, http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Policy stability is not an...long-term benefit of the nation.</span>

**Will pass and doesn’t drain capital**
**Mayer ’07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kenneth,- professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison “THE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS: IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE RATIONAL POLICY?”)</span>

__The conventional wisdom was that...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> came anywhere close to passing.</span>

==Nextgen== 

**Text: The United States federal government should provide guarantees of loans made by NextGen Equipage Fund Limited Liability Company.**

**Loan guarantees will result in full NextGen implementation stimulating the aerospace industry and the economy**
**NEXA 11** (Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company “NextGen Equipage Fund” April)
*NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing

__The NextGen Equipage Fund__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, LLC...commercial air transport fleet (Figure 4).</span>

==Vagueness (Round 2 vs. Northview)== 

(The counterplan is somewhat satirical. The point is that either vagueness is good and we do it better than them, or vagueness is bad, the plan text justifies vagueness, and we kick the cp and go for vagueness theory)

CP Text: The USfg should take all measures besides the plan to solve for Chinese military aggression, hegemony, the economy, and bioterror attacks

**Space weaponization is a vague term that lacks any concrete meaning**
<span class="citation">**[[http://www.spacedebate.org/organization/988/|Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis]] 06** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf|Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, and the Twenty-First Century, 2007 Report]], Washington, D.C.: [[http://www.spacedebate.org/organization/988|Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis]], August 28, 2006)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, </span>__the problem of identifying...____more inclusive set of systems."__

==ESA== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">CP Text – The European Union should through the European Space Agency and share the information gathered to all space faring nations. </span></span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">ESA solves – it’s accelerating SSA capabilities but more is needed</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">ESA 11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (European Space Agency, “European endorsement for ESA’s space hazards programme,” European Space Agency, June 17 2011, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.rss.html?pid=33866]])</span>

<span class="Underline">__Similar test facilities are also being set up for space weather and objects such as asteroids.__</span>


**The EU can develop more space technologies – our ev is predictive**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">EC-SAG 9</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (European Commission Space Advisory Group on Space Exploration, “Towards a European Vision for Space Exploration”, http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/policies/space/research/towards_a_european_vision_for_space_exploration_en.htm, October 2009) SV</span>

__Europe’s space industry__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, to a</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... to even more ambitious endeavours</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">.</span></span>
==Code of Conduct== 

**CP TEXT: The United States federal government should enter into an executive agreement committing to abide by the EU Code of Conduct.**

**Even without formal enforcement procedures, norms substantially decrease violations – empirically codes of conduct work**
**Krepon et al, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

**Code of Conduct**
__We view a code of conduct for...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> together as a coherent regime.</span>

**Independently – strategic dialogue reduces the risk of miscalculation and secures a cooperative relationship. Even if China says no to a code of conduct, initiating the process creates a new __political__ relationship that prevents miscalculation and strengthens deterrence**
**Manzo, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - CDI Research Assistant (Vince, “U.S. Policy Brief: The Need for a Strategic Dialogue with China,” 8/28, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/StrategicDialoguePolicy.pdf)</span>

__A strategic dialogue__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> between the...necessarily accept or share them.”34</span>

**Code of conduct is key --- provides a punishment mechanism**
**Lele 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – research fellow at the Indian Defense Review (April-July 2008, Ajey, Indian Defence Review, “Militarization of Space”, http://www.indiandefencereview.com/military-&-space/Militarization-of-Space-.html, accessed June 21, 2011)</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">All recent US policies relating to...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">from space without weaponising it.</span>__</span>

**Code of conduct is a comparatively better way to solve conflict – aggression will backfire**
**Krepon & Black, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center, director of the Space Security Project AND research associate at the Stimson Center (May, Michael and Samuel, “Space Security or Anti-satellite Weapons?” Stimson, pdf)</span>

__An alternative approach to space...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in harmful interference against satellites.</span>

==SPS Purchase== 

**The United States federal government should provide loan guarantees, tax credits and advance civilian power purchase agreements for the commercial development of space solar power, fund a ground test program, and negotiate all necessary international agreements governing the deployment of solar power satellites on behalf of industry.**

**It’s competitive – the counterplan provides incentives for development and demonstration, but doesn’t have the government do the development itself. Its means ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, __its__, ours, theirs __are__ the __possessive pronouns__ __used to__ substitute a noun __and to show__ possession or __ownership.__
EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

**It’s a distinct option from government development and solves better – tax incentives, loan guarantees, a ground test, and a civilian purchasing agreement solves the case completely**
**Nansen 2k** - President Solar Space Industries, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ralph, Statement to the United States Congress Subcommittee on Space Science “The Technical Feasibility of Space Solar Power” Before the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, United States House of Representatives Committee on Science September 7, 2000, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=2571]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)  //CCH//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In a partnership of US government and...completion of the Ground Test Program.</span>//

//**<span style="background-color: white;">Government development of SSP risks bureaucratic mismanagement and over-specification of performance standards – it will eliminate commercial applications </span>**//
//**<span style="background-color: white;">Nansen, 95</span>**– founder and president of Solar Space Industries. He has been recognized as one of the key leaders in the world to develop, promote, and manage the Solar Power Satellite program since 1973. <span style="background-color: white;"> (Ralph, </span>Sun Power: The Global Solution for the Coming Energy Crisis,//
//[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower14.html]])//

//**__The Government Development Option__**//
//__A logical approach for a concept...____, thus impeding the whole operation__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>//

//**SSP tech might exist but isn’t even close to mature – current capabilities don’t create a business case and NASA tech development programs have been gutted.**//
//**Day, 9** - senior program officer at the National Research Council’s Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board (part of the National Academies, which includes the National Academy of Sciences). He is currently directing several studies for NASA and the U.S. Air Force, including a study of the role and size of the activities conducted by NASA’s astronaut office, a study of NASA’s aeronautics flight test research program, and the Space Studies Board’s recently concluded planetary science decadal survey. He has previously served as an investigator for the Columbia Accident Investigation Board, was the first historian for the Congressional Budget Office, and held both Guggenheim and Verville Fellowships at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum (Dwayne, “Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors,” 12/21, The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1534/1]])//

//__You don’t have to spend much...__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the activists are excited about.</span>//

//**Technological risk and cost overruns are __ever-present__ even with __established__ technology because there’s a substantial difference between technological capability and engineering integration. __Speeding__ tech integration through government programs creates massive cost overruns and risks total engineering failure**// 
//**Rendleman and Faulconer,** **11** - * USAF, retired Space Law, Policy, and Strategy Contributor Colorado Springs, Colorado AND  **President, Strategic Space Solutions, LLC (James and Walter, “Escaping the Space Acquisition Death Spiral”, Part 2, High Frontier, August,**//
//**[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110825-030.pdf]])**//

//**__Space systems, even quick and...__ __and costs were consistently underestimated__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.” 10</span>**//


//Fiating the continuation of a technologically mismanaged space program turns the aff into a resource black hole – it will draw capital and personnel away from other space programs – crushing the industrial base//
//Rendleman and Faulconer, 11 **- * USAF, retired Space Law, Policy, and Strategy Contributor Colorado Springs, Colorado AND**  President, Strategic Space Solutions, LLC (James and Walter, “Escaping the Space Acquisition Death Spiral”, Part 1, High Frontier, August,//
//[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110825-027.pdf]])//

//Throughout the recent era of space... __US competitive in the world__.//

//**Turns heg**//
//**Snead, 7 -** Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development (Mike, “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, 6/3, http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx)//

//__Great power status is achieved through...__next presidential administration should exercise.//

//**Turns the economy**//
//**Augustine, 5** – retired chairmen and CEO of Lockheed Martin Corp., charied National Academics Committee on Prospering in the Global Economy of the 21st Century (Norman R., Aviation Week and Space Technology, “US Science and Technology is on a Losing Path” Pg. 70 Vo. 163 No. 17 10-31-05, LN)//  DCM

__<This transition to a borderless...____valuable individuals would be lost.>__

=DA= 

==Ozone== 

**Current launch rates keep emissions low. A substantial increase would reverse gains, causing ozone depletion**
Jeff <span style="font-size: 16px;">Foust</span>, editor and publisher of //The Space Review,// “Space and (or versus) the environment,” 6-5-20<span style="font-size: 16px;">09</span>, //The Space Review// (blog), http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1395/1
Right now<span class="DebateUnderline">, such </span>emissions are …case, sharply restrict launch activity.

<span class="DebateUnderline">**Ozone depletion results in extinction.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Greenpeace, </span><span style="color: #000000;">non-governmental environmental organization with offices in over 40 countries and with an international coordinating body, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">1995</span>, Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,<span style="color: #000000;">http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html</span></span>

When chemists Sherwood Rowland and…the continuation of life on earth.

===SPS=== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">SPS would require a minimum of 100,000 launches to meet current energy demand – and a million launches to provide for future rates</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Al </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Globus,</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Chair of the NSS Space Settlement Advocacy Committee and recipient of the NASA Public Service Medal, “On the Moon”, Ad Astra, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf|www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span>)</span>
While it has been suggested…with a very high launch rate.

==Japan Dump== 

**Space is incredibly expensive.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Logan 10</span> - Former Chief of Medical Operations, NASA (James, Turning Dust to Gold: Building a Future on the Moon and Mars, 2010, 265.

Space is too expensive...that's just<span class="Underline"> the </span>transportation<span class="Underline"> costs</span>

**New spending means Japan dumps the dollar – they fear that spending will balloon**
**Kageyama 8/14** (Yuri, AP Business Writer, “Some Advocate Selling US Treasurys for Japan” http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jzLFEVlSt4teNJGrpmxRtdZKqQRA?docId=aa873237eabc47249b1fe7c018d36cc0)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__after Washington's credit rating...____of no return__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Amaki said.</span>

**Japanese dollar dump destroys the dollar, collapse the economy, and devastates the US-Japan alliance**
**Kageyama 8/14** (Yuri, AP Business Writer, “Some Advocate Selling US Treasurys for Japan” http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jzLFEVlSt4teNJGrpmxRtdZKqQRA?docId=aa873237eabc47249b1fe7c018d36cc0)

__The idea that Japan would...____and Japan would be shaken.__

**Japan is in a state of national insecurity – Korea is on the verge of attack; stabilization is key for prevention**
**Gleis**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 3-18-</span>**11,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joshua, political analyst for Huffington Post “ Japan May Have Another Nuclear Crisis to Worry About in North Korea” Huffington Post [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/joshua-gleis/japan-may-have-another-nu_b_837801.html]] NH)</span>

__The world is witnessing an...____and political analysts take note.__

**Extinction**
**<span class="cite">Tertrais 1</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bruno, Lecturer in World Politics at the Institut d’Etudes Politiques in Paris, works as Special Assistant to the Director of Strategic Affairs at the French Ministry of Defence, “US MISSILE DEFENCE Strategically sound, politically questionable”, April, http://www.cer.org.uk/pdf/cerwp11.pdf) </span>
<span class="underline">A regional power (for example...</span>conflict has erupted, is real.

==China Shift== 

**Relations high now—consultations prove**
**Xinhua 10/11—“**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China, U.S. hold consultation on Asia-Pacific affairs”, Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in the United States of America, http://www.china-embassy.org/eng/gdxw/t866433.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BEIJING, Oct. 11 (Xinhua) --</span> __China and the United States ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> affairs in Hawaii in June. </span>

**China views space as zero-sum; this increases the likelihood of a space war.**
**Yali and Blair 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Blair, Bruce and Chen Yali. "The Space Security Dilemma." China Security. Vol. 1, No. 2 (2006): 2-15. Blair is the president of the World Security Institute, and Yali is the editor-in-chief of Washington Observer Weekly.)</span>

__A zero-sum mindset toward space...__ __them, then both parties lose.__

<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Increased pressure causes China to reciprocate conventionally- undermines diplomacy and provokes miscalculation</span>**</span>
**<span class="underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Twomey 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">--, National Security Affairs Dept. Assistant Professor, Contemporary Conflict Center Co-Director</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Chris, Feb, "Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs: Dangerous Dynamism," [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism]], access 9/6/10 EL</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">China and the United States...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> __stability in an intense crisis.__</span>

**Taiwan is the biggest impact – most likely scenario for global nuclear escalation**
**Ikegami 8** (Dr. Masako, Professor of Sociology and Peace & Conflict Studies and Director of the Center for Pacific Asia Studies – Stockholm University “Time for Conflict Prevention Across the Taiwan Strait”, China Brief, 8(7), 3-28, http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=4822)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Indeed, a __cross-Strait conflict is...__criticism and boycotts of Chinese products</span>

==DoD Tradeoff== 

<span class="Underline">**The next generation bomber is currently funded, however defense spending has been frozen meaning any new spending would have to trade off**</span>
<span class="Underline">**CFR 2/13**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Council on Foreign Relations, (2/13/12, “A Defense Budget at the Crossroads,” http://www.cfr.org/us-strategy-and-politics/defense-budget-crossroads/p27318)JCP</span>
<span class="Underline">Who are some of the budget...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">face significant opposition in Congress.</span>

**Increasing military space spending will tradeoff with aircraft procurement programs**
**Dolman 5 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (Everett C., 30 September 2005, “U.S. Military Transformation andU.S. Military Transformation and Weapons in SpaceWeapons in Space”)JCP</span>

The immediate budget impact of...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for supporters of a strong military. </span>

**While the NGB is funded now, if tradeoffs happen it will be the first future weapon system to go**
**Ewing****8/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Journalist and staff writer for politico he has reported from more than a dozen ships at sea, the Pentagon, the Capitol, the White House, Djibouti, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere and appeared on NPR, he was also a reporter for Navy Times (Philip, 8/1/11, “What could Austerity America’s defense posture look like?”, http://www.dodbuzz.com/2011/08/01/what-could-austerity-americas-defense-posture-look-like/) JCP</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Some </span>__major weapons programs, however,...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> additional jobs in the surface force.</span>

**A next generation bomber is vital to preventing the collapse of nuclear deterrence**
**Sirak, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– senior editor of Air Force Magazine (Michael, “Like SAC” Air Force Magazine, June, [[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2009/June%202009/0609SAC.aspx]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Air Force has done a...system in high-threat environments.</span>

**Maintaining credible nuclear deterrence prevents the collapse of civilization**
**Schneider, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Analyst with the National Institute for Public Policy, Ph.D in history at the University of Southern California and JD from George Washington University, former senior officer in the DoD in positions relating to arms control and nuclear weapons policy. (Mark, “The Future of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Comparative Strategy 27.4,, July, ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Today, the United States, the world's... have been reported in the press.8</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">START</span>== 


**European missile defense puts Russia’s participation in the START treaty on the brink** 

**RIA Novasti 12/8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Russian Newspaper, “Medvedev's missile shield remarks may be election rhetoric - NATO chief,” December 8, 2011, [[http://en.ria.ru/world/20111208/169468939.html]] //ACS)</span>



__The NATO secretary general said...__**__treaty__** **__with the United States.__**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBMD will cause Russia to withdraw from START</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Friedman 11</span>** – <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Research Intern for the Project on Nuclear Issues (Jonah, May 25, “Why Numbers Matter”, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://csis.org/blog/why-numbers-matter]]</span> //ACS)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Last week Russian General Andrei...</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">may need to be reconsidered.</span>



**The impact is accidental nuclear war via nuclear reductions and cooperative relations—START is key**

**Rojansky and Collins** **10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew and James, executive director of the Partnership for a Secure America + director of the Russia and Eurasia program at the Carnegie Endowment for </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International Peace, "START is key to reducing the nuclear threat," http://thehill.com/opinion/op-ed/81321-start-is-key-to-reducing-the-nuclear-threat?tmpl=component&print=1&page=)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But arguments from both hawks...it</span> __is__ <span class="UnderlineChar">**where we must begin.**</span>



**US/Russia war would lead to extinction**

**Helfand and Pastore 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 31, 2009, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline" style="font-size: 8pt;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian President...in 1995 remains in place today. </span>


=Kritiks= 

==Astropolitiks== 

**“Space” is a social construction. It is an empty canvas where we can project images of warfare or peaceful alternatives. Their representation of space as a battlefield is driven by a worldview where technology guides politics.**
**Bormann, 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ISA Conference in San Diego, March 22-25, 2006 Panel on ‘Reading Outer Space’ Dr Natalie Bormann Visiting Assistant Professor The Global Security Program Watson Institute Brown UniversityThe Lost Dimension? A Virilian reading of Outer Space Weaponization </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To begin with, </span>__the concept...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">what has informed this process? </span>

**Their faith in the ability of technology to provide security reflects a logic of total domination over the planet that renders us all into disposable standing reserve, this risks extinction.**
**Burke, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason 10:2 | [[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.emory.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html#copyright|©]] 2007 Anthony Burke War as a Way of Being: Lebanon 2006 (PhD, Anthony Burke was appointed to UNSW@ADFA in February 2008, after three years in the School of Social Sciences and International Studies at UNSW Sydney (2005-7) Theory & Event, Project Muse).</span>

__Bacon thought of the new...____obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.__

**Representations matter uniquely in the context of their affirmative: allowing discourses of technological inevitability to replace political dialogue creates conditions for a space war. Re-framing space politics requires challenging the rhetoric used to justify policies.**
**Grondin, 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel “Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes” THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, </span>__we have no way...__**__be possible, if not inevitable.__**


**Our framework is to put how we conceptualize space first—our interpretation of events in space is wholly dependent on our mindset—the kritik is a prior question**
**Stuart 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science (Jill, “Unbundling sovereignty, territory and the state in outer space Two approaches” From //Securing Outer Space,// Edited by Borrman and Sheean—Chapter 1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In regards to the study...unique politics of outer space.</span>

==Badiou== 

**The affirmative claim to save a particular identity group is what Badiou calls a simulacrum of the truth. Simulacrums are dangerous because they create an “us” of ethical insiders vs a “them” of outsiders. This is the root of war, racism, and genocide. Only a search for universals that we refuse to impose on others can be emancipatory.**
**Badiou, 98** (Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, //Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,// 73-77)

__What allows a genuine event__ …__it is terror directed at everyone.__


**Ethical rules maintain are an attempt to freeze the current order and are therefore nihilist and deeply conservative.**
**Badiou, 98** (Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, //Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,// 30-34)

__The very idea of a consensual 'ethics'__,..whose other name is: death drive.


**The alternative is to break with such rules and give ourselves over to the particular event—what Badiou calls fidelity to the event.**
**Badiou, 98** (Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, //Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,// 14-16)

Every collective will to the Good…ie in the shantytowns of Kinshasa.

**Our alternative can only succeed by maintaining its distance from the state. Politics must be conceived of as the search for a universal that is uncompromised by political calculations.**
**Badiou, 05** (http://www.lacan.com/badtruth.htm, Appears in //Metapolitics//, New York: Verso, 2005, Alain Badiou, • Highly Speculative Reasoning on the Concept of Democracy, translated Barbara Fulks).

__The representation of the State__,...the egalitarian maxim is practicable.

==Cap Bad== 

**Space exploration is merely an outlet for the state to expand its capitalist grip – infinite wars will be fought over new resources – also their advantages are made up and/or inevitable in capitalism**
**Dickens 9 –** *<span style="color: black;">Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, “The Cosmos as Capitalism’s Outside,” The Sociological Review, 57: 66–82, dml)</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">__The imminent conquest of__ outer…of a __temporary__, sticking-plaster, variety. </span>

**The choice is revolution or Armageddon. Capitalism is the driving force behind global wars that will culminate in extinction.**
**Callinicos ’04** [Alex, Director of the Centre for European Studies at King’s College, The Revolutionary Ideas of Karl Marx, 2004 pg. 196-197]

__Capitalism has not changed its__…then we must act on it.

**Hopelessness about the alternative is a manufactured myth. Calls for social justice, such as the civil rights movement, have been extraordinarily effective. New movements against capitalism are about to break out—we just need to think differently about what constitutes politics for them to succeed.**
**Graeber, 08** David Graeber, Lecturer in Anthropology at Goldsmiths College, December 8th [2008 http://endofcapitalism.com/2008/12/08/reawakening-the-revolutionary-imagination/#more-472]

We are... something genuinely new… __no longer able to see them__.
==Hillman== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">War defines us. It occupies an ancient component of our being. Political narratives that attempt to motivate us against war, i.e. an affirmative ballot, misunderstand the nature and cause of war. Traditional policy making understands war as an accident and something to be corrected. We must stop calling for changes to the political system in an attempt to prevent the accident of war. Instead, we must compassionately imagine war.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 05 </span>**(James, Founder of Post-Jungian archetypical psychology, __A Terrible Love of War__, p. 1-11)

One sentence in one scene...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">felt alive before or since."</span>
==Pan== 

**China is painted as a threat not because we have an objective understanding but because it fits within our definition of ourselves and justifies US power politics. These constant predictions of war leave no choice but to prepare for war—turning the case.**

**Our alternative is to vote negative to reject these representations—allowing for a more effective foreign policy.**
**Pan, 04** (Political Science, Australian National U, Chengxin, Department of Political Science at Australian National University, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, Alternatives, June-July, ebscohost)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have argued above that...</span>__China__ might __become possible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Images of threats reinforce the security dilemma between states and breed mutual antagonisms that make threat-thinking self-fulfilling prophecies. The affirmative’s construction of threats is based upon the grip of expert discourses that blind us to alternative views of reality—refusing this hegemony is a transformative act.**
**Foster, 94** ((Professor at the National Defense University), Gregory, Alternatives, v. 19 n.1 p. 86-88)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By ridding oneself of the...carelessly relinquished our fate to them. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">There has always been a China security threat—these perceptions are created by the US military-industrial complex. Our institutions need enemies to survive, and China fits the bill—this cycle of enemy creation necessitates the sacrificial destruction of millions.</span>**
**Clark, 06** (No Rest for 'China Threat' Lobby, Gregory Clark is vice president of Akita International University and a former Australian diplomat. Japan Times, Jan. 7, 2006, [[http://taiwansecurity.org/News/2006/JT-070106.htm]]).

__For as long as I have...____spent. And millions have died__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The United States creates enemies to define ourselves as a great civilization—China fulfills this role when we treat them as a threat. Instead, we ought to question this vision of universal American hegemony**.
**Pan, 04** (Political Science, Australian National U, Chengxin, Department of Political Science at Australian National University, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, Alternatives, June-July, ebscohost)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What does this U.S. self-knowledge...</span>__the totalized category of otherness__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==Security (Semis vs. Grady CD at Johns Creek)== 

**Reps of terror are a means of justifying empire, guarantees perpetual violence, kills VTL**
**Brown, 05 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of political science at UC Berkeley (Edgework//: Critical Essays on Knowledge and Politics//, Wendy, Professor of Poli Sci, UC Berkeley). </span>

__There are two powers in our...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">time of eternity, death's time.</span>


**Even if rogue states were valid concerns, singling them out demonizes them and recycles global hostility.**

**Campbell et al 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle (David, Stuart Elden, Stephen Graham, Alex Jeffrey, Alison J. Williams, Luiza Bialasiewicz, Political Geography 26: 2007, 411, "Performing security: the imaginative geographies of current US strategy", ScienceDirect)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Again, </span>__it is essential that ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> see Blum, 2002; Litwak, 2000).</span>


**The alt applies to actual crisis—causes better solutions**
**Smith 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales, President of the International Studies Association (Steve, “Critical security studies and world politics”, ed: Ken Booth, “The contested concept of security”, p. 51)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a later book, National Deconstruction,...</span><span class="Underline">be, or has been, reached.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Security (Round 5 vs. Carrollton UV at Harvard)</span>== 

**Climate Change is a subterfuge aimed at distracting its subjects from the perversions of the security state. The idea that the plan is all that is necessary is hubris in its purest form and comparable to Stalinism, that’s a reason to reject the aff.**
**Hulme 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor at the school of environmental sciences at the University of East Anglia (6/13, Mike, “Three Meanings of Climate Change: lamenting Eden, presaging Apocalypse, constructing Babel”, paper for the Future Ethics Workshop at the University of Manchester, “What is to be done: apocalyptic rhetoric and political action”</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">I have suggested three underlying ....</span> __obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.__

**Their faith in the ability of technology to provide resource security reflects a logic of total domination over the planet that renders us all into disposable standing reserve, this risks extinction.**
**Burke, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason 10:2 | [[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.emory.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html#copyright|©]] 2007 Anthony Burke War as a Way of Being: Lebanon 2006 (PhD, Anthony Burke was appointed to UNSW@ADFA in February 2008, after three years in the School of Social Sciences and International Studies at UNSW Sydney (2005-7) Theory & Event, Project Muse).</span>

__Bacon thought of the new....____obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.__

**The alt applies to actual crisis—causes better solutions**
**Smith 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales, President of the International Studies Association (Steve, “Critical security studies and world politics”, ed: Ken Booth, “The contested concept of security”, p. 51)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a later book, National Deconstruction,...</span><span class="Underline">be, or has been, reached.</span>

==Taoism== 

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Living in accord with the Tao precludes taking action to prevent death. As mere humans, we are blind to the overarching meaning of the universe and thus any action we take is unproductive and immoral. </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Kirkland 98</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> - Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, (1996, Russell Kirkland, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY CB)</span>

<span class="Underline">Once upon a time, several…more correctly said, especially not — ourselves.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Their calls to save humanity are based on a flawed fear of death and a misunderstanding of the continuous nature of the universe.</span>**
<span style="color: #000000;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Kirkland 98</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> - Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY CB)</span>

<span class="Underline">But by this definition, </span>the <span class="Underline">…he or she originally emerged.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">The alternative is to embrace the practice of Wu Wei, or “doing nothing” in order to appreciate the flow of the Tao – only through appreciating the natural order of life can we live according to Taoism.</span>**
<span style="color: #000000;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Kirkland 96</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> – Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "The Book of the Way," 24-29 CB)</span>

<span class="Underline">The focus of the Daode jing…</span>can thwart its unceasing operation<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Adopting a Taoist framework is necessary to reject anthropocentrism and to embrace deep ecology.** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Ambrosius 05**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – deep ecology researcher at UW (2005, Wendy Ambrosius “Deep Ecology: A Debate on the Role of Humans in the Environment” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.uwlax.edu/urc/jur-online/pdf/2005/ambrosius.pdf]] CB</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span class="Underline">In Deng Ming-Dao’s book, Everday Tao…</span> the mind of a deep ecologist.

=T= 

==USFG== 

**Resolved means to express by formal vote—this is the only definition that’s in the context of the resolution**
Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, 1998 (dictionary.com)

Resolved:
5. __To express, as an__ …(or, to appropriate no money).

**Federal government is central government**
**WEBSTER'S 76** NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY UNABRIDGED**,** p. 833.

__Federal government. Of or__ relating…unites __(as states__ or provinces).

==Military== 

**Space development refers to peaceful prosperity programs that are about sharing**
<span class="Underline">**Vuillemot** **01**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Aerospace Engineering, Masters of Science Computational Fluid Dynamics, Research Assistant; Professor Uri Shumlak • NASA Graduate Fellow, Masters of Science Technical Japanese (Ward W., “Japan’s Space Development: Past, Present, and Future”, [[http://web.mac.com/wwv/docs/japanese.space.development.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To begin, we will examine...space through mankind’s shared assets.” [11] </span>

==Mesosphere== 

**interpretation – Beyond means the farther side of**
<span class="Underline">**Random House 2011**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “Beyond” [[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/beyond]] [Lockwood]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[bee-ond, bih-yond] Show IPA –</span><span class="Underline">preposition 1. on, at, or to...beyonden, Old English begeondan. See be-, yond (adv.)</span>

<span class="Underline">**AND - Mesosphere means the activity must be above 50 miles from the surface of the Earth**</span>
<span class="Underline">**WEATHER CHANNEL 11** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Weather Channel – Weather Glossary, “M”, [[http://www.weather.com/glossary/m.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">MESOSPHERE</span>
The layer of<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span><span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.weather.com/glossary/a.html#atmo|atmosphere]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...(17 to 80 kilometers) </span>above the earth's surface__.__

**GROUND – the mesosphere is the distinguishing mark – it separates our environment from space.**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Athena 10</span> (Upper Atmosphere Wiki, “Mesosphere”, 4-26, [[http://www.athena-spu.gr/%7Eupperatmosphere/index.php/%20Mesosphere|http://www.athena-spu.gr/~upperatmosphere/index.php/ Mesosphere]])

Being the “gateway” that connects__...__ __its extensive study a pressing need__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

==Substantial== 

**Substantially should be defined by context**
**Devinsky, 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In reversing a summary judgment...upon reading the patent documents."</span>

<span class="Underline">**A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Alexander, 8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Wednesday, October 15, 2008,...guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.</span>

==Commercial== 

**Interpretation - Exploration is space science and development is the creation of commercial market activities**
**Hsu and Cox, 9 -** *Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Particularly, NASA needs reforms on...in solely by taxpayer contributions.</span>

==Human== 

**Interpretation - Exploration means to expand human presence to space**
**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many believe that the only sustainable... some of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Development requires staffed projects in space – this is distinct from tech.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Livingston 7 – Ph.D, thesis of Outer Space Comerce</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Dr. David, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, September 10th 2007)</span>

<span class="Underline">Eric </span>Westling is a<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> science writer...</span>//manned commercial projects// in space.

=Strats= 

==Wake== 

Round 1:

Bishop Guertin (UFO Anthropocentric Sovereignty)
1nc: T-USFG, Framework, Badiou k
2nr: T-USFG & Framework

Round 3:

Marriott's Ridge (SPS)
1nc: Ozone da, LSP cp, Weaponization da, Cap Bad k
2nr: Ozone da & LSP cp

Round 5:

John's Creek (Heteronormativity)
1nc: Framework, Highway Bill da, Cap Bad k, Taoism k
2nr: Cap Bad k & Case
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Resolved means to express by formal vote—this is the only definition that’s in the context of the resolution</span>**</span><span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, 1998 (dictionary.com)</span><span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Resolved:</span><span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">5. __To express, as an__ …(or, to appropriate no money)</span><span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Federal government is central government</span>**</span><span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">WEBSTER'S 76 </span>**NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY UNABRIDGED**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">, </span>**p. 8</span>
==Georgetown== 

Round 1:

St. Marks (ORS)
1nc: SKFTA da, Astropolitiks k, ESA cp, T-Military
2nr: SKFTA da & Case

Round 4:

Carrollton (SPS)
1nc: SKFTA da, Consult Japan cp, T-Mesosphere, Cap Bad k
2nr: SKFTA da & Case

Round 6:

New Trier (SPS)
1nc: SKFTA da, Launches da, LSP cp, Cap Bad k
2nr: Cap Bad k

==John's Creek== 

(With James Pavur)

Round 2:

Houston (Weaponization)
1nc: EPA da, Astropolitiks k, Nextgen cp, Vagueness cp
2nr: EPA da & Case

Round 3:

Northview (SBMD)
1nc: EPA da, Grey Alliance da, Pan k, Hillman k
2nr: Pan k & Case

Semis:

Grady (Space Marines)
1nc: EPA da, T-Development, Recommend cp, Security k
2nr: Security k

==Michigan== 

Round 2:

Northside (Environmental Monitoring)
1nc: Jobs Bill da, Taoism k, ESA cp, Japan Dump da
2nr: Jobs Bill da & Case

Round 4:

Lincoln Park (SPS)
1nc: LSP cp, Ozone da, Clarification PIC, T-Substantial
2nr: LSP cp & Ozone da

Round 6:

Lane Tech (SSA)
1nc: Astropolitiks k, EPA da, Near Space cp, Ozone da, T-Commercial
2nr: EPA da & Case

==Glenbrooks== 

Round 1:

Dowling Catholic (SBMD)
1nc: Astropolitiks k, Payroll Tax Cuts da, Recommend cp, T-Commercial
2nr: Astropolitiks k

Round 4:

Dunwoody (EOS)
1nc: ESA cp, Stratosats cp, Ozone da, Payroll Tax Cuts da, T-Commercial
2nr: ESA cp and Payroll Tax Cuts da

Round 6:

Pinecrest (ORS)
1nc: Astropolitiks k, Payroll Tax Cuts da, Near Space cp, Ozone da, T-Commercial
2nr: Astropolitiks k

==Lexington== 

Round 1:

UC Lab (SBL)
1nc: START da, Payroll Tax Cuts da, Astropolitiks k, T-Commercial
2nr: START da and Case

Round 4:

Edgemont (AEHF)
1nc: Payroll Tax Cuts da, Taoism k, T-Substantial, Recommend cp
2nr: Payroll Tax Cuts da and Case

Round 6:

Kinkaid (Nanotech)
1nc: Payroll Tax Cuts da, Recommend cp, NFU cp, T-Commercial
2nr: Payroll Tax Cuts da and Case

Doubles:

Pace (SPS)
1nc: LSP cp, Launches da, Payroll Tax cuts da, Astropolitiks k
2nr: LSP cp and Launches da

Octas:

Chattahoochee (Nanosats)
1nc: Recommend cp, Payroll Tax Cuts da, Hillman k, T-Commercial
2nr: T-Commercial

==Golden Desert== 

Round 1:

South Anchorage HL (Transorbital Railroad)
1nc: PTC da, Hillman k, Recommend cp, T-Human
2nc: T-Human

Round 4:

Marquette (Mars Col)
1nc: PTC da, China Shift da, Taoism k, ESA cp
2nr: PTC da and Case

Round 5:

Meadows (ORS)
1nc: PTC da, Taoism k, CoC cp, Militarization da
2nc: PTC da and CoC cp

==Harvard== 

Round 2:

Brophy (SPS)
1nc: SPS Purchase cp, LSP cp, Launches da, T-Human
2nr: LSP cp and Launches da

Round 3:

Pinecrest (ORS)
1nc: Astropolitiks k, Cybersecurity da, DoD Tradeoff da, T-Human
2nr: Astropolitiks k

Round 5:

Carrollton (SPS)
1nc: SPS Purchase cp, Security k, T-Human
2nr: SPS Purchase cp

Round 7:

Centennial (MDA)
1nc: ESA cp, Cybersecurity da, Astropolitiks k, T-Commercial
2nr: Cybersecurity da and Squo Solves


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">__<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">Federal government. Of or </span>__<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">relating…unites __(as states__ or provinces).</span></span>