[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Desert 1AC</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We begin with a place seemingly unrelated to the vacuum of space, yet oddly similar in its vast emptiness. The distinctly barren terrain of the desert places a unique ontological thought in the discussion of space policy. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Beck,</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">John, 19</span>**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">63</span>**//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Without Form and Void: The American Desert as Trope and Terrain”</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __Nepantla: Views from South__ - Volume 2, Issue 1, 2001, pp. 63-83</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Before the... ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> in North America.”</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We s</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">tand in the interregnum, or more specifically the desert, of the resolution and peer over the edge of the topical abyss. William Spanos writes that this abyss is “</span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a realm of in-between—the No more of the gods that have fled and the Not-yet of the god that is coming.” </span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It is in the status-quo development of this abyss that we find metaphysics. Current modes of thought view space, and the desert, in one of two roles: either productive and bountiful or unproductive and useless. Spanos defines Metaphysics as</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">:</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(William V., Prof @ Univ. of Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar & literary critic, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg 8-11 [AL])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Metaphysics is thus... ...and sociopolitical) manifestations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We return to Beck as he describes how the desert, the wild wasteful nothing, must be cultivated because it threatens "productive" ideals:</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Beck, John, 1963 </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Without Form and Void: The American Desert as Trope and Terrain”</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __Nepantla: Views from South__ - Volume 2, Issue 1, 2001, pp. 63-83</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Something about</span>__**... ...**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> is this ‘nothing’</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> ” (Heidegger 1949, 335–36).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space, so similar to the desert, has become the nothing of metaphysics. It is viewed through the trope of the empty wasteland, the vast unproductive nothingness. This nothing is difference, the in-between, the inhabited space of the bar that is excluded from policy discourse.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> **The response that status-quo space policy has to the nothing is informed by one of two metaphysical paths: either accommodate the nothing or banish it. Metaphysical thought assumes that this nothing must be converted to something; the wild, wasteful desert must be cultivated into a productive field, and the vast nothingness of space must be transformed into a site of productive existence.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 11-12 |MB|)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">However that "otherly"... ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> to the latter's essential truth.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United States has answered the challenge of the nothing by turning space into a new arena for the cycle of massacre and domination—a place to renew the American identity of exceptionalism and establish the Unites States as the preeminent sovereign over an endless territory.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Raymond </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Duvall</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Prof. U. Minnesota </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">&</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jonathan </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Havercroft</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> U. Victoria, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weaponization and the Production of Late-Modern Political Subjects”, Prepared for presentation at the annual meetings of the International Studies Association, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, p. http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p98680_index.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In Volume One of Capital...</span><span class="ReadingTextChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> ...</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">innovation, and exceptionalism.</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Also, the history of Imperialism and development are intertwined and both extend through multiple facets of life. Metaphorically, linguistically, and practically the two phenomena are very similar.</span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 94-99 |MB|)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This imperial relay</span>__**... ...and is Edward Said's immediate concern.64

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">To compliment Spanos, we provide Robert Marzec’s research about the history of enclosure that helps to reveal the complicitous nature of ontology and development with imperialism. The control of empty space is part of a master narrative of imperial closure that places the land into a series of binary oppositions. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marzec</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Robert. 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> “Enclosures, Colonization, and the Robinson Crusoe Syndrome:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> A Genealogy of Land in a Global Context”, boundary 2 29.2 (2002) 129-156.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">But to those... ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">nation against nation</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.32</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We return to John Beck as he notes how the attempt to accommodate the desert alters its identity to that of a site for instrumentality:</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Beck, John, 1963 </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Without Form and Void: The American Desert as Trope and Terrain”</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __Nepantla: Views from South__ - Volume 2, Issue 1, 2001, pp. 63-83</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Under the sign of vacancy</span>__**... ...**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">precariously over the abyss of noplace</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">” (186).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Instead of attempting to develop and define that which exists beyond definition, we embrace the unknowability of both space and its terrestrial counterpart—the desert—the same way we affirm the resolution. We affirm the topical “nothing” which is not opposed to, but part of</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Resolved: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth's mesosphere. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Marzec evidence also identifies the problem of approaching the world through certain frameworks. The desire to enclose discussion and make it manageable continues imperialism. It limits the questions we ask and the answers we can arrive at. These frameworks must accommodate discussion and inquiry or banish them, much the same way American policy seeks to accommodate or banish cultures outside of itself. More specifically, Beck notes that the Desert, the site of the nothing, is threatening to the “civilized world” //because// of its nothingness. The response we offer to the imperialist framework of the debate community is to infuse ontology into a concept of the problematic. We affirm the nothing which is not external to but is produced by, inside of, and belongs to the topic. It is the nonvision of vision. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We refuse to respond to our anxiety with an attempt to presence the resolution by breaking it down, staking out its boundaries in a way that treats beings as manageable and exploitable. We also refuse to abide by debate mandates that require us to trade our unique agency as youth and students now for some imagined future world as policy-makers. As Henry Giroux argues, we have unique power as students:</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry A. Giroux, "Channel surfing: racism, the media and the destruction of today's youth." 1998)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">But in spite of...</span> ...its vision of the future.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And so our role of the ballot is who best methodologically views the nothing positively. We realize that our philosophical stance has flaws and may fail. However, instead of attempting to find differences between certain branches of thought, we need to find similarities that allow for projects to resist disciplinary compartmentalization which ensures failure. Our advocation of ontology inserts a liberating question to the problematic, allowing for true reformation. </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Spanos 2K</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(William V., English and Comparative Literature Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, |MB|)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Having learned from its... ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;"> — and injustice — always rules.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ontology is inevitable – questioning the way we think about things is THE KEY to an effective understanding of all forms of modern political violence from genocide to totalitarianism—movements become oppressive without questioning ontology. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Michael </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dillon</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">MA and PhD and Professor in Department of philosophy, politics, and religion @ University of Lancaster</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, **__1999__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, __Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics__ Pgs. 96-98</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps the most important development... ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">only to be technocrats of decision making</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==Structural Violence Kritik== 
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">DING! </span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST STOP! LAS VEGAS!</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Adam, Writer for NPR) December 4, 2008 “Sucked into the tunnels underneath Las Vegas” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=97800190]]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It would be easy</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">and pulse of the lights.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">MUCH LIKE THE NEON LIGHTS OF LAS VEGAS, THE FLICKERING STARS ABOVE HAVE BECOME A TOURIST TRAP, BLINDING US FROM THE OPPRESSIVE REALITY SOCIETY’S MOST DISADVANTAGED MEMBERS ENDURE. MUMIA ABU JAMAL CALLED THIS INTO QUESTION WHEN HE SAID. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998 [“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> It has often been observed that</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">America is a truly violent nation</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence that occurs daily in the nation. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **__Every year__**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> some </span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">20,000 people are killed</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">... ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> every decade, throughout the world."</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Gilligan, p. 196]</span>

**IT IS IN THIS NEON HYPNOSIS THAT WE FIND THE AFFIRMATIVE, TOO CAUGHT UP IN REACHING FOR THE SKIES TO CARE ABOUT THE PEOPLE UNDERGROUND. TO ADDRESS THIS OPPRESSION WE MUST FIRST RECOGNIZE THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS HERMETICALLY TRAPPED IN ITS OWN IDEALS, AND CONTINUALLY SACRIFICES THE OTHER IN THE NAME OF ITS GLORIOUS NEON LIGHTS.** 
**Wadiwel in 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dinesh Joesph, “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol.1 #2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">But </span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">such a political program ...</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> ...shared by both entities</span>.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">POLITICS, OR DEBATE TEAMS, THAT CHOOSE TO IGNORE THE REALITY OF OPPRESSION ONLY SERVE TO CREATE AND RE-CREATE THAT OPPRESSION, AND FAIL TO CREATE ANY REAL CHANGE. </span>**
Paulo **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friere</span>**, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University,19**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">70</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the truly humanist educator... ...good intentions notwithstanding</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO PUSH DOWN; TO BEGIN POLITICS FROM THE STANDPOINT OF THE OPPRESSED. THESE POLITICS ARE ABLE TO COMBAT OPPRESSION THROUGH A KNOWLEDGE BASED STANDPOINT FROM THOSE WHO HAVE NOTHING ELSE TO GIVE. THIS KNOWLEDGE IS KEY TO BREAK DOWN THE OPPRESSIVE POWER STRUCTURES THAT GOVERN US.</span>**
<span style="color: #333333;">Brent R.</span><span class="CiteChar">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Henze</span>**</span><span class="CiteChar">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>**</span><span style="color: #333333;">“Who Says Who Says?: The Epistemological Grounds for Agency in Liberatory Political </span>Projects.” Found in Reclaiming Identity: Realist theory and the predicament of postmodernism. Edited by Paula Moya and Michael Hames-Garcia
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">CONCLUSION: WHAT ROLE CAN OTHERS PLAY IN THE POLITICS OF THE OPPRESSED?... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11.5pt;"> ...**to combat oppression as a systemic yet particular effect of power**</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">OUR ROLE OF THE BALLOT IS WHO BEST PERFORMATIVELY AND METHODOLOGICALLY CHALLENGES STRUCTURAL VIOLENCE. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> VOTING NEGATIVE IS AN ENDORSEMENT TO INCLUDE AND LISTEN TO THE VOICES OF THOSE WHOM WE HAVE FORGOTTEN. IN OTHER WORDS, WE CHOOSE TO IGNORE THE TEMPTING GLARE OF THE NEON LIGHTS AND RIDE THE ELEVATOR DOWN TO THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE BENEATH THE NEON. </span>**