=== === 
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==PDS 1AC== 
===Contention 1: Lies=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Major war is obsolete</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mandelbaum, 99</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, 2-25, “Is Major War Obsolete?” Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, February 25, 1999]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. </span>Only 10% of the global population dies in an all out nuclear war-this assumes epidemics, famine and fallout.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Martin, 82</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Brian, researcher at the University of Wollangong.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">“The global health effects of nuclear war.” //Current Affairs Bulletin//. Vol. 59, No. 7. pg. 14-26. <<span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82cab/index.html]]</span>>.] </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Deterrence checks nuclear conflicts</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Walsh</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, **85**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Lieutenant colonel in Air Force, ‚Äô85 [Edward, ‚ÄúNuclear War Opposing Viewpoints, p. 48] (PDNSS2240)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer our probable impacts</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> - **Predicting**</span>**<span class="cite" style="font-size: 12pt;"> the future is as accurate as a dart throwing chimpanzee</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tetlock and Gardner, 11 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dan Gardner is a journalist, author, and lecturer, attended Hall Law School and York University, Philip Tetlock is a Psychology Professor at the University of Pennsylvania, “Overcoming Our Aversion to Acknowledging Our Ignorance,” http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/11/dan-gardner-and-philip-tetlock/overcoming-our-aversion-to-acknowledging-our-ignorance/)</span>

===Contention 2: Inherency=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Detection of new asteroids, historical records and a move away from crater counting all indicate the risk of asteroids is high</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Easterbrook, 08</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June 2008]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Detection is improving we will find thousands of hazardous NEOs-the choice to deflect will be faced every 10 years </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jones, 08</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas, fellow at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. “Asteroid Deflection: Planning for the Inevitable,” October 2008, p. 14-16]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Congress has delegated NEO detection and deflection mission decisions to NASA</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Atkinson, 00</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Harry, Chair of the European Space Agency. Crispin Tickell, Policy Foresight Programme of the James Martin 21st Century School at the University of Oxford. David Williams, was Chancellor of Swansea University. “Report of the Task Force on Potentially Hazardous Near Earth Objects,” September 2000, p. 25]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Asteroid impacts are inevitable</span>
Verschuur 96
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gerrit, Adjunct Professor of Physics – University of Memphis, Impact: The Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

===Plan=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should establish and fully fund a non-nuclear planetary defense program.</span>**
=== === 
===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 3 is Advantages:</span>**=== 
====**1st – Armageddon**==== 
=== === 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. NASA is committing the US to a nuclear only option</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chapman, 07</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [Clark, Senior Scientist Senior Scientist, Southwest Research Institute Dept. of Space Studies at Boulder CO and Member of the Board, B612 Foundation. “Critique of “2006 Near-Earth Object Survey and Deflection Study: Final Report," May 2, 2007, p. 2-3] </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Most NEOs are porous</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Housen ‘3</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [Kevin and Keith Holsapple, Physical Sciences, MS 2T-50, The Boeing Company and Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 352400, U of Washington Impact cratering on porous asteroids, Icarus 163 (2003) 102–119 4-5]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Nuclear weapons fail to deflect porous NEOs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fountain ‘2</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [Henry, New York Times correspondent, Armageddon Can Wait: Stopping Killer Asteroids, November 19, <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2002/11/19/science/space/19ASTE.html]]</span>]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">4. Standoff fails – it’ll be absorbed</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fountain 02</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [Henry, New York Times correspondent, Armageddon Can Wait: Stopping Killer Asteroids, November 19, <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2002/11/19/science/space/19ASTE.html]]</span>]</span>

5. An asteroid impact will cause a host of impacts that lead to extinction
<span class="cite">Huggett 90</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Richard J., Senior Lecturer in Geography at the University of Manchester, England. He studied geography at University College London, both as an undergraduate and postgraduate, “The Bombardment of Earth,” Geography, Vol. 75, No. 2, pp. 114-127, pp. 114-127, April 1990, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/40571806]]]</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">6. They result in extinction – ozone depletion </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">MacCracken, 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Michael C., fellow at the Climate Institute. “The Climatic Effects of Asteroid and Comet Impacts: Consequences for an Increasingly Interconnected Society,” Chapter 16 of __Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach__, p. 284]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">7. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, a hit on the ocean is no safer: it would devastate world ecosystems:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Koplow</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, **2005** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[J.D., Georgetown University Law Center, Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Winter 2005, 17 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 273; p. 1]</span>

====2nd - The Nuclear Option==== 
1. Nuclear explosions cause fragmentation of the asteroid
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lu, 04 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [Edward, President of the b612 Foundation. Testimony of Edward Lu, B612 Foundation, before the Subcommittee on Science, Technology and Space of the Senate Commerce Committee, April 7, 2004, <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.b612foundation.org/press/press.html%5D|http://www.b612foundation.org/press/press.html]]</span>] </span>

2. Fragmentation prevents other forms of deflection
<span class="cite">Chapman ‘3 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Clark, scientist at the <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.swri.edu/default.htm|Southwest Research Institute]]</span>'s Department of Space Studies, Great Impact Debates, Collision Course for Earth 3/03 <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.astrobio.net/index.php?option=com_debate&task=detail&id=389]]</span>]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Fragmentation causes oxygen depletion and extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Verschurr, 96</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Gerrit, Adjunct Professor of Physics for the University of Memphis. __Impact: The Threat of Asteroids and Comets__, p. 51]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">4. Even if the detonation would succeed, dust fragments would cause explosions on Earth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nemchinov et al., 08 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Ivan, Walvery Shuvalov, and Vladamir Svetsov, Institute for Dynamics of Geospheres, Russian Academy of Sciences. “Main Factors of Hazards Due to Comets and Asteroids” in __Catastrophic Events Caused by Cosmic Objects__, p. 58-59]</span>

===Contention 4 is Solvency:=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. A policy change prevents the use of nukes</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Schweickart, 04</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, former astronaut, Executive Vice President of CTA Commercial Systems, Inc. and Director of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) Systems and research, and scientist at the Experimental Astronomy Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). “Asteroid Deflection; Hopes and Fears,” Presented at the World Federation of Scientists Workshop on Planetary Emergencies, August 2004, p. 9-10]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Combination of ground and space-based observations is key --- they provide complementary data necessary to accurately deflect</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NRC 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Research Council, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Plan allows new telescopes, radar, and development of deflection tech</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NRC 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Research Council, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Research on deflection methods //now// is key to effectiveness --- detection alone means tech will be undeveloped and untested</span>
NRC 10
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Research Council, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>

<span style="color: black;">5. </span>US leadership is key to effective planetary defense
<span class="cite">Dinerman, 09 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Taylor Dinerman, author of the textbook Space Science for Students and consultant for the US Defense Department, “the new politics of planetary defense,” 7/16/11, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1]</span>

<span style="color: black;">6. </span>The US is taking the lead in NEO defense-superiority of space policy and customs governing missile defense mean the world will pressure to the US to shoot at an incoming NEO
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Koplow, 05 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Justin L., JD Candidate Georgetown University Law Center. “Assessing the Creation of a Duty Under International Customary Law Whereby the United States of America Would Be Obligated to Defend a Foreign State Against the Catastrophic but Localized Damage of an Asteroid Impact,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Volume 17, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="color: #001481; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.allbusiness.com/finance/insurance-risk-management/887341-1.html]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, p. 18-19]</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]