[[toc]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aff cites: Marcus Azimi - [[mailto:mazimi43@gmail.com|mazimi43@gmail.com]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Neg cites: Jenny Post - [[mailto:postjenny@gmail.com|postjenny@gmail.com]]</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">***Affirmative***</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Planetary Defense 1AC</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Contention 1: Things that don’t cause extinction**</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No nuclear winter- this evidence assumes Robock’s new models</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Seitz 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, [[http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html]])</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">All that remains of Sagan's ….. for so long?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate change, disease, nuclear war, ozone depletion and other things don’t cause extinction.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Muehlhauser 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Luke, - Researcher at Singularity Institute, “Potential Causes of Total Human Extinction in the Next 200 Years”, 3/20/11[[http://commonsenseatheism.com/?p=14936]] Accessed 1/26/11 GAL)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Non-Prospects for Total Human Extinction …. facilities and military bunkers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Technological innovation and the democratic peace mitigate war, genocide, and climate change.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Peiser 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Benny, Social Anthropologist at Liverpool John Moores University, UK and scientific adviser to the Lifeboat Foundation, November 15, “Existential Risk and Democratic Peace”, [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7081804.stm]] Accessed 1/26/12 GAL)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Doomsday argument …. hitherto stage of history.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No nuclear war - UN peacekeeping and psychological shift make nuclear war extremely unlikely</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contreras 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Dominic, "Winning the War on War?." News, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, February1,2012,[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21707/winning_the_war_on_war.html?breadcrumb=%2Fproject%2F52%2Fintrastate_conflict_program]], Somya]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moderated by Harvard University Distinguished …. bear out the hopeful view.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The President of the United States should covertly develop planetary defense capabilities beyond the Earth's mesosphere, including development of advanced in-space propulsion technologies.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Contention 2: Things that do cause extinction**</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Scenario 1 is Near-Earth Objects**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, high risk of a strike - new research and history prove strikes happen often and a planet killer could come at any time</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Easterbrook 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Gregg, fellow at Brookings, June, the Atlantic Magazine, “The Sky is Falling”,[[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/2/]], 12-10-11, SRF)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Breakthrough ideas have … is riding on the plane.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NEO strike causes extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">McGuire 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Tunguska events pale into insignificance … comet heading in our direction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fortunately, detection is improving—we’ll discover thousands of potentially hazardous NEOs</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jones 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Thomas, fellow at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Asteroiddeflection: Planning for the inevitable,” Aerospace America, October, lexis)</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AS NASA's Spaceguard Survey … surrounding most impact calculations.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, NASA’s tight budget means we have no deflection strategy now</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Friend 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Tad – Department of Cosmic Debris, “Vermin of the Sky; Who will keep the planet safe from asteroids?”, The New Yorker, Lexis, Chetan]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NASA, for its part, is … regressed to being worse than the sixties."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NTR propulsion is the only way to deflect a large asteroid</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zhang et al 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - X-L Zhang, E Ball, C Granier, L Kochmanski and S D Howe - Centre for Space Nuclear Research, Idaho National Laboratory, “Near-Earth Object Interception Using Nuclear Thermal Rocket Propulsion”, Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal of Aerospace Engineering 2011 225: 181, Somya</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Selecting the optimal thrust … circumstances should apply to many NEO hazard scenarios.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Scenario 2 is Invasion**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extraterrestrial intelligent life exists – the Drake Equation predicts at least 10,000 other civilizations, and that’s an underestimate.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nadis 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - Steve Nadis – Editor for Astronomy Magazine, former staff researcher for the Union of Concerned Scientists, Nadis has also been a research fellow at MIT and a consultant to the World Resources Institute, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and WGBH/NOVA, Astronomy; Apr2010, Vol. 38 Issue 4, , “How many civilizations lurk in the cosmos? (cover story),” p24-29, EBSCO, Somya</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">To serve as an agenda, Drake devised an equation ….. before finding anything.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conservative inputs to the Drake equation suggest we should be visited at least once every human’s lifetime. We haven’t been attacked yet because humans have only been detectable for about 100 years.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 16-21 ]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We have produced electromagnetic spectra … broken down into a bar graph formal.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND - They are more likely to be hostile than friendly</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 108-110] edited for gendered language</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Before we address intentions it is …assuming the world governments are not doing so).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hostile contact would wipeout our civilization - they would be far more technologically advanced</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baum et al 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - Seth D. Baum, Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University, Jacob D. Haqq-Misra, . Department of Meteorology, Pennsylvania State University & Shawn D. Domagal-Goldman, NASA Planetary Science Division, “Would Contact with Extraterrestrials Benefit or Harm Humanity? A Scenario Analysis”, Acta Astronautica, 2011, 68(11-12): 2114-2129, Somya</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If contact between humans and ETI … help solve many of our problems.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bostrom 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.htm]])</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious ….benefit of such an action.[13]</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Contention 3 is Solvency**</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The most serious deficiency in planetary defense capabilities is lack of propulsion development - only the plan solves</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 159-161] edited for gendered language</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Most Serious Deficiency in …limited by sensor and computer technology. .</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan solves- secret efforts to develop nuclear thermal propulsion are essential to planetary defense</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 161-164]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Breakthrough Physics Propulsion In … large untouchable budget to fuel those efforts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Must act now to solve extinction- and, even if the invasion never occurs, the plan solves all other impacts.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 185-186]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As far as why there is a need … our options more seriously.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Secret unilateral action by the United States to promote space development is key- we have the best military, and multilateral or public efforts would become politicized and fail.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 139 – 145]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We must prepare as a nation. ... longevity of the human race.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The president has the authority to do the plan</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9px;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 147-148]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">***DSC = director Sixth Column</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Of course the DSC should have deputies … the Sixth Column’s birth.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 15pt;">Lunar Quarentine 1AC</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plantext</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Plan: The United States federal government should use the DIRECT launch mechanism to construct a lunar scientific outpost which includes a quarantine facility which will receive any future United States Mars sample return missions.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Plan: The United States federal government should construct a lunar scientific outpost using the DIRECT launch mechanism.**</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Inherency**__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A Mars Sample Return mission is inevitable - NASA’s cooperation with the ESA will send the Aurora mission to Mars in 2018**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**LaunchBase 11** [“Aurora Programme Information”, September 27th, 2011, [[http://www.launchbase.net/aurora_programme/encyclopedia.htm]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In recent years ……future planetary exploration[4].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**NASA is contracting the re-entry mission now – however its containment system doesn’t quarantine or sterilize the soil**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Aurora Flight Sciences 11** [“Aurora Flight Sciences Wins NASA Contract for a Mars Orbiting Sample Retrieval External Orbit Capture (MOSR/EXOCAP)”, March 21st, 2011, [[http://www.aurora.aero/Communications/Item.aspx?id=apr-270]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cambridge, MA, March 21, 2011 – The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has awarded Aurora Flight …..for later this decade.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Mars Sample Return**__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The current plan for MSR return is a Catcher's Mitt strategy to crash land the vehicle – risking planetary contamination**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**DiGregorio 1** [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The Quarantine And Certification Of Martian Samples”, May 31st, 2001, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/news/mars-life-01g.html]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NASA's sole contender ……things can and do go wrong.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Mars samples are way too dangerous to feel safe – they must be quarantined and analyzed for potential microbial life and diseases**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**DiGregorio 1** [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The dilemma of Mars sample return”, June 2001, [[http://pubs.acs.org/subscribe/journals/ci/31/special/digreg/08digregorio.html]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Several other notable scientists …..whether life ever arose on Mars.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The impact is the wipe-out of Earth – we have no defenses against potential space microbes**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Butler 7** [Jeb, “Unearthly Microbes and the Laws Designed to Resist Them” - 41 Ga. L. Rev. 1355, Summer 2007 (lexis), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">a. Back Contamination…….a second exposure could prove deadly.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND - The MSR spacecraft will be powered by RTGs – re-entry accident or crash landing risks the death of millions**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Rodrigue 2** [Christine M. Rodrigue - Professor and Chair Department of Geography California State University, “Emerging Risk Assessment and Management Controversies in the Mars Sample Return”, July 2002, [[http://www.csulb.edu/~rodrigue/bldrmars.html]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">For a number of years, I have investigated ….. and Nuclear Power in Space (no date).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A lunar quarantine facility solves**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**DiGregorio 6** [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “A Planetary Quarantine Laboratory On The Moon” (pg. 9), Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In consideration of all …..to the Moon.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Lunar Science**__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Global warming is real and undeniable, isolated incidents of cold spells don’t speak to the trend of climate change**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Jones 10** [Jenny, Administration of Air and Water Resource and Solid Waste Management Programs, “NOAA Offers Extensive Proof of Global Warming”, Civil Engineering (08857024); Sep2010, Vol. 80 Issue 9, p36-36, 1p, Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Global warming is undeniable…… following a 30-year trend.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Two internal links -**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**First, studying lunar regolith allows us to read ‘the solar record’ – letting us understand how climate change happens on Earth and what impact the Sun has on global warming**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Spudis 11** [Paul Spudis is a Senior Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, has a Masters Degree from Brown Univeristy in Planetary Geology. “The Moon’s Role in Climate Science”, March 22nd, 2011, [[http://blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2011/03/the-moons-role-in-climate-science/]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A recent article about the role…… waits for us on the Moon.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND – the Moon is the perfect laboratory for isolating the solar effect on terrestrial warming – predicting future climate change necessitiates an understanding of solar radiation**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Huang and Pollack 10** [Shaopeng and Henry N. - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “The Moon - A Witness to the Anthropogenic Effect of Global Warming on Earth”, July 23rd, 2010, [[http://www.geo.lsa.umich.edu/~shaopeng/msgc01-poster.pdf]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is widely believed ……temperature versus depth.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Second, a climate observatory on the Moon gives us the observation angle to compare solar and terrestrial radiation**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Huang 8** [Shaopeng - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “Surface temperatures at the nearside of the Moon as a record of the radiation budget of Earth’s climate system”, Advances in Space Research Volume 41, Issue 11, 2008, Pages 1853-1860, Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Understanding the balance between ……of terrestrial climate change.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**These views of the Earth are critical to useful climate models**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Schmitt 10** [Dr. Harrison Schmitt is a former astronaut. He received a bachelor of science degree in science from the California Institute of Technology, a doctorate in geology from Harvard University and was the project chief at the U.S. Geological Survey's Astrogeology Center for lunar field geological methods and participated in photo and telescopic mapping of the Moon. “Observations Necessary for Useful Global Climate Models” – White Paper submitted to NASA, [[http://www.lpi.usra.edu/decadal/leag/DecadalClimate.pdf]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Critical differences exist between scientists ……whether warming or cooling.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND - Cap and trade legislation is inevitable – changing attitudes toward climate change**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Murray 8** [James, “Despite Senate defeat, US cap-and-trade hailed as "inevitable"”, June 9th, 2008,[[http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/news/1802154/despite-senate-defeat-us-cap-trade-hailed-inevitable]], Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The bill was defeated …..pollution is inevitable."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**However, an incomplete understanding of warming, lack of assessment data and accurate models are hurting its chances**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Lewis et al. 10** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]], Chetan]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Climate change is a global problem….respond to the climate</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Cap and trade is by and large the most effective way to cap emissions and solve warming**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Pew 9** [The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is a non-profit, non-partisan, independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. “Climate Change 101 Cap and Trade”, January 2009, [[http://www.pewclimate.org/docUploads/Climate101-CapTrade-Jan09.pdf]], Chetan]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cap-and-trade……GHG reduction program.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Data is key – US is essential for global climate consensus**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Lewis et al. 10** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Slowly, painfully, we are developing……rumored and uncertain landmarks.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Warming is the most likely scenario for extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Deibel 7** [Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, there is one major existential threat…..but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__**Solvency**__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**DIRECT’s utilization of Shuttle infrastructure reduces launch time, requires only two launches, and will have humans on the Moon within the decade**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Seedhouse 9** [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (pg. 234), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">DIRECT architecture advantages …..being even further delayed.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The Jupiter launch systems have more than enough launch capacity for a lunar base**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Seedhouse 9** [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (221-222), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jupiter 120 and Jupiter 232 …….IMLEO requirement by 40 tonnes!</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Lunar base in the South Pole is optimal – resolves most issues with human settlement**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Seedhouse 9** [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (124-125), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The site of NASA's outpost…..recent radar data.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gender 1AC Wake</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**We start with some background information: the history of space travel in the United States has been based off of a model that attempts to regulate which bodies should do what, this system was used to prevent the Mercury 13, a group of females from participating in early space exploration**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sage 2009 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span>Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The masculine self-identity…recreational equipment (from Parade Magazine Sunday Supplement, December 1962 – quoted in Kevles, 2003: 4).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Normative gender binaries still exist within NASA due to heteronormative structures**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sage 2009 </span>**(Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is important to note… environments: the spacecraft.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**This had caused male bodies to be viewed as the norm against which female bodies are judged and sets up a heteronormative system of norms in order to conquer for the good of everyone**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griffin 9 </span>**(Penny __Griffin__, Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Australia, 20__09__, Securing Outer Space, ed. N. Bormann & Michael Sheehan, p. 73)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Humans, suggests Crawford … good of everyone.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**NASA’s beliefs concerning sexuality shape the future of space and society**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moore and Casper ‘95 </span>**[Casper, Monica J. and Moore, Lisa Jean, Monica J. Casper was awarded her Ph.D. in sociology in 1995 by UCSF and in 1996 completed a postdoctoral fellowship in biomedical ethics at Stanford University. She served several years as a faculty member in sociology at UC Santa Cruz, and in 2004 became director of women’s and gender studies at Vanderbilt University. Lisa Jean Moore, MPH in Epidemiology at The University of California, Berkeley, Ph.D. in Sociology at The University of California, San Francisco, BA of Sociology and English at Tufts University and a professor of Sociology and Gender Studies, at The State University of New York, School of Natural and Social Sciences. University of California Press, “Inscribing Bodies, Inscribing the Future: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space,” Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 38, No. 2 (Summer, 1995), pp. 311-333]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA</span>, as a total institution, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>nature of human sexuality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The heteronormative project seeks to eliminate difference, this culminates in omnicide**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sedgewick 8 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span>Eve __Sedgwick__, Professor of English at Duke University, __2008__, //Epistemology of the Closet//, second revised edition, California at Berkeley Press, p. 127-130)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">From at least the biblical story</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**1AC is key to analyzing and breaking down normative conceptions of gender**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sage 2009 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span>Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, “Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender”,)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Popular portrayals of American spaceflight … NASA and (iii) female astronauts.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The method of the 1AC is crucial to generating any real change – only by generating change in thought can we have any real change**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kritzman 88 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span>Lawrence D. Kritzman, prof of French and Comparative Lit @ Dartmouth, “Practicing Criticism”, Foucault: Politics, Philosophy, Culture, 1988. pgs 154-156)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">FOUCAULT: First I’ll answer the… will always be the same</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Geneology allows us to realize new modes of liberation and break out of the ethics of science**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smart 94 </span>**(Barry Smart, Prof of sociology @ U of Portsmouth, 1994,Michel Foucault. Critical Assessments, pg 174-5)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="Underline">While Foucault's genealogy …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">live a beautiful life.</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gender 1AC Hooch</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**We start with some background information: the history of space travel in the United States has been based off of a model that attempts to regulate which bodies should do what, this system was used to prevent the Mercury 13, a group of females from participating in early space exploration**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Sage 2009** (Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The masculine self-identity…recreational equipment (from Parade Magazine Sunday Supplement, December 1962 – quoted in Kevles, 2003: 4).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Normative gender binaries still exist within NASA due to heteronormative structures**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Sage 2009** (Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is important to note… environments: the spacecraft.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**This had caused male bodies to be viewed as the norm against which female bodies are judged and sets up a heteronormative system of norms in order to conquer for the good of everyone**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Griffin 9** (Penny __Griffin__, Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Australia, 20__09__, Securing Outer Space, ed. N. Bormann & Michael Sheehan, p. 73)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Humans, suggests Crawford … good of everyone.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**NASA’s beliefs concerning sexuality shape the future of space and society**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Moore and Casper ‘95** [Casper, Monica J. and Moore, Lisa Jean, Monica J. Casper was awarded her Ph.D. in sociology in 1995 by UCSF and in 1996 completed a postdoctoral fellowship in biomedical ethics at Stanford University. She served several years as a faculty member in sociology at UC Santa Cruz, and in 2004 became director of women’s and gender studies at Vanderbilt University. Lisa Jean Moore, MPH in Epidemiology at The University of California, Berkeley, Ph.D. in Sociology at The University of California, San Francisco, BA of Sociology and English at Tufts University and a professor of Sociology and Gender Studies, at The State University of New York, School of Natural and Social Sciences. University of California Press, “Inscribing Bodies, Inscribing the Future: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space,” Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 38, No. 2 (Summer, 1995), pp. 311-333]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NASA, as a total institution, …nature of human sexuality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**This sort of normative violence enables physical violence at the same time as it erases it from view**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Chambers and Carver 8**(Samuel and Terrell, senior lecturer in politics at swaansea university and prof of political theory @ Bristol, Judith Butler and Political Theory, pg 75-6)'</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">‘The world is a… our ordinary view.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**And this sort of normative violence shapes our lives and the lives of those around us every day rendering certain lives unreal and unrealizable**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Chambers and Carver** **8 (**Samuel and Terrell, senior lecturer in politics at swaansea university and prof of political theory @ Bristol, Judith Butler and Political Theory, pg 78)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Butler calls the …violence of the letter.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**1AC is key to analyzing and breaking down normative conceptions of gender**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Sage 2009** (Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, “Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender”,)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Popular portrayals of American spaceflight … NASA and (iii) female astronauts.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The method of the 1AC is crucial to generating any real change – only by generating change in thought can we have any real change**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Kritzman 88** (Lawrence D. Kritzman, prof of French and Comparative Lit @ Dartmouth, “Practicing Criticism”, Foucault: Politics, Philosophy, Culture, 1988. pgs 154-156)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">FOUCAULT: First I’ll answer the… will always be the same</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Geneology allows us to realize new modes of liberation and break out of the ethics of science**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Smart 94** (Barry Smart, Prof of sociology @ U of Portsmouth, 1994,Michel Foucault. Critical Assessments, pg 174-5)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="underline">While Foucault's genealogy …</span>live a beautiful life.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Extra Card for Round 6</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The heteronormative project seeks to eliminate difference, this culminates in omnicide**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sedgewick 8 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span>Eve __Sedgwick__, Professor of English at Duke University, __2008__, //Epistemology of the Closet//, second revised edition, California at Berkeley Press, p. 127-130)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">From at least the biblical story</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">***Negative***</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disads</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Social Justice DA</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Funding for the plan is an unjust use of resources. The affirmative’s choice to fund space programs trades off directly with funding for social services – leaving those homeless and starved helpless</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Yost 10</span>** [Keith Yost, staff columnist for The Tech, MIT's oldest and largest newspaper published by the undergraduate and graduate students of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2010 (“Point: Spaceman, go home. The U.S. should reduce spending on space exploration,” Published on April 9, 2010 (Volume 130, Issue 18) Available Online at [[http://tech.mit.edu/V130/N18/nasap.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The White House has announced plans...than planting flags on planets.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**This failure of prioritization creates social alienation, a limiting of political solutions and options, and the possibility of total annihilation—we need to focus on social safety nets, or extinction is inevitable. Every instance of resistance is key.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Duarte 5**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Andre, Prof of Philosophy at Universidade Federal do Parana Curitiba, Brazil. “Biolopitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present.” </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">[[http://www.hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Towards the notion of biopolitics in Arendt’s thought ... welcoming, of extending hospitality and solidarity towards others.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ozone DA</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Increased rocket launches crush the ozone – the status quo is sustainable**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Ross et. al. 9 (**Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, January, [[http://www.makealeap.org/node/41204]]) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The global market … could become significant.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Ozone depletion means extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Festive Earth Society, 8** (February 26, “The Ozone Layer,” [[http://festiveearth.com/content/view/96/54/index.html]], JM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The ozone layer is …we know it, to exist.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cape Canaveral DA</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">**Cape Canaveral is normal means for launches – closest to the equator and its on the east coast**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 90%;">**Primer 9**</span> (Magazine, 11/17/9, http://www.primermagazine.com/2009/field-manual/know-it-all-why-does-nasa-launch-their-shuttles-from-florida) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It seems … or Puerto Rico).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Cape Canaveral is home to the Florida Scrub Jay – expanded launches kill its habitat</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 90%;">George 11</span>** (Donald, staff sergeant U.S. Air Force, Spring, Endangered Species Bulletin, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0ASV/is_1_36/ai_n57586307/) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cape Canaveral Air Force Station is … the habitat loss.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Perchlorate DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Rocket fuel emits perchlorate – pollutes water and puts babies at risk of developmental issues**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 110%;">**Madsen and Jahagirdar 6**</span> (Travis Madsen – Policy Analyst at Frontier Group and Sujatha Jahagirdar – Political Director at Student PIRGs, spring 2006, “The Politics of Rocket Fuel Pollution”, http://www.environmentcalifornia.org/reports/clean-water/clean-water-program-reports/the-politics-of-rocket-fuel-pollution) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The main ingredient … of municipal wells.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 19px;">Perchlorate causes cancer, birth defects and other problems</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Anderson 3</span>** (Adrienne, professor of Environmental & Ethnic Studies @ Boulder U, December 2003, http://www.zcommunications.org/planetary-casualties-an-interview-with-adrienne-anderson-by-david-barsamian) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A horrific wave … throughout California.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Counterplan</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**DoD CP**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND, THE COUNTERPLAN SOLVES – PLANETARY DEFENSE IS A NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUE, NOT A SPACE EXPLORATION ISSUE - DOD HAS THE MOST EXPERTISE**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lt col Garretson and Major Kaupa 07 (peter United States Air Force HQ USAF Future Concepts, the Pentagon, Douglas United States Air Force 445th Flight Test Squadron, “Planetary Defense: Potential Department of Defense Mitigation Roles”, Jan 3, 2007, [[http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/documents/Potential-DoD-Roles--Garretson.pdf]]) rory</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Both NASA and …North Atlantic Treaty Organization.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND, STRATCOM is the best option for planetary defense – multiple reasons**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Garretson and Kaupa, 8** (Lieutenant Colonel Garretson, chief of Future Science and Technology Exploration Branch, Major Kaupa, chief of staff of the Air Force’s top-priority acquisition program, Air & Space Power Journal - Fall 2008, “ Planetary Defense Potential Mitigation Roles of the Department of Defense, 7/13/11, [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj08/fal08/garretson.html]]) Hou</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Within the DOD, …North Atlantic Treaty Organization.19</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">EIS CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 120%;">**Impact statement ensures plan does not have devastating effect on environment**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 120%;">**Wexler 8**</span> (<span style="font-size: 11px;">Lesley, Professor of Law – Florida State University and Former Debater – University of Michigan, “Human Rights Impact Assessments: An Immigration Case Study”, Georgetown Immigration Law Journal, 22 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 285, Winter, Lexis)sbl</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Under the National Environmental Protection Act of…reasonable alternatives. </span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kritik</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cap. K</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="tagChar">The plan is a last ditch effort at averting crisis by making an ‘outer spatial fix’ to resolve the core contradictions of capitalism</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="tagChar">Dickens 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end] AD: 6-29-11, jam)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside.. their own cosmic “fixes.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="tagChar">B. Impact: The search for outer spatial fixes to capitalism causes Star Wars- whole societies will be obliterated</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="tagChar">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, and J.S., Senior Lecturer of Applied Social Science @ U of Brighton, "Cosmic society: towards a sociology of the universe," book, p. 63-64, jam) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//Outer spatial fixes: for …accumulation may be started.//</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**C. Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="cite">Herod 2004</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(James, Getting Free, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//It is time to try … even to extinction.//</span>
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Heg. K</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">A. Their depiction of United States “benevolent hegemony” is massively ignorant of history and legitimizes the third American holocaust. Kagan promotes a framework of American universal American history which terminates the being of all others. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">**Sardar & Wyn Davies ‘4** [Ziauddin, </span>Visiting Professor, the School of Arts, The City University, London, <span style="font-size: 16px;">Chair – Muslim Institute; Merryl, Welsh Muslim anthropologist; __American Terminator: Myths, Movies, and Global Power__ p211]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Consider, for example... people at all!</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**B. This eternal projection of hegemonic imperialism into the future is a denial of the challenge of historical time- the slogan “there is no alternative” is mindlessly repeated as the “end of history” is declared. This attempt to maintain the eternal present as the ideal of history ignores vast structural inequalities and ongoing genocidal wars, threatening human survival.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 110%;">**Meszaros 2008**</span> (Istvan, professor emeritus @ U Sussex, __The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time__, p. 21-24 Emphasis in original, GAL)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The apologists …a bad memory.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">**C. The sheer arrogance required to declare the present moment the end of history is mind-boggling- never before, in absolute figures, have violence, inequality, exclusion, famine, and extermination affected so many people on earth.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 110%;">**Pomeroy 2004**</span> (Anne Fairchild, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Religion Vice-President of the Stockton Federation of Teachers Co-Coordinator of the Radical Philosophy Association, “Marx and Whitehead: process, dialectics, and the critique of capitalism”, p. 163)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our “economy” is our promote human life?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">D. The Alternative: Domination and hegemony are not inevitable, but the aff’s claim that they are creates a self-fulfilling prophecy- rejection of the affirmative’s arguments that aggression is part of human nature opens space for a new conception of international relations that solves all conflict.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Busser 6 </span>**(Mark, York Center for International and Security Studies, YCISS Working Paper Number 40, “The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations”, August, p. 23-24 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Unfortunately for … and between states.</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative Strategy</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Wake**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 1 vs. Milton CV (SSA)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Ozone DA, Cape Canaveral DA, Politics (Highway bill), Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Cape Canaveral DA, Politics, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR:Ozone DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Ozone DA, Cape Canaveral DA, Case</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 5 vs. Dunwoody LL (Climate Sats.)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Ozone DA, Cape Canaveral DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Ozone DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Cape Canaveral DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Ozone DA, Cape Canaveral DA</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hooch</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 2 vs. Calhoun EM (Sats. Hardening)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Ozone DA, Cap. K, Social Justice DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Cap. K, Social Justice DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Ozone DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Ozone DA</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 4 vs. Westminster WZ (Astroid Deflection)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: DoD CP, Cap. K, Social Justice DA, Impact Calc. (on seperate flow), Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Cap K, Social Justice DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: DoD CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Cap. K</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Umich</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 2 vs. Chattahoochee DT (Nanosats.)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Ozone DA, Heg K., EIS CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Heg K</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Ozone DA, EIS CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Heg K, Ozone DA, EIS CP</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 4 vs. H.H Dow (Space Guard/SSA)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Ozone DA, EIS CP, Heg K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Heg K</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Ozone DA, EIS,CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Heg K</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 5 vs. Seaholm (SPS)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Spending DA, Ozone DA, EIS CP, Heg Bad, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Spending, EIS CP, Ozone DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Heg Bad, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Heg Bad, Ozone DA, Spending, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 7 vs. UC Lab (SSA)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Heg K, Ozone DA, EIS CP, Case,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Heg K</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Ozone DA, EIS CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Heg K</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Northview</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 1 vs. Alpharetta Z? (SPS)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Spending DA, Ozone DA, EIS CP, Heg Bad, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Spending DA, Ozone DA, EIS CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Heg Bad, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Spending DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 4 vs. Woodward NS (TSATS)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Heg K, Ozone DA, EIS CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Heg K</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Heg.K</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ohio Valley w/ Ofir</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 2 vs. Beacon BB (Planet Junior Brown)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Cap K, Framework, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Framework</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Cap K, Framework</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 4 vs. Vestavia DC (Asteroid Mining)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**2NR:** **Heg Bad**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 5 vs. Milton DS (SSA)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**2NR: EIS CP**</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Vestavia Hills w/ Ofir</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 1 vs. USN MS (ITAR)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: T-Sub./Its, Cap K, Ozone DA, China DA (On solvency), Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: T- Sub/ Its, China DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Ozone DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Ozone DA</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 3 vs. St. Andrews Episcopal CA? (Constellation)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Cap. K, Ozone DA, EIS CP, ????, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: case, Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Ozone DA, EIS CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Ozone DA, EIS CP</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 5 vs. Westminster (DRAGNETS)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Weaponization DA, EIS CP, Ozone DA, University CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Weaponization, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: EIS CP, Ozone DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Ozone, EIS CP</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">GFCA Varsity State</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 1 vs. Carrollton SJ (He3 mining)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Cap. K, Ableism (Cripple), Soical Justice DA, OST DA, He3 DA, De-Dev., Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Ableism, Social Justice, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: De-dev,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Case D, De-Dev.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 3 vs. Marist TM (Space Corp.)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Weaponization DA, Heg. K, T- Develop, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: T, Heg K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Weaponization DA</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Round 5 vs. Dunwoody GH (Earth Observation Sats/)**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC: Heg K, T-Sub., Social Justice DA, Ozone DA, Perchlorate DA, Case, Militarism Turns,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC: Heg K, Heg Adv., Militarism Turns, Social Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NR: Ozone DA, Perchlorate DA, Climate Advantage</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NR: Heg K. Case D</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
----