__**Affirmative- (Read by IL)**__

**__Plan-__**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">The United State federal government should establish a Space Guard for civil space services support.</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Advt. 1- Deterrence</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">~Air Force’s space support services undermines the war-fighting mission </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">McKinley 00 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. [Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley, “The Guardians of Space: Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” __Aerospace Power Journal__ - Spring 2000, pg. [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm/edlee|http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm//edlee]]]</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Organizations are created to accomplish a unique set of missions</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">...</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Like trying to mix oil and water, it is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, quite simply, unrealistic to expect the two to become one.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">~And, it prevents recapitalization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">McKinley 00 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. [Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley, “The Guardians of Space: Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” __Aerospace Power Journal__ - Spring 2000, pg. [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm/edlee|http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm//edlee]]]</span>



__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Today's </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">zero-sum budget environment</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> does not provide enough money</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">for organizations </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">to support</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the Air Force must be allowed to carve out the space services</span>__**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">portion of its current responsibilities.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">~AND, Revitalization of the Air Force is key to US global deterrence. –Air Force overstretched now </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Moseley 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">- 18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force [General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” __CSAF White Paper__, 29 Dec 2007, pg. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]//edlee]//</span>



//__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">No modern war has been won without air superiority</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cross-domain dominance is essential to victory</span>__//


//<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">~</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Deterrence prevents the escalation of regional disputes - Preserving our ability to quickly respond to a crisis is key</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Gerson & Whiteneck 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Research analysts @ Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center, where he focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, and arms control [Michael Gerson (M.A. in International Relations from the University of Chicago) & Daniel Whiteneck, “Deterrence and Influence: The Navy's Role in Preventing War,” __CNA Analysis and Solutions__, March 2009</span>//edlee]



__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Conventional deterrence</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">plays an important role in deterring</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> non-nuclear aggression by</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> nuclear-armed regimes</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">can help deter escalation and terminate conflicts</span>__**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">~</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">These disputes will be settled with nuclear wars – Only a credible US deterrence can prevent </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Kagan 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> –Professor of History @ Georgetown University [Robert Kagan (Senior associate @ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), “End of Dreams, Return of History,” __Policy Review__, August & September 2007, pg. http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html]</span>



__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Were the U</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">to diminish its influence</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the other nations would settle disputes</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and global involvement </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">will provide an easier path</span>__


<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">~</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Space Guard solves – It allows the air force to focus on its core competencies</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">McKinley 00 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. [Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley, “The Guardians of Space: Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” __Aerospace Power Journal__ - Spring 2000, pg. [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm/edlee|http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm//edlee]]]</span>




__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It frees the Air Force to realize its vision to become a fully capable aerospace force</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">the Space Guard—is our best hope for satisfying the competing interests of all government and commercial sectors.</span>__









**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Advt. 2- Shortage</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">~Military control hinders it – Enhanced transparency is critical to prevent satellite collisions and conflicts </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Weeden 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Technical consultant @ Secure World Foundation [Brian Weeden (Former U.S. Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations) "Space Sustainability: To Preserve and Protect...," __Satellite Magazine__, March 2009, pg. http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455//edlee//</span>



//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">More recently, </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">we have</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">learned that the space environment is fragile</span>__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and create what is truly needed for the benefit of all humankind.</span>//




//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">~</span>**Current methods are unable to track the smallest kind of debris and have much difficulty tracking satellites**//
//**__Kelso__** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Research Astrodynamicist at the Center for Space Standards and Innovation</span> – **__2010__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(T.S., Phd., High Frontier: The Journal for Space and Cyberspace Professionals, “How International Collaboration is Improving Space Situational Awareness,” February 2010, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-100226-085.pdf)</span>//



//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">That network is </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a collection of dedicated, collateral, and contributing radar and optical sensors designed and built</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">would seem that there is little that satellite operators can do to protect their satellites. </span>__//




//**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">~A cooperative arrangement mitigates the dangers of space wars and debris - It fosters best practice standards and prevents miscalculations </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Rendleman 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Retired Colonel in U.S. Air Force [James R. Rendleman, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” __Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy__, Volume 8, Issue 2 & 3, 2010, Pages 220 - 255 </span>//edlee]


<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Samuel Black argues that </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">‘‘space assurance’’ should be the **ultimate objective** of a space strategy</span>__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">avoid disruptive or destructive events</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">~Space assets are fundamental to our existence. Disruption will trigger rapid collapse of the social order </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Hansson 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of Automatic Control and Electrical Engineering @ Linköpings Universitet [Anders Hansson, “A third age in space? RUSI’s ‘New Directions in Missile Defence’ Conference,” </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space Policy</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 25 (2009) 267e268//edlee]//</span>



//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While some at the conference despaired of such developments...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">we can no longer ignore our dependency on space - based assets.</span>__//



//<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">~</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">**The impact will be __global__. Resource constraints prevent a smooth transition** </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Moore 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Research fellow with the Independent Institute [Mike Moore (Former editor of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists), “Securing the Commons of Space,” Presentation to the Secretary-General's Advisory Board</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">on Disarmament Matters, February 21, 2008, pg. www.worldacademy.org/files/UN%20testimony.doc</span>//edlee]



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Precisely as Granoff suggested in his testimony last July, </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the global economy</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">and armed conflict over diminishing resources</span>__**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">~</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Shortages will trigger wars, diseases & famines – It will sow the seeds for human extinction </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Aguilar-Millan et al 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of research @ European Futures Observatory [Stephen Aguilar-Millan (Member of the Global Advisory Council of the World Future Society and the Board of the Association of Professional Futurists), Ann Feeney (Member of the Association of Professional Futurists and its board and is a Certified Association Executive), Amy Oberg (Managing partner at Future-In-Sight, LLC. 25 years of experience), and Elizabeth Rudd (Risk assessment consultant), “The Post-Scarcity World of 2050-2075,” The Futurist, Jan/Feb 2010, pg. [[http://www.eufo.org/psw1.pdf/edlee|http://www.eufo.org/psw1.pdf//edlee]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Historically, there have been periods when large numbers of the global population...</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the seeds of the destruction of civilization.</span>**





**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Advt. 3- NEO's</span>__</span>**


~**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Finally, The plan increases cooperation - Air Force is not trusted and they have a talent shortage</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Bennett 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute [James C. Bennett, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, October 2010, pg. spaceguard-GWUpaper.pdf//edlee]//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Recent events have underscored the reality that</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">current means of achieving</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> space situational awareness (</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SSA</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">) ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">would be perfectly supportive of </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">an ultimate goal of</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> becoming Commandant </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">of the Space Guard</span>//



//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">~</span>**Technology for prevention exists but we need the data - SSA is key to detecting asteroids**//

//**Johnston et al 9**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">-Steven Johnston, Associate professor at University of South Florida, Kenji Takeda, Solutions Architect and Technical Manager for the Microsoft Research Connections EMEA team, Hugh Lewis, Phd, Professor at Southampton, Simon Cox Director of the Microsoft Institute of High Performance Computing at the University of Southampton and Graham Swinerd PhD</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">“Cloud Computing for Planetary Defense” October 2009 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.mendeley.com/research/cloud-computing-for-planetary-defense/]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">In this paper we demonstrate how a cloud-based </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">computing architecture can be used for</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">help improve planetary defense capability for all.</span>__//



//~**Impact is extinction. Time frame is fast and all their impact defense is wrong**//

//**Brownfield ‘4**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> - (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">)</span>//



//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Left to its own fate</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> -- </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">on impact -- this Rock would</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">knife to a gunfight</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. </span>//





//**__~Undetected__ small objects trigger military early-warning systems, sparking accidental nuclear war**//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">David 2</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Leonard, Senior Space Writer – Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?”, 6-6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Military strategists and space scientists that wonder and worry about a...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">nuclear detonation and it may </span>//**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">trigger a war</span>__**//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">,</span>__//


//**~That escalates to __global nuclear war__**//

//<span class="Heading2Char">Forrow 98</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Lachlan, MD, et al, “Accidental Nuclear War – A Post-Cold War Assessment”, New England Journal of Medicine, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/20625/acciden_nuke_war.pdf)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Earlier assessments have documented in detail the problems of caring for</span>**...**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">an </span>//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">all-out nuclear exchange</span>__//