[[toc]]
===Contact=== 
marcus.a.edmonds.182@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==EOS 1AC== 
**NASA is launching new weather monitoring technology—but lacks a comprehensive plan which makes data gaps inevitable and kills tech development**

(alternatively: “DAs are non unique but the aff is still wicked inherent”)

Quirin Schiermeier, “Climate researchers warn of data crisis,” Nature News, 10-28-2011, http://www.nature.com/news/2011/111028/full/news.2011.616.html

Climate scientists warn that critical gaps in climate data could open up after the current generation of Earth-observation satellites comes to the end of its life, with the next generation nowhere near ready to take over. The problem is exacerbated by the lack of an adequate replacement for a pair of Earth-observation satellites, the Orbiting Carbon Observatory and Glory, which failed on launch in the past two years. Earth-observation programmes will fail to provide the data continuity required for climate science unless they are more adequately managed and supported, Kevin Trenberth, a senior researcher at the US National Center for Atmospheric Sciences in Boulder, Colorado, told the World Climate Research Programme conference in Denver, Colorado, this week. "We cannot manage what we can't measure," he says. Time gap The US Earth Observing System run by NASA comprises polar-orbiting and low-inclination satellites that make long-term global observations of the land surface, biosphere, atmosphere and oceans. The polar-orbiting satellites Terra, Aqua and Aura will probably shut down in 2015, and the next generation of polar-orbiting satellites is unlikely to be fully deployed by then. The lack of temporal overlap will have serious consequences for the homogeneity and continuity of climate data sets, Trenberth and eight co-authors state in a white paper submitted to the meeting. On 28 October, NASA is set to launch the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System Preparatory Project, a prototype of the new generation of satellites, Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), that will be the backbone of US space-based weather and climate observations. But owing to budgetary constraints, the first fully operational satellite of the JPSS, originally planned for launch in 2015, has been delayed until later in the decade. As observing systems change from one generation of satellites to the next, adequate overlap between missions is required for testing, adjusting and calibrating new sensors. The possible two-year gap in coverage due to the delayed launch of the JPSS, says Trenberth, will cause critical discontinuity in observational records vital for monitoring global climate trends.

**B. At a minimum, uncertainty creates data continuity problems – revitalization of Earth Observation satellites is necessary to get the most out of collected data. No current satellites can replace specific system failures**

Williamson 09 (Mark Williamson, space technology consultant, “Knowledge, ,Data and Global Sustainability: The Role of Space-Based Assets,” THREATS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY – ANSWERS BY SPACE, ed. K.Schrog, C.Mathieu & A.Lukaszczyk, 2009, p. 56-57.)
Although this is also the case for the commercially operated imaging satellites it is not so most government Earth imaging, meteorology and science satellites. They are not insured for their in-orbit lives and are therefore not renewable assets should they fail. This has led to a data continuity problem, which has become even more critical in the light of the current interest in long-term climate data. If a given satellite, or payload sensor on that satellite, fails, there is rarely a financial mechanism available to replace that resource that resource, because political funding is not long-term. A case in point is the Landsat Earth observation programme which, despite its success, has been starved off funds to the point where the remaining Landsat spacecraft are either past their design lives (and therefore prone to immediate failure) or hve suffered sensor anomalies which degrade their data A related problem is that payloads are highly specified and other sensors in orbit are incapable of substituting for them. Data users in the scientific community have become used to receiving this specific data and, since their theories and careers are often based on such data, a failure can affect much more than a satellite. Despite this, there is no long-term plan for data continuity.







**Thus my partner and I present the following plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space-based Earth observation capabilities.**

===Advantage 1: Wheat=== 

**A. We are on the precipice of a catastrophic global food crisis -- even the US is not immune**

EFS 11 (“Ug99: Will Wheat Rust Cause A Catastrophic Global Famine?”, Emergency Food Supply, http://theemergencyfoodsupply.com/archives/ug99-will-wheat-rust-cause-a-catastrophic-global-famine)
Will a wheat rust that the vast majority of Americans have never heard of lead to a catastrophic global famine? Agricultural scientists now fear that Ug99, a devastating wheat fungus also known as stem rust, could wipe out over 80 percent of the world's wheat crop as it spreads from Africa all across the globe. In a world already on the verge of a massive food crisis, this is incredibly frightening news. Most Americans have never even heard of Ug99, but the truth is that it is considered by experts to be the most serious threat to the world food supply. Ug99 is known as "stem rust" because it produces reddish-brown flakes on wheat stalks. It is incredibly deadly and there is no known cure for it. The Los Angeles Times recently reported that The International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center in Mexico now estimates that 19 percent of the world's wheat crop, primarily located in Asia and Africa, is in imminent danger from Ug99. If Ug99 were to start spreading in the United States, it is estimated that approximately 10 billion dollars worth of wheat would be destroyed. 10 billion dollars. That is a whole lot of bread. The L.A. Times also reports that Rick Ward, the coordinator of the Durable Rust Resistance in Wheat project at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., says that "A significant humanitarian crisis is inevitable." Did you catch that? He said inevitable. When scientists start using the word "inevitable" it is time for all of us to sit up and take notice. Apparently Ug99 has already jumped the Red Sea and has affected areas as far as Iran already. Wheat Experts say that wheat rust is poised to enter northern India and Pakistan, and that the wind will inevitably carry it to Russia, China and even North America. If it doesn't arrive in North America some other way first. Jim Peterson, a professor of wheat breeding and genetics at Oregon State University in Corvallis, does not sound optimistic about this crisis: "It's a time bomb," he told the L.A. Times. "It moves in the air, it can move in clothing on an airplane. We know it's going to be here. It's a matter of how long it's going to take." Are you all starting to get the picture? This is very, very serious. If the worst case scenario comes to fruition, and 80 percent of the world's wheat crop is destroyed, what will you and your family do? Do you have an emergency food supply? As if things were not bad enough, wheat experts say that Ug99 is becoming even more virulent as it spreads. This quote from the recent L.A. Times article on Ug99 is very frightening..... Scientists discovered a Ug99 variant in 2006 that can defeat Sr24, a resistance gene that protects Great Plains wheat. Last year, another variant was found with immunity to Sr36, a gene that safeguards Eastern wheat. It is not like the world has enough wheat right now anyway. The truth is that exploding populations, record droughts across the globe and dwindling strategic food reserves in the major industrialized nations have brought the world to the very edge of a catastrophic global food crisis. World food reserves currently sit at a fifty year low, and many experts are warning that we are now facing a "perfect storm" that will cause a dramatic spike in world hunger. Even the major industrialized nations are not immune. With U.S. wheat reserves now at a record low, USDA Undersecretary Mark Keenum had to admit last year: "Our cupboard is bare." Things have become so serious that even Time magazine has now declared that we are in "a global food crisis".

**B. Remote sensing satellites predict wheat loss -- only way to mitigate widespread hunger**

Budde et al 10 (Michael Budde, James Rowland, and Chris Funk, US Geological Survey Earth Resources Observation and Science (EROS) Center, Sioux Falls, SD. ASRC Research & Technology Solutions (ARTS), contractor to the US Geological Survey EROS Center. Work performed under USGS contract 08HQCN0007, Sioux Falls, SD, “Agriculture and Food Availability – Remote Sensing of Agriculture for Food Security Monitoring in the Developing World”, February 8th, http://www.earthzine.org/2010/02/08/agriculture-and-food-availabilityremote-sensing-of-agriculture-for-food-security-monitoring-in-the-developing-world/)
In Zimbabwe and Afghanistan, years of political upheaval and intermittent drought have contributed to the prospects of widespread hunger. In Zimbabwe, during February of 2009, an estimated 7 million people faced serious food shortages, many surviving on just one meal per day. Zimbabwe’s once-thriving agricultural production had fallen significantly and changes in the agricultural system made it difficult to get good estimates of crop production. In Afghanistan, the 2008 spring snow pack appeared to be well below normal. This could mean a reduced wheat harvest due to inadequate water for irrigation, but crop production reports would not be available until many months later. In the meantime, many people could endure serious hardship. Clear and early answers were needed by organizations poised to send famine-mitigating food aid. Remotely sensed satellite observations were able to provide non-political, objective and timely production estimates. In both cases, we were able to use historically observed relationships between NDVI and crop production/yield to develop MODIS-based crop production/yield estimates, well before conventional statistics were available. In Afghanistan, this meant that anecdotal reports of widespread crop failure could be substantiated. In Zimbabwe, remote sensing showed improved crop production over the previous year, with the number of food insecure people likely falling to a relatively low number, compared to recent history. In both cases, strategic decisions for food aid programs could be made in a timely fashion, helping to keep costs down and increase their effectiveness in staving off widespread hunger.

**C. Only federal action guarantees sustained investment -- critical to solve the advantage**

Sohl et al 11 (Mahmoud, director general of the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA). Shivaji Pandey is director of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization. Thomas Lumpkin is director general of the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT). Ronnie Coffman is vice-chair of the Borlaug Global Rust Initiative (BGRI), “Fight against wheat rust needs sustained investment”, May 5th, http://www.scidev.net/en/opinions/fight-against-wheat-rust-needs-sustained-investment-1.html)

Can wheat rust be eradicated? Norman Borlaug, the father of wheat improvement in the 1960s, noted that "rust never sleeps". Rust strains will continue to mutate and overcome crop resistance. Rather than reacting to food crises, sustained investment is needed to support agricultural research and preparedness to help countries better manage rust problems in the long term. Donor governments, development agencies and the international research community must increase their attention and support to low-income countries striving to develop strategies to prevent wheat rust. And those countries need robust food-security strategies that include sharing information on crop breeding across regions. Increased surveillance — both national and regional — involves testing and tracking rust types using geospatial tools, monitoring the wheat varieties they attack and determining which are resistant. Susceptible varieties can then be replaced by resistant ones. In Iran, for example, a monitoring network of agricultural extension specialists and researchers gathered reports of new strains that prompted the country's plant protection authorities to stock up on fungicide, and establish a nursery testing rust samples sent in by wheat breeders. This helped scientists identify 10 varieties resistant to a strain of stripe rust over the past three years, which were then prepared and distributed to farmers.

**D. The US is key -- shapes international ag policy**

WFP 10 [World Food Prize, “Chicago Council Wins Grant to Expand Global Agricultural Development Initiative,” Dec 23, 2010, pg. http://www.worldfoodprize.org/index.cfm?nodeID=24667&action=display&newsID=11003]

A number of policy developments indicate that the United States is beginning to recognize the transformational role agriculture can play in addressing the challenge of global poverty: President Obama called for a doubling of U.S. support for agricultural development in 2010 at the G-20 summit in April 2009; the U.S. Administration rolled out its initial strategic and implementation thinking on the Feed the Future initiative in May 2010; and both the House and Senate have considered legislation to enhance support for agricultural development. However, to ensure these advances are realized in a way that can have a tangible impact on global poverty during a time of economic uncertainty, further policy innovation, sustained political and financial support, and accountability of U.S. policy for agricultural development and food security is needed. “U.S. leadership is key to ensuring agricultural development receives the long-term policy attention and resources needed to reduce global poverty and hunger over the long term,” said Glickman. “The next three years will be critical in determining whether the new U.S. impetus for leadership in agricultural development and food security will become a prominent, effective, and lasting feature of U.S. development policy.” Over the last two years, food security has risen to the top of the agenda of global issues that need urgent national and international attention. Prompted by the food price crisis of 2008, the increase in the number of people living in abject poverty rose to over 1 billion in 2009, and the need to nearly double food production to meet global demand by 2050, world leaders are giving new attention to agricultural development in poor regions and the sufficiency and sustainability of the world’s food supply. “Agricultural development is the essential first step to alleviate extreme poverty and hunger in developing nations,” said Bertini. “We have the knowledge, tools and resources necessary to solve global hunger, but what is needed is sustained momentum in U.S. policy toward supporting agriculture as a poverty alleviation tool.”


**Impact Scenario 1:**

**1. Wheat shortage causes famine and geopolitical instability**

Cornell 8 (“Stem Rust: Historical Perspective”, Cornell University Durable Rust Resistance in Wheat Project, http://wheatrust.cornell.edu/about/backgroundandrationale.cfm)
Wheat represents approximately 30% of the world’s production of grain crops. The FAO predicts that 598 million tons of wheat will be harvested this year on 220 million hectares of land. Nearly half of that production will be harvested in developing countries. On average, each person in the world consumes 68.2 kilograms of wheat each year. That equates to about 630 calories per day per person, or 1/2 to 1/3 of the minimal energy requirements of most adults. In West Asia, North Africa, and Central Asia, wheat provides more calories than all other grains combined. The Middle East and North African countries consume over 150% of their own wheat production and are thus heavily dependent on imports. Once Ug99 and its derivatives have established themselves in North Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia, annual losses could reach US$ 3 billion in any given year. The effects on rural livelihoods and geopolitical stability would be incalculable. Large populations of poor wheat-growing farming families would be seriously affected and few would have alternative livelihoods. The impact on landless laborers dependent on agricultural jobs would also be severe, and one could anticipate an increase in the rural-urban migration of landless laborers and small farmers. Moreover, such large production losses would have significant implications for rural and national economic growth rates in seriously affected countries and could even affect global wheat markets.

**2. That escalates to nuclear war**

Wenyu et al., 06 (Xie, Prof. Phil. @ Shandong U., Zhihe Wang, Prof. @ School of Phil. And Soc. Sci. @ Beijing Normal U., and George E. Derfer, School of Philosophy and the Social Sciences, and George E. Derfer, Prof. Emeritus @ Cal. Poly. Pomona, “Whitehead and China: Relevance and Relationship”, p. 28, Google Print)
The threats posed by war, imperialism, nuclear weapons, and terrorism are, furthermore, not the only threats to the continued existence of civilization for which global anarchy is responsible. There are also the interconnected threats of pollution, overpopulation, and resource shortages. Although there has been serious discussion of the population explosion since the 1960s, very little has been done tos top it. China is one of the few countries to have introduced effective measures to bring a halt to runaway population growth. In most of the rest of the world, continuation of the population explosion means that already struggling societies will, in the coming decades, be trying to meet the needs of twice as many people with the same resources, or even fewer. Resource wars, meaning wars in which natural resources are the primary cause, will surely become increasingly prevalent. As absolute shortages in food, water, and oil emerge, furthermore, the relative shortages, produced by the world’s highly inequitable allocation of resources, will become even more intolerable to disadvantaged groups, providing additional motivation for terrorism aagainst rich countries. Global apartheid combined with growing resource shortages combined with hatred of imperialism combined with nuclearism makes for a very volatile mixture.

**Impact Scenario 2:**

**1. Specifically, declining wheat yields in Afghanistan force an increase in opium production**

Arnoldy 11 (Ben, New Delhi Bureau Chief at the Christian Science Monitor, “Afghanistan poppy production could skyrocket due to spike in prices, drought”, Christian Science Monitor, January 21, http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2011/0121/Afghanistan-poppy-production-could-skyrocket-due-to-spike-in-prices-drought)
Monitors are warning that 2011 may see a surge in Afghanistan’s poppy production as high prices at the farm gate, coupled with a crippling drought that has ravaged wheat production, provide powerful incentives for farmers to grow the outlawed crop. While poppy provides Afghan farmers some security net from war and drought, money from the trafficking helps finance insurgents and fuel corruption inside the government. The colorful plant's sap is used to make narcotics such as opium and heroin. Afghan farmers planted the same amount of poppy in 2010 as the previous year, but the United Nations raised concerns this week that rising poppy prices will push up production in 2011. The farm-gate price of dry opium jumped 164 percent in 2010. “We cannot continue business as usual,” Yuri Fedotov, executive director of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), said in a statement accompanying the Jan. 20 release of his office’s 2010 opium survey. “If this cash bonanza lasts, it could effectively reverse the hard-won gains of recent years.” Prices spike, but only in Afghanistan Cultivation of poppy has fallen by a third since the highpoint of 2007, driven partly by declining prices from 2005 to 2009. Those years also saw international spending to boost licit agriculture and markets, changes in the security landscape, as well as a temporary – and controversial – spike in eradication efforts in 2006 and 2007. As such, Afghanistan's share of the global opium supply dropped to 80 percent in 2009 from 90 percent in 2008. The falling prices ended last year, as traffickers paid more at the farm gate for poppy due to a blight that sent yields tumbling by 49 percent. Yet the sale price of opiates on the other side of Afghanistan’s borders did not jump nearly as much. “This could indicate that traffickers’ revenues are down,” the UNODC report found. Not everyone seems to agree. Afghanistan’s deputy counter-narcotics minister, Mohammad Ebrahim Azhar, has claimed that insurgents earned $602 million in 2010 from the trade, up from $430 the previous year, according to Pajhwok Afghan News. Nobody really knows how much the insurgents make on the drug trade, says Pierre-Arnaud Chouvy, author of “Opium: Uncovering the politics of the poppy,” from Harvard University Press. A 2009 Congressional report pointed out miscalculations in UNODC figures, with US intelligence estimating poppy revenues at $70 million a year. It is plausible that farm-gate prices – but not cross-border prices – rose rapidly. “It takes time for the price of opiates outside Afghanistan to increase, and the farm-gate price hike is never completely passed at the wholesale or retail market,” says Mr. Chouvy. Sales from stockpiles could also have curbed price rises, he adds. Ongoing drought is incentive to plant poppy But if the price differential is partly a time lag, this year could be a feast for traffickers, especially if farmers rush to grow poppy this winter, bringing the farm-gate prices down with rising supply. And farmers may do just that. First, the currently high farm-gate prices make the crop more attractive. Drought conditions are an added incentive, warns Mr. Azhar. “When farmers buy water or when they bring water from somewhere else, it is very expensive for them and they do not make good profit to grow legitimate crops,” he said, according to a Noor TV translation from BBC Monitoring. Poppy not only fetches higher prices, but requires less water than many crops. “Opium production is largely resorted to as a way to cope with food insecurity,” says Chouvy. Poor wheat yields spur greater poppy cultivation in the winter, which is what may be happening now. “Less wheat means more opium both because opium is needed to buy wheat and because the price of wheat rises and requires more opium to pay for it.”

**2. That guarantees instability**

Jones 07 (General James, US EU Command in Marines, CQ Congressional Testimony, 3-1, L/N)
Afghanistan's most serious problem is not the Taliban, it is the alarming growth of its economic dependence on narcotics. It now permeates nearly every aspect of Afghan society and underwrites much of the violence we are fighting throughout the nation. It is Afghanistan's true "Achilles' Heal". Afghanistan does not need to become a narco-state, but it is unfortunately well on its way to becoming one. The parts of Afghanistan which are currently producing the largest poppy crops are not those that are traditionally known for the growth of such product. The need to find the right means to ensure that farmers can economically grow and sell legal produce, in addition to developing an overarching and understandable way ahead in the overall right against narcotics, is vital. Ninety percent of Afghan narcotics are sold in the European markets. The money returns to Afghanistan and fuels the IEDs and terrorism that kills and wounds our soldiers. In my opinion this is the number one problem affecting the recovery of the nation. The lead nation for this effort is the United Kingdom. and it is failing in developing and implementing a cohesive strategy to even begin to resolve a problem that will result in international failure in Afghanistan if not addressed.

**3. Instability goes global causing nuclear war**

Morgan 07 [Stephen, Former Member of the British Labour Party Executive committee, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]
However events may prove him sorely wrong. Indeed, his policy could completely backfire upon him. As the war intensifies, he has no guarantees that the current autonomy may yet burgeon into a separatist movement. Appetite comes with eating, as they say. Moreover, should the Taliban fail to re-conquer al of Afghanistan, as looks likely, but captures at least half of the country, then a Taliban Pashtun caliphate could be established which would act as a magnet to separatist Pashtuns in Pakistan. Then, the likely break up of Afghanistan along ethnic lines, could, indeed, lead the way to the break up of Pakistan, as well. Strong centrifugal forces have always bedevilled the stability and unity of Pakistan, and, in the context of the new world situation, the country could be faced with civil wars and popular fundamentalist uprisings, probably including a military-fundamentalist coup d’état. Fundamentalism is deeply rooted in Pakistan society. The fact that in the year following 9/11, the most popular name given to male children born that year was “Osama” (not a Pakistani name) is a small indication of the mood. Given the weakening base of the traditional, secular opposition parties, conditions would be ripe for a coup d’état by the fundamentalist wing of the Army and ISI, leaning on the radicalised masses to take power. Some form of radical, military Islamic regime, where legal powers would shift to Islamic courts and forms of shira law would be likely. Although, even then, this might not take place outside of a protracted crisis of upheaval and civil war conditions, mixing fundamentalist movements with nationalist uprisings and sectarian violence between the Sunni and minority Shia populations. The nightmare that is now Iraq would take on gothic proportions across the continent. The prophesy of an arc of civil war over Lebanon, Palestine and Iraq would spread to south Asia, stretching from Pakistan to Palestine, through Afghanistan into Iraq and up to the Mediterranean coast. Undoubtedly, this would also spill over into India both with regards to the Muslim community and Kashmir. Border clashes, terrorist attacks, sectarian pogroms and insurgency would break out. A new war, and possibly nuclear war, between Pakistan and India could no be ruled out. Atomic Al Qaeda Should Pakistan break down completely, a Taliban-style government with strong Al Qaeda influence is a real possibility. Such deep chaos would, of course, open a “Pandora's box” for the region and the world. With the possibility of unstable clerical and military fundamentalist elements being in control of the Pakistan nuclear arsenal, not only their use against India, but Israel becomes a possibility, as well as the acquisition of nuclear and other deadly weapons secrets by Al Qaeda. Invading Pakistan would not be an option for America. Therefore a nuclear war would now again become a real strategic possibility. This would bring a shift in the tectonic plates of global relations. It could usher in a new Cold War with China and Russia pitted against the US.


===Advantage 2: Cooperation=== 
**A. Right now Europe and the U.S. are cooperating on a litany of global problems through renewed focus on scientific cooperation. Continued cooperation is necessary to solve disease spread, climate change, and ocean degradation.**

Leshner and Turekian, 9 (*the chief executive officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and executive publisher of the journal Science AND the chief international officer at AAAS and director of its Center for Science Diplomacy [February 2009, Alan I. Leshner and Vaughan Turekian, Editorial, “Europe and the United States: A Crucial Moment for Scienc Cooperation,”http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/jrc/downloads/jrc_newsletter_2009_02.pdf])
Today, however, a new moment of challenge and opportunity awaits the transatlantic alliance. Confronted by financial crisis, unstable energy supplies, an aging population and ominous climate change, a consensus has emerged in both Europe and the United States that we must answer these urgent challenges with substantially increased innovation. And the election of President Barack Obama, with his clear belief in the importance of science to virtually all societal issues, is a clear signal that the United States is poised to bring renewed commitment to the global scientific enterprise. “We will restore science to its rightful place, and wield technology’s wonders to raise health care’s quality and lower its cost,” Obama said in his inaugural address. “We will harness the sun and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars and run our factories. And we will transform our schools and colleges and universi¬ties to meet the demands of a new age. All this we can do. All this we will do.” These are welcome words, and they are sure to galvanise new efforts on both sides of the Atlantic. This is, therefore, a crucial moment for the future of the European¬U.S. science and engineering relationship. By themselves, excitement and energy will not address key questions; to chart the way forward, there must be deliberations at high levels of our governments and our research institutions. That is precisely why the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre hosted a joint brainstorming at the recent AAAS Annual Meeting in Chicago (12¬16 February). An immediate outcome planned for next October will be the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding and the hosting of a high¬ level AAAS¬JRC science summit to mark the 50 th anniversary of the Joint Research Centre’s Ispra site in Italy. Among the many questions for discussion will be how can Europe and the United States develop a shared approach to the policy¬making challenges that confront us? How do we allow for both the benefits of creative and economic competition and cohesive, efficient cooperation? As we try to mobilise a large, complex system for action, what are the particular roles of individual scientists and engineers, their labo¬ratories and universities, professional associations and foundations? What role should industry play? Ultimately these discussions between technical and policy experts will provide the connective tissue and critical steps for turning words into action. Science has always been international, of course. Hundreds of years ago, Europe’s rise was shaped by Persian and Arab understanding of mathematics, astronomy and medicine and by Chinese inventions such as printing, the compass and gunpowder. Scientific and technological progress in the early days of America would have been stunted without Europe’s academic excellence and industrial techniques. During the Cold War, bilateral science and technology agreements were crucial in thawing tensions with the Soviet Union and China. Throughout the 20 th century, the transatlantic part¬nership has helped produce historic progress in fields ranging from medicine and genetics to physics, communication and space exploration. Today our students move freely between universities and labs in the United States and Europe; from telescopes high atop Mauna Kea in Hawaii to developing the Large Hadron Collider beneath the Franco¬Swiss countryside, our scientists and engineers are working together on important projects. However, as we look to the future, with new technologies making collaboration easier and more productive, a more comprehensive approach to cooperation has become imperative. The intertwined issues of energy and climate change are the most obvious challenge, and the most urgent. They also may be the most obvious examples where international cooperation is a must between various groups in the United States, the Joint Research Centre and other European and world actors. Patterns of energy consumption by industrialised nations are causing global geopolitical instability and profound damage to the Earth’s climate. Finding and implement¬ing solutions will require the involvement of scientists from many disciplines, as well as policymakers at every level of governments and in every nation. Many people believe that the United States and Europe must be at the hub of action, if only because they historically have been the biggest sources of greenhouse gases. They must find “an agreed formula” on how to address climate change, Germany’s ambassador to the United States, Klaus Scharioth, said during a recent meeting of European ambassadors at the University of California¬Los Angeles. “If we don’t do it, we have not the slightest chance of convincing the Chinese and the Indians and the Brazilians or anybody else.” Ambassador Scharioth’s point applies as well to the way we must approach other global challenges: the health of our oceans and fisheries, the spread and control of infectious disease, improved food production, the development of clean water supplies, and efforts to control the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. While it may be correct that Europe and the United States need to lead these efforts, our research efforts must be opened up as much as possible to all interested nations. That is not just a diplomatic gesture; our researchers stand to gain new insights and research opportunities by working with colleagues in every nation. Nations that just a decade ago were considered ‘Third World’ are today making signifi¬cant investments in scientific research, development and education, and are studying exactly the same problems facing more developed countries, even if the details of the problems facing them are different. Individual scientists and their institutions, both in Europe and the United States, are already involved in a range of cooperative ventures with these nations. But if we make these efforts more systematic, the trans¬atlantic nations can help anchor a global network of scientific knowledge. There is an emerging effort in the United States to use the international character of science to help build trust and cooperation among nations, particularly among those whose governmental relationships have been strained. For example, scholars and scientists in the United States have put ‘science diplomacy’ into practice and recently met with counterparts from North Korea, Iran, and Cuba, among others. Similarly, we need to expand scientific engagement with Russia, China and nations of the Middle East, where coopera¬tion will be crucial if we want to address issues such as climate change, energy and nuclear proliferation on a global scale. Last fall, a group of U.S. elected officials, diplomats, and leaders from science, business and education met in Washington, D.C., to develop strategies for expanded science diplomacy. Like the European ambassadors who met at UCLA, many at that meeting were hopeful that the new Obama Administration will see science diplomacy as a critical tool for solving problems and building global peace and prosperity. These early efforts could begin to reverse the mistrust and hostility that have produced a global stalemate in recent years. As we prepare for the tests ahead, history reminds us that a strong commitment to the Euro¬U.S. partnership will give us a foundation for work that will help solve many of the world’s most pressing problems and improve life for our children, our grand¬ children, and billions of people on every continent.


**B. US commitment to greater earth monitoring is key to science diplomacy and cooperation**

Parthemore and Rogers 8-1-11, Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers, Christine Parthemore is a Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program and Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). “ BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY” Center for a New American Security http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf NEH)
The U.S. government should take three measures to ensure that it continues to receive reliable climate and environmental data: increasing international cooperation and collaborating on space-based earth monitoring, increasing information sharing and interagency cooperation, and finding budget-conscious ways to shrink the gaps in earth monitoring capabilities. Cooperating with key allies and partners will be a vital means of ensuring adequate earth monitoring capabilities in the decades ahead. The U.S. government has increasingly emphasized the importance of leveraging its partners’ space capabilities. The 2010 National Space Strategy, for example, states that “By sharing or exchanging capabilities, data, services, personnel, operations, and technology, we can ensure access to information and services from a more diverse set of systems.”19 In practice, many agencies still view U.S. participation in the multilateral GEOSS as insufficient. As the U.S. government continues to integrate environmental and climate change issues into key strategic planning documents, policymakers are likely to discover that the United States requires unique information tailored to its specific national security and foreign policy priorities that GEOSS does not provide. Space cooperation on earth monitoring can serve a broader range of U.S. scientific, foreign policy and security interests by being more flexible and more robust. Thus, the United States must complement GEOSS with other bilateral initiatives to sustain a steady stream of earth monitoring data. Indeed, given likely budget constraints, leveraging the investments of U.S. allies and partners in their own earth monitoring capabilities and sharing that information will give U.S. scientists and policymakers access to the information they need in the short term, while fostering a long-term opportunity for integrating broader science and technology cooperation into international partnerships. India, for example, recently launched three remote sensing satellites to collect information on water, agriculture and climate trends; it plans to launch two more earth monitoring satellites, in 2012 and 2013, to measure carbon emissions and to monitor forest cover.20 Germany’s TerraSAR-X Satellites, designed to provide high resolution radar imagery that can monitor changes to the earth’s surface – for example, changes in land use or land cover – were used after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan. The United States has existing mechanisms to support bilateral cooperation in this area. The Japan-U.S. Science and Technology Cooperation Agreement, for example, already promotes space collaboration between the United States and Japan, including on remote sensing projects.21 The United States and India have also signed agreements to foster cooperation in space, science, technology and innovation, including “enhancing the understanding of Earth and Ocean dynamics and addressing the challenges of climate change.”22 Diplomats and other foreign policy practitioners need to be aware that these mechanisms exist and that they can be used to expand environmental and climate monitoring

. Doing so would be cost-effective and ensure that the United States has access to the steady stream of data that policymakers need to make informed decisions. Expanding cooperation on environmental and climate monitoring could also foster other opportunities for integrating science and technology cooperation into international partnerships, such as sharing climate and environmental data not derived from satellites and technical knowledge about emerging energy technologies. Policymakers must continue to improve information sharing and interagency coordination so that all agencies can use existing capabilities and promote efficiency. The Obama administration has instructed OSTP, NASA, DOD and other departments to better coordinate interagency earth monitoring efforts, and this coordination appears to have improved in recent years. Yet even though the administration’s own policy documents emphasize improving interagency coordination on earth observation, our interviews with officials at a range of agencies provided countless examples of areas where interagency cooperation could further be improved. Additionally, as the State Department implements some of the structural changes envisioned in its 2010 Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review, NASA and NOAA should ensure that their international space partnerships are fully coordinated with the appropriate regional and functional State Department bureaus to ensure that they bolster U.S. diplomatic strategies. Consistent Congressional and executive branch support is also necessary. The MEDEA program, for example, was initiated in 1991 as a civilian intelligence venture between the CIA and scientists to declassify and allow access to historical satellite images to better inform scientific projections and climate change analysis. However, funding for this program was reduced in subsequent years and was halted altogether during the George W. Bush administration. In 2009, the CIA launched the Center on Climate Change and National Security, reviving the MEDEA program, in part due to renewed interest by the agency and other parts of the U.S. government in studying the national security implications of climate change. Since the center was launched, however, several members of Congress have again threatened to cut funding for this work, charging that assessing climate change is beyond the intelligence agency’s purpose.23 In order to reap the full benefits of past investments, policymakers should ensure that interagency coordination and information sharing are not intermittent, as this program’s work has been. Continuous support and interagency cooperation on environmental and climate change data sharing and planning provide obvious opportunities and advantages in addressing the challenges that inevitably will affect the spectrum of U.S. government resources and agencies.

**C. Ramping up Earth monitoring catalyzes effective international cooperation -- provides robust data that’s critical to policy changes.**

Lewis et al., 10 James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June,http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)
There has been speculation for more than a century on how human activity may change the Earth’s climate. The era of speculation is over. If there has been any surprise, it has been that the pace and scope of change caused by “anthropogenic influences” have proven to be more rapid than expected. While skeptics remain, most observers now agree that human activities (particularly the burning of carbon fuels and deforestation) contribute to and accelerate climate change. There is now broad consensus that national interests are threatened by climate change. Concern over the effect of climate change led to a discussion over its implications for national security and international stability.1 Many studies agreed that climate change creates new risk for national and economic security, as a result of dislocation of populations or a scarcity of resources such as water or food. To the extent climate change is a national security problem, it is a problem that is not amenable to solution by military tools. Instead, progress will depend on diplomacy, science, and technology. Climate change is a global problem. A global response is necessary, using existing or new vehicles for cooperation. While there is broad consensus that national interests are threatened by climate change, turning this consensus into meaningful action will be difficult. Negotiation takes place in the context of competing national economic interests. The countries most vulnerable to the effects of a changing climate, mostly developing countries, do not have the capacity to cope with these changes and look to developed countries for assistance. Our understanding of how to mitigate and adapt to climate change is still at an early stage. Remedies have been identified, but their effectiveness has yet to be measured. Finally, the data necessary for assessing the effect of these efforts and the mechanisms for sharing that data are partial and incomplete, designed to inform science and not policy. There is still a great deal we do not know about the local and global effects of climate change. Several recent studies identified gaps and weaknesses in climate science activities. One of the main conclusions of this research is that climate science to date has been geared toward fulfilling needs within the scientific community rather than meeting the needs of decisionmakers who must determine how to adapt and respond to a changing climate. Managing climate-related risks requires accurate, robust, sustained, and wide-ranging climate information. Sustained and continuous observations are needed for researchers to evaluate and test climate model accuracy and to identify causes of particular elements of climate change. The international community must address four key uncertainties and gaps in climate research if we are to significantly improve our confidence in climate change prediction and understanding: 2 ■■ Incomplete global data sets for analysis and modeling uncertainties restrict the types of studies that can be performed. ■■ The lack of observational data restricts the types of climate change that can be analyzed. ■■ Multi-decadal changes in daily temperature range are not well understood. ■■ Confidence in attributing some climate change phenomena to anthropogenic (man-made) influences is limited. These gaps and uncertainties are directly related to the availability of adequate Earth observations. Earth observation provides the evidence necessary for informed decisionmaking. It supports the monitoring and verification of emission reductions. A comprehensive and global perspective in climate monitoring is needed to understand the interconnectivity of Earth’s terrestrial, atmospheric, and oceanic systems. Understanding the climate problem requires accurate, robust, sustained, and wide-ranging climate information. Masses of data are already collected for atmospheric, oceanic, and terrestrial phenomena.3 These data are shared among the research community through various international data centers, but the informational needs of policymakers are different from those of researchers. The primary requirements for policy are timely and consistent access to data for assessing actions and reducing uncertainty. The data (and improved models to use that data) that policymakers will need fall into several categories: ■■ Trend data that track the shrinking of the polar ice caps or forests, the presence of gases in the upper environment, or changes in ocean temperature or currents. Depending on the adequacy of predictive models, these data would allow assessment of the rate and nature of climate change. ■■ Regional data that enable the identification of specific regional problems to allow for tailored solutions or aid programs. The need for cross border collection complicates the gathering of these regional data. ■■ Effects assessment data that would reduce uncertainty and allow policymakers to determine whether mitigation or adaptation policies implemented to address climate change are having any effect. ■■ Compliance data to monitor progress in support of an agreement. One of the lessons of the recent climate negotiations in Copenhagen is that ensuring compliance with any future agreement to limit emissions will be politically sensitive for some countries and beyond the technical or financial means of many others. ■■ Planning data that provide consistent and timely information that insurance companies, farmers, urban planners, major corporations, and others will need to reduce uncertainty. These data would allow local planners, governments, businesses, and private sector consumers like the insurance industry to assess the likelihood of certain impacts and conduct cost-benefit analysis of different response options (see appendix A for a more detailed discussion of such options). On the international level, this type of regional information is necessary for determining which areas of the world will be most affected and should receive a higher priority for aid, financing, technology, and capacity building. Monitoring and verifying of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is of particular importance. Reaching an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is complicated because of the inherent scientific uncertainty and incomplete understanding of the carbon cycle and warming of the Earth. Recent scientific advancements, however, allow us to conclude with a high level of certainty that climate change and global warming are unequivocal and that the primary driver is carbon dioxide produced by burning of fossil fuels and, to a lesser degree, by deforestation; Currently, identifying trends in GHG emissions relies on weaving together data collected from existing ground-based networks and space-borne instruments, using a process called “trace-transport inversion.” As the United States and other nations consider whether to adopt cap-and-trade policies, they will need a coordinated and efficient system for collecting and distributing data to support carbon markets and to promote transparency and accountability through accessible public information. Better climate information has helped us move beyond the question of whether action to manage climate change is warranted to what types of actions and polices are needed. Information is key to an effective approach to climate change. At a national and international level, many countries are preoccupied with how to ensure that decisionmakers and user communities have access to the types of information that will make the climate efforts successful. This includes coordinated systems for Earth observation, enhanced modeling capabilities, an organizational structure that allows science to be more responsive to relevant policy questions or functions, and places where information can be gathered and made accessible to broad-based user communities. Meeting the needs of climate policy requires a transformation in how climate research is incorporated into public policymaking.4

**D. Disease spread causes extinction**

Yu, 9 (Victoria Yu, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” May 22, 2009,http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)
A pandemic will kill off all humans. In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim to viruses. Perhaps the best-known case was the bubonic plague that killed up to one third of the European population in the mid-14th century (7). While vaccines have been developed for the plague and some other infectious diseases, new viral strains are constantly emerging — a process that maintains the possibility of a pandemic-facilitated human extinction. Some surveyed students mentioned AIDS as a potential pandemic-causing virus. It is true that scientists have been unable thus far to find a sustainable cure for AIDS, mainly due to HIV’s rapid and constant evolution. Specifically, two factors account for the virus’s abnormally high mutation rate: 1. HIV’s use of reverse transcriptase, which does not have a proof-reading mechanism, and 2. the lack of an error-correction mechanism in HIV DNA polymerase (8). Luckily, though, there are certain characteristics of HIV that make it a poor candidate for a large-scale global infection: HIV can lie dormant in the human body for years without manifesting itself, and AIDS itself does not kill directly, but rather through the weakening of the immune system. However, for more easily transmitted viruses such as influenza, the evolution of new strains could prove far more consequential. The simultaneous occurrence of antigenic drift (point mutations that lead to new strains) and antigenic shift (the inter-species transfer of disease) in the influenza virus could produce a new version of influenza for which scientists may not immediately find a cure. Since influenza can spread quickly, this lag time could potentially lead to a “global influenza pandemic,” according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (9). The most recent scare of this variety came in 1918 when bird flu managed to kill over 50 million people around the world in what is sometimes referred to as the Spanish flu pandemic. Perhaps even more frightening is the fact that only 25 mutations were required to convert the original viral strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).

**E. And prefer our scenarios – the probability of a global problem occurring which requires science diplomacy is more likely than their one shot disad**

Yudkowsky, 6 (Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence—a non–profit research institute dedicated to increasing the likelihood of, and decreasing the time to, a maximally beneficial singularity, one of the world’s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment Of Global Risks,” Draft of a chapter in Global Catastrophic Risks, edited by Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, August 31st, 2006, Available Online at http://singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf, Accessed 11-11-2010)
According to probability theory, adding additional detail onto a story must render the story less probable. It is less probable that Linda is a feminist bank teller than that she is a bank teller, since all feminist bank tellers are necessarily bank tellers. Yet human psychology seems to follow the rule that adding an additional detail can make the story more plausible. People might pay more for international diplomacy intended to prevent nanotechnological warfare by China, than for an engineering project to defend against nanotechnological attack from any source. The second threat scenario is less vivid and alarming, but the defense is more useful because it is more vague. More valuable still would be strategies which make humanity harder to extinguish without being specific to nanotechnologic threats - such as colonizing space, or see Yudkowsky (this volume) on AI. Security expert Bruce Schneier observed (both before and after the 2005 hurricane in New Orleans) that the U.S. government was guarding specific domestic targets against "movie-plot scenarios" of terrorism, at the cost of taking away resources from emergency-response capabilities that could respond to any disaster. (Schneier 2005.) Overly detailed reassurances can also create false perceptions of safety: "X is not an existential risk and you don't need to worry about it, because A, B, C, D, and E"; where the failure of any one of propositions A, B, C, D, or E potentially extinguishes the human species. "We don't need to worry about nanotechnologic war, because a UN commission will initially develop the technology and prevent its proliferation until such time as an active shield is developed, capable of defending against all accidental and malicious outbreaks that contemporary nanotechnology is capable of producing, and this condition will persist indefinitely." Vivid, specific scenarios can inflate our probability estimates of security, as well as misdirecting defensive investments into needlessly narrow or implausibly detailed risk scenarios.

**F. And science diplomacy prevents all their impacts from escalating**

The Royal Society, 10 (a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”)

Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues may sometimes be the only way to initiate a wider political dialogue. The soft power of science, and the universality of scientific methods, can be used to diffuse tensions even in ‘hard power’ scenarios, such as those relating to traditional military threats. For example, technologies to verify nuclear arms control agreements were a rare focus of joint working between the US and USSR during the Cold War. Lessons from the Cold War are once again highly pertinent. In the run-up to the May 2010 Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), nuclear disarmament is firmly back on the international agenda. However, the timescale for disarmament is long, as illustrated by the history of negotiations over the Chemical Weapons Convention. After the Geneva Convention banned the use of chemical weapons in 1925, negotiations for a treaty banning their production and stockpiling did not start until the 1980s, and the convention entered into force only in 1997. Even now, stockpiles of chemical weapons in the US and Russia have yet to be destroyed. So focusing in 2010 on the challenges of the final stages of a nuclear disarmament process may be premature. A more practical next step could be to establish the scientific requirements for the verification regime necessary to support future stages of negotiation (Pregenzer 2008). In 2008, the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs suggested that a high-level Intergovernmental Panel on Nuclear Disarmament could be established (based on the model of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). This panel could begin by identifying the scientific and technical aspects of disarmament, and then set out a research agenda necessary to achieve them. International cooperation would be essential, both between nuclear and non-nuclear weapon states, as all would need to have confidence that reductions are taking place. The recent initiative between the UK and Norwegian governments on disarmament verification sets a precedent here, and could be expanded to include additional States (VERTIC 2009). However, security threats now extend beyond the military domain, with environmental security attracting particular attention (Abbott C, Rogers P & Sloboda S 2007). Essential resources, such as freshwater, cultivable land, crop yields and fish stocks, are likely to become scarcer in many parts of the world, increasing the risk of competition over resources within and between states (UNEP 2009). This could intensify as previously inaccessible regions, such as the Arctic Ocean, open up as a consequence of climate change and ice melt. Substantial parts of the world also risk being left uninhabitable by rising sea levels, reduced freshwater availability or declining agricultural capacity. Many of the regions that are vulnerable to the impacts of these multiple stresses are already the locus of existing instability and conflict (see Figure 2). 5 Conclusions The main conclusions to emerge from the discussions at the Royal Society/AAAS meeting were as follows: 5.1 The three dimensions of science diplomacy The concept of science diplomacy is gaining increasing currency in the US, UK, Japan and elsewhere. It is still a fluid concept, but can usefully be applied to the role of science, technology and innovation in three related areas: • informing foreign policy objectives with scientific advice (science in diplomacy); • facilitating international science cooperation (diplomacy for science); • using science cooperation to improve international relations between countries (science for diplomacy). 5.2 Science and universal values Scientific values of rationality, transparency and universality are the same the world over. They can help to underpin good governance and build trust between nations. Science provides a non-ideological environment for the participation and free exchange of ideas between people, regardless of cultural, national or religious backgrounds. 5.3 The soft power of science Science is a source of what Joseph Nye terms ‘soft power’ (Nye 2004). The scientific community often works beyond national boundaries on problems of common interest, so is well placed to support emerging forms of diplomacy that require non-traditional alliances of nations, sectors and non-governmental organisations. If aligned with wider foreign policy goals, these channels of scientific exchange can contribute to coalition building and conflict resolution. Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues—such as nuclear nonproliferation—can sometimes provide an effective route to other forms of political dialogue. Similarly the potential of science as an arena for building trust and understanding between countries is gaining traction, particularly in the Middle East and wider Islamic world (see Case study 1). 5.4 Motivations for science diplomacy Science diplomacy seeks to strengthen the symbiosis between the interests and motivations of the scientific and foreign policy communities. For the former, international cooperation is often driven by a desire to access the best people, research facilities or new sources of funding. For the latter, science offers useful networks and channels of communication that can be used to support wider policy goals. Foreign ministries should place greater emphasis on science within their strategies, and draw more extensively on scientific advice in the formation and delivery of policy objectives. In the UK, the appointment of Professor David Clary FRS as the Chief Scientific Adviser at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office creates an important opportunity to integrate science across FCO priorities, and develop stronger linkages with science-related policies in other government departments. Mechanisms to help achieve this could include: • ensuring messages about the value of science are promulgated throughout foreign ministries and embassies, including to all Heads of Mission; • incorporating science policy training into induction courses and training for foreign ministry staff, and specialist diplomatic training for dedicated science officers; • involving more scientists in foreign ministries to advise at senior and strategic levels; • encouraging the recruitment of science graduates as part of the general intake to the foreign service; • encouraging secondments and pairing between diplomats and scientists; • encouraging independent scientific bodies to provide science policy briefings for foreign ministry and embassy staff.

===Advantage 3: Ozone Depletion=== 

**A. Ozone depletion now -- expanding over Southern Hemisphere.**

ERL, 6-13-2011 (Environmental Research Web, “Ozone hole has affected whole Southern Hemisphere,” http://environmentalresearchweb.org/cws/article/news/46255, asb)
Researchers have, for the first time, shown that that the ozone hole located over the South Pole has affected the entire circulation of the Southern Hemisphere all the way to the equator. While previous work has shown that the ozone hole is changing atmospheric flow at high latitudes, a Science paper by researchers from Columbia University, US, demonstrates that the ozone hole is able to influence tropical circulation and increase rainfall at low latitudes in the entire Southern Hemisphere. This is the first time that ozone depletion – an upper atmospheric phenomenon confined to the Polar Regions – has been linked to climate change from the Pole to the equator." The ozone hole is not even mentioned in the summary for policymakers issued with the last IPCC report," says Lorenzo Polvani, co-author of the paper. "We show in this study that it has large and far-reaching impacts. The ozone hole is a big player in the climate system.” Lead author Sarah Kang says: "It's really amazing that the ozone hole, located so high up in the atmosphere over Antarctica, can have an impact all the way to the tropics and affect rainfall there – it's just like a domino effect." The ozone hole is now widely believed to have been the dominant agent of atmospheric circulation changes in the Southern Hemisphere in the last half century. This means, according to Polvani and Kang, that international agreements about mitigating climate change cannot be confined to dealing with carbon alone – ozone needs to be considered, too. "This could be a real game-changer," says Polvani. Over the past decade ozone depletion has largely halted. Scientists now expect it to fully reverse, with the ozone hole closing by mid-century. "While the ozone hole has been considered as a solved problem, we're now finding it has caused a great deal of the climate change that's been observed," says Polvani. Together with colleagues at the Canadian Centre for Climate Modeling and Analysis, Kang and Polvani used two different state-of-the-art climate models to show the ozone hole effect. They first calculated the atmospheric changes in the models produced by creating an ozone hole. They then compared these changes with the ones that have been observed in the last few decades: the close agreement between the models and the observations shows that ozone is likely to have been responsible for the observed changes in the Southern Hemisphere. Kang and Polvani plan next to study extreme precipitation events, which are associated with major floods, mudslides, etc. "We really want to know," says Kang, "if and how the closing of the ozone hole will affect these."

**B. Satellite monitoring is key to compliance and effectiveness**

BOM 11 (No date, Bureau of Meteorology, “Monitoring Stratospheric Ozone,” http://www.bom.gov.au/inside/oeb/atmoswatch/aboutozone.shtml asb)

During the 1960s concerns were raised about the effect of atmospheric nuclear tests on the ozone layer but the first concrete indication that human activities could damage the ozone layer came in 1971 when Johnston pointed out that the large fleet of supersonic aircraft proposed by the US would feed considerable amounts of nitric oxide into or just below the ozone layer. Research had shown that oxides of nitrogen were very efficient destroyers of ozone. In 1974 a landmark paper by Molina and raised the possibility of ozone loss in the stratosphere due to presence of halogen-containing man-made chemicals, including the CFCs; first produced commercially in the early 1930s by DuPont, in the atmosphere. Since ozone absorbs almost all solar radiation below about 300nm and prevents this harmful radiation from arriving at the Earth’s surface, intense international debates followed. Also as a result was the upgrading and expansion of ozone measurements worldwide and the development of more sophisticated satellite-borne instruments for measuring ozone and ozone-related trace gases. The first comprehensive satellite observations were started in 1978 with the Nimbus-7 satellite which carried a Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (TOMS) instrument. International debate led to international treaty (Vienna Convention and its Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer). However it was not until concern following the discovery of the Antarctic ozone hole in 1985, followed by the air-borne measurements over Antarctica by NASA in the Spring of 1987 that a causal link between ozone loss and man-made chemicals was established, that the international treaties became strongly influential.

**C. Ozone depletion wrecks the global environment**

Winchester, 2009 (Winter 2009, N. Brian, Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies, “Emerging Global Environmental Governance,” Vol. 16, No.1, pp7-23, http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2979/GLS.2009.16.1.7, asb)
As the frequency and severity of local ecosystem damage increased, and as it became clear that local events could and did produce regional and even global effects, a fundamental change in global environmental thinking and activism began to develop. With alarming regularity during the latter half of the twentieth century, there were a series of so-called “killer smogs,” from London to Los Angeles, which left thousands sick and dead. A dozen major oil spills worldwide resulted in large-scale environmental degradation.7 Nuclear reactor core meltdowns occurred in the United States and the former Soviet Union, the fallout from which, in the Chernobyl case, resulted in many thousands of deaths. Far more serious, however, is the fact that our collective global actions have created a hole in the earth’s fragile, protective ozone layer.8 Further, we are altering the composition of our atmosphere9 and impacting the hydrologic cycle,10 all with unknown and potentially catastrophic future consequences. The inescapable conclusion is that the scale of human activity has now reached the point where it negatively impacts environmental conditions globally.

**D. The terminal impact is extinction**

Kelly 90 (Patrick D., J.D. from Harvard and currently practices patent law in St. Louis, majored in Environmental Engineering at the University of Texas at Austin, UNH School of Law, “Using Management Techniques to Solve Environmental Problems,” http://law.unh.edu/risk/vol1/summer/kelly.htm, asb)
My comments above are a suggestion that the human population may be decreased by some reasonably small fraction. That seems inevitable, somehow or another, sooner or later. To place that possibility in perspective, consider that a number of scientists have warned that the total extinction of the human race may be approaching unless we solve our environmental problems.21 After reviewing the mass extinctions that occurred at the ends of the Ordovician, Devonian, Permian, Triassic, and Cretaceous periods during the last 600 million years, Douglas Futuyma, the author of the most highly regarded comprehensive text on evolution, concluded, "tropical forests with their richness of species face almost complete annihilation, temperate zone forests and prairies have been eliminated in much of the world, and even marine communities suffer pollution and over-exploitation. In the next several hundred years one of the greatest mass extinctions of all time will come to pass unless we act now to prevent it".22 In the words of Thomas Lovejoy of the Smithsonian Institute, "I am utterly convinced that most of the great environmental struggles will be either won or lost in the 1990's, and that by the next century it will be too late".23 In the words of Lester Brown of the Worldwatch Institute, "We do not have generations, we only have years in which to attempt to turn things around".24 Anyone accustomed to thinking hope is never lost should contemplate what Lovejoy and Brown mean by phrases such as "won or lost," "too late," and "we only have years." They aren't saying that unless we act, we will have to live with nagging annoyances; instead, they are warning us that most of the species that currently exist on this planet are being rapidly driven extinct. Even if the human race is somehow clever enough to survive the catastrophe it caused, there can be little doubt that the number of humans that could be supported by a crippled ecosystem will decrease; the only question is how large that decrease will be. All of the national news magazines and TV networks have run feature stories which talk in complete seriousness about worldwide catastrophe and the possible extinction of humans unless we solve the greenhouse effect and ozone depletion.25 Even magazines such as Reader's Digest, Sports Illustrated, and TV Guide have run feature articles warning of dire catastrophe unless we begin solving those two problems.26 Surely, everyone has heard the warnings by now . . . we just haven't done anything about them.


==SB-BMD 1AC== 
1AC – Inherency (1/2)

**Observation One is Inherency**
**Funding has been cut for Space Based Missile Defense systems.**
Eaglen 2010 (Mackenzie, Research Fellow for National Security Studies at the Allison Centery for Foreign Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation. “Why Missile Defense is Still Needed” http://www.riponsociety.org/forum310g.htm)
The administration’s plan for missile defense has four stages that continue through 2020. The program includes both land and sea-based interceptors. Ultimately, the fourth phase would move the system beyond regional defense and protect the entire U.S. homeland against an ICBM attack. Unfortunately, the administration has cut back on other integral parts of the comprehensive program. The number of ground-based interceptors in Alaska and California has been cut from 44 to 30, the planned “third site” for missile defense in Poland and the Czech Republic was cancelled, and funding has been eliminated for space.

**This is disastrous – the US faces threats from Russia, China, rogue states, and terrorists**

Independent Working Group 2007 (The Independent Working Group is co-chaired by Dr. Robert Pfaltzgraff, President of the Institute of Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA) at Tufts University, and by Dr. William R. Van Cleave, Professor Emeritus of the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, and a member of the original U.S. delegation which drafted the 1972 ABM Treaty. Ambassador Henry F. Cooper, who in former roles oversaw both development of missile defense for the U.S. and was chief negotiator to the Geneva Defense and Space Talks, Dr. Robert Jastrow, founding director of NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies, and Dr. Lowell Wood, a Physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Commissioner on the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) were among the numerous missile defense, space, and security experts from the scientific, technical, and national security policy communities around the country who are members of the Independent Working Group. Members of the Working Group also include Brian T. Kennedy, president of the Claremont Institute, and Thomas Karako, Director of Programs at the Claremont Institute and editor of Missilethreat.com. Sponsors and authors of the IWG report include eight think-tanks headquartered in Washington D.C., California, Alaska, Missouri, Massachusetts, and around the country.2007(Collective report/study) “missile defense and the space relationship and the 21st century”2007 http://www.missilethreat.com/repository/doclib/IWGreport.pdf
So far, however, the United States has stopped short of put¬ting these principles into practice. Rather, the missile defense system that has emerged since President Bush’s historic De¬cember 2002 announcement of an “initial set” of missile de¬fense capabilities provides extremely limited coverage, and no global capability. Instead, by the administration’s own ad¬mission, it is intended as a limited defense against a small, rogue state threat scenario. Left unaddressed are the evolv¬ing missile arsenals of – and potential missile threats from – strategic competitors such as Russia and China as well as terrorists launching short-range missiles such as Scuds from off-shore vessels.

**1AC – Inherency (2/2)**
**National Security concerns make space weaponization inevitable – even if we don’t, others will – we MUST take steps to protect ourselves**

Mueller ’02 (Karl P. Prepared for presentation at the International Studies Association Annual Convention, works for the Research and Development Nonprofit Global Thinktank “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?” March 27, 2002 New Orleans DOA: 7/18/11 AW)
Far and away the best argument that space weaponization is inevitable, and the only such argument that can plausibly stand on its own, is that the military utility of space weapons for the United States and/or its enemies will soon be so great that the imperative of protecting national security will make space weaponization impossible for rational statesmen to resist. Exactly what these weapons would do, and how, varies from one weaponization vision to another, but the standard expectation is that space weapons would eventually defend friendly satellites against enemy attack, attack enemy space weapons and other satellites that perform important military functions, shoot down long-range ballistic missiles, and conduct attacks against enemy air and surface forces and other terrestrial targets. Some weaponization advocates anticipate that space weapons will ultimately supplant many, or even most, types of terrestrial military forces; others have more modest expectations, but all predict that space weapons will be the best, and in some cases the only, systems available to fulfill at least some key military roles. The core of this inevitability argument is that even (or especially) if the United States chooses not to build space weapons, other countries will certainly do so, in large part because of the great and still growing degree to which U.S. military operations depend upon what has traditionally been known as “space force enhancement”: the use of satellites to provide a vast array of services including communications, reconnaissance, navigation, and missile launch warning, without which American military power would be crippled. This parallels the argument that the importance of satellites to the U.S. economy will make them an irresistible target, except that military satellites are far more indispensable, and successful attacks against a relatively small number of them could have a considerable military impact, for example by concealing preparations for an invasion or by disrupting U.S. operations at a critical juncture. Rivals of the United States might also find space-to-earth weapons to be a very attractive way to counter U.S. advantages in military power projection.

**1AC – Plan Text**

**Text: The United States Department of Defense should deploy a global space-based ballistic missile defense system beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. We’ll clarify.**
**We have 3 advantages**

**Miscalc 1AC (1/4)**

===**Advantage 1 is Russia Miscalculation**=== 
**US and Russian nuclear arsenals are on high alert – The risk of miscalc is high**

Giacomo 2003 (Carol, Writer for Reuters “Experts Fear U.S.-Russia Nuclear 'Miscalculation'” 5/22/03)

More than a decade after the Cold War ended, the world faces a possible "perfect storm" of security factors that has increased the risk of an accidental or unauthorized nuclear exchange between the United States and Russia, experts said yesterday. A study by the RAND think-tank, strongly endorsed by former U.S. senator Sam Nunn and his non-profit group The Nuclear Threat Initiative, paints a devastating picture of Russia's strategic capabilities and challenges assumptions about the degree to which better U.S.-Russian relations have improved security. In the report and at a news conference, they called for world leaders to address the problem. The chilling assessment came as the Republican-dominated U.S. Senate cleared the way for research and development of a new generation of low-yield nuclear weapons, up to about a third as large as the bomb dropped on Hiroshima in World War II. A day after senators voted to lift a 10-year-old ban on such weapons research, Democrats sought a compromise that would allow the research, but prohibit the development. Senators instead approved lifting the ban on both research and development, but would require the American president to seek congressional authorization before producing any of the new weapons. "This issue is as clear as any issue ever gets: You're either for nuclear war or you're not," said Democratic Senator Ted Kennedy. "Either you want to make it easier to start using nuclear weapons or you don't." New Scientist magazine, meanwhile, reports that the British government is recruiting scientists for its nuclear weapons program, raising fears among anti-nuclear campaigners that London may join Washington in developing new-generation nuclear weapons. Britain's Atomic Weapons Establishment has confirmed it hopes to hire 80 physicists, material scientists and systems engineers this year and to increase its work force by 300 or more by 2008, the magazine says. The scientists may be involved in research with the United States under a mutual defense agreement. Nunn said the post-Cold War era has seen lessened chances of a premeditated nuclear strike by Washington or Moscow, but "on balance my belief is that the risk has increased ... for a perfect storm in terms of a nuclear miscalculation or an accident." The RAND study cites three reasons for this: First, the United States and Russia retain large nuclear forces on "hair-trigger" alert, meaning they could be launched in minutes and destroy both societies in an hour. Second, economic and social problems have led Russia to rely increasingly on nuclear arms. The number of Russian weapons that could survive a U.S. first strike attack has declined dramatically, its submarine fleet has been "decimated," its early warning system has deteriorated to the point of "serious disrepair," and many of its intercontinental ballistic missiles are "well beyond their planned service lives," the report says. Moreover, "the breakdown of order in Russia, economic difficulties, and low morale of its military personnel and the rise of organized crime and separatist violence have increased concern" about nuclear force security, it said. Third, the vulnerability of Russian forces is enhanced by the increasing capability of U.S. forces to deliver accurate and devastating strikes, the report concluded. All this means "the incentive (for Moscow) is to launch quickly use it or lose it," said David Mosher, one author of the study. The report foresaw three scenarios: an intentional unauthorized nuclear weapon launch by a terrorist or rogue commander; a missile launched by mistake; or an intentional launch of nuclear weapons based on incorrect or incomplete information.

**a. Suspicion**

Blair 1998 (Bruce, president of the World Security Institute, Loose Cannon, Review of Peter Pry's War Scare (Atlanta: Turner Publishing); Graham Allison et al.'s Avoiding Nuclear Anarchy: Containing the Threat of Loose Russian Nuclear Weapons and Fissile Material (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996); Andrew and Leslie Cockburn's One Point Safe (New York: Anchor Doubleday, 1997), The National Review, Lexis, accessed 7/19/11, AA)
This litany of "war scares"--stretching from the early 1980s through the 1995 nuclear false alarm triggered by Norway's launching of a scientific rocket--indicates to Pry that the Russian military's paranoia about a sudden U.S. nuclear strike, combined with the country's internal turmoil, has created a real nuclear risk about which we (himself apart) remain totally ignorant. Russia could easily miscalculate U.S. nuclear intentions and mount a nuclear attack, he says, "for no good reason." This brief is sometimes persuasive, particularly in the case of the tense nuclear relations during the early 1980s. And although he stretches his thesis beyond its tinsel strength, the Russian defense establishment is more suspicious of the West than most observers imagine, the nuclear threshold is lower than commonly perceived, and the domestic and international context is a more pivotal factor in Russian threat assessment than is normally recognized. Worse, perhaps, the danger of Russian nuclear miscalculation is not as remote as many suppose, and the progressive deterioration of Russian early warning and control represents a more serious threat than either of our governments is willing to acknowledge. Pry stands on solid ground, too, when he advises the United States to weigh more carefully the potential for our security policies, military operations, and exercises to rattle the Russians, whose current military weakness increases their susceptibility to fear and panic.
Miscalc 1AC (2/4)

**b. False warning**

Blair 1998 (Bruce, president of the World Security Institute, Accidental Nuclear War — A Post–Cold War Assessment, http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJM199804303381824#t=articleResults, accessed 7/19/11, AA)
Possible scenarios of an accidental or otherwise unauthorized nuclear attack range from the launch of a single missile due to a technical malfunction to the launch of a massive salvo due to a false warning. A strictly mechanical or electrical event as the cause of an accidental launch, such as a stray spark during missile maintenance, ranks low on the scale of plausibility.29 Analysts also worry about whether computer defects in the year 2000 may compromise the control of strategic missiles in Russia, but the extent of this danger is not known. Several authorities consider a launch based on a false warning to be the most plausible scenario of an accidental attack.20,29 This danger is not merely theoretical. Serious false alarms occurred in the U.S. system in 1979 and 1980, when human error and computer-chip failures resulted in indications of a massive Soviet missile strike.10,30 On January 25, 1995, a warning related to a U.S. scientific rocket launched from Norway led to the activation, for the first time in the nuclear era, of the “nuclear suitcases” carried by the top Russian leaders and initiated an emergency nuclear-decision-making conference involving the leaders and their top nuclear advisors. It took about eight minutes to conclude that the launch was not part of a surprise nuclear strike by Western submarines — less than four minutes before the deadline for ordering a nuclear response under standard Russian launch-on-warning protocols.10,24,27

**c. Human Error**

Phillips 02 (http://www.web.net/~cnanw/20mishaps.htm “20 Mishaps That Might Have Started Accidental Nuclear War” Physician of protecting the world from nuclear weapons and wrote for the Canadian network to abolish nuclear weapons.)
The extreme boredom and isolation of missile launch crews on duty must contribute to occasional bizarre behaviour. An example is reported by Lloyd J.Dumas in Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists vol.36, #9, p.15 (1980) quoting Air Force Magazine of 17 Nov. 71. As a practical joke, a silo crew recorded a launch message and played it when their relief came on duty. The new crew heard with consternation what appeared to be a valid launch message. They would not of course have been able to effect an actual launch under normal conditions, without proper confirmation from outside the silo. The probability of actual progression to nuclear war on any one of the occasions listed may have been small, due to planned "fail-safe" features in the warning and launch systems, and to responsible action by those in the chain of command when the failsafe features had failed. However, the accumulation of small probabilities of disaster from a long sequence of risks add up to serious danger. There is no way of telling what the actual level of risk was in these mishaps but if the chance of disaster in every one of the 20 incidents had been only 1 in 100, it is mathematical fact that the chance of surviving all 20 would have been 82%

**Miscalc 1AC (3/4)**

**Once the first missile is launched, warning systems automatically trigger a response – the entire arsenal gets unloaded.**

Hoffman 1999 (David, writer of Washington Post Foreign Service, Russia’s Myopic Missile Defense, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/inatl/longterm/coldwar/shatter021099a.htm PJ)
There have been several close calls. In September 1983, the Soviet early-warning system sent a false signal to ground stations that a U.S. missile attack was underway. After a few anxious minutes deep in a Soviet defense bunker, the mistake was recognized by an officer on duty. In another case that highlights the early-warning risks, the launch of a Norwegian scientific rocket in 1995 triggered a false alarm that was reported all the way to Yeltsin. At the time of the 1983 alarm, the Soviet satellites positioned to detect U.S. ballistic missile launches had been on station for only about a year. Launched into a high elliptical orbit, the satellites did not look directly down at Earth; rather, they peered at an angle, depending on infrared waves to identify the hot exhaust of a rocket against the black background of space. To keep tabs on U.S. missile fields, an array of satellites was needed. Their space tracks followed one after another, sweeping over the known missile locations in the United States; but they were prone to drift from their orbits and had to be replaced often. Podvig said he believes it can look down at the North Atlantic – Tridents also patrol the Pacific – while Theodore A. Postol, a professor at MIT, has questioned whether it has look-down capability at any ocean. Without this capacity, Postol said, Russia would be blind to sea-launched missiles. "Russia has no space-based early warning against the most potent threat its land-based forces face, the U.S. Trident submarine-launched ballistic missiles," he said. Postol noted that Russia's system of ground-based early-warning radar has also been degraded because many installations were built on the Soviet periphery – outside Russia – and are now in independent states. An important radar station in Latvia was closed last August and has not been replaced, and there are other gaps, as well. Postol has mapped "corridors" in which missiles could be launched at Russia that would not even show up on the existing radar screens. One such avenue runs from the Pacific, where most Tridents are based, into the heart of Russia from the Far East. "There are large parts of the Russian forces that could be attacked from the Gulf of Alaska and would be destroyed without Russia even knowing an attack was underway," Postol said in an interview. "Moscow could be destroyed within four to five minutes of the radars seeing the incoming warheads." The situation is risky, Postol said, in that it could drive Russia more and more toward making a quick decision to retaliate – one that would be based on less reliable information. But Podvig said he is not as worried as Postol about Russia's early-warning problems. "If you consider Cold War scenarios, a lack of early warning is a really bad thing. You can come up with all kinds of first-strike scenarios. But I'm not that pessimistic. My view is that, even if Russia has no early-warning capability, no radars, no satellites, and still relies on intercontinental ballistic missiles and launch-on-warning, in any crisis, Russia will still have to be taken seriously," he said.

**Miscalc 1AC (4/4)**

**Impact is extinction.**

Helfand and Pastore 2009 (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat. March 31, 2009.http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)
President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled to Wednesday in London during the G-20 summit. They must not let the current economic crisis keep them from focusing on one of the greatest threats confronting humanity: the danger of nuclear war. Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. Alarmingly, more than 2,000 of these weapons in the U.S. and Russian arsenals remain on ready-alert status, commonly known as hair-trigger alert. They can be fired within five minutes and reach targets in the other country 30 minutes later. Just one of these weapons can destroy a citytgp. A war involving a substantial number would cause devastation on a scale unprecedented in human history. A study conducted by Physicians for Social Responsibility in 2002 showed that if only 500 of the Russian weapons on high alert exploded over our cities, 100 million Americans would die in the first 30 minutes. An attack of this magnitude also would destroy the entire economic, communications and transportation infrastructure on which we all depend. Those who survived the initial attack would inhabit a nightmare landscape with huge swaths of the country blanketed with radioactive fallout and epidemic diseases rampant. They would have no food, no fuel, no electricity, no medicine, and certainly no organized health care. In the following months it is likely the vast majority of the U.S. population would die. Recent studies by the eminent climatologists Toon and Robock have shown that such a war would have a huge and immediate impact on climate world wide. If all of the warheads in the U.S. and Russian strategic arsenals were drawn into the conflict, the firestorms they caused would loft 180 million tons of soot and debris into the upper atmosphere — blotting out the sun. Temperatures across the globe would fall an average of 18 degrees Fahrenheit to levels not seen on earth since the depth of the last ice age, 18,000 years ago. Agriculture would stop, eco-systems would collapse, and many species, including perhaps our own, would become extinct. It is common to discuss nuclear war as a low-probabillity event. But is this true? We know of five occcasions during the last 30 years when either the U.S. or Russia believed it was under attack and prepared a counter-attack. The most recent of these near misses occurred after the end of the Cold War on Jan. 25, 1995, when the Russians mistook a U.S. weather rocket launched from Norway for a possible attack. Jan. 25, 1995, was an ordinary day with no major crisis involving the U.S. and Russia. But, unknown to almost every inhabitant on the planet, a misunderstanding led to the potential for a nuclear war. The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today. The nuclear danger will not pass until the U.S. and Russia lead the other nuclear states to a Nuclear Weapons Convention that seeks to abolish these weapons forever. As a critical first step the U.S. and Russia must take their weapons off ready-alert status. Presidents Obama and Medvedev can do this on their own by executive order. Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.

**Asteroids 1AC (1/3)**

===**Advantage 2 is Asteroid deflection**=== 
**As asteroid can hit within 15 minutes of detection. Absent a defense system, extinction is inevitable.**

Globus 2011 (Al, “Lifeboat Foundation” AsteroidShieldSenior Research Associate for Human Factors Research and Technology at San Jose State University at NASA Ames Research Center http://lifeboat.com/ex/asteroid.shield) AW
If we don't do something, sooner or later Earth will be hit by an asteroid large enough to kill all or most of us. That includes the plants and animals, not just people. Maybe this won't happen for millions of years. Maybe in 15 minutes. We don't know. For example, on 23 March 1989 asteroid 1989FC with the potential impact energy of over 1,000 megatons (roughly the equivalent a thousand of the most powerful nuclear bombs) missed Earth by about six hours [1]. We first saw this fellow after closest approach. If 1989FC had come in six hours later most of us would have been killed with zero warning. It's unlikely, but a large comet or asteroid could impact the Earth in 15 minutes and eventually we will be be hit, for sure. We are hit by thousands of smaller asteroids every year and we don't see any of them before the collision. Detection of larger, Earth-threatening rocks is very far from complete. At the present rate it will take years before we find just 90% of them. Beside these inevitable cosmic disasters the long list of potential human-induced potential calamities — nuclear war, ecological collapse, global warming, epidemics, etc. — are less certain and far less dangerous, although much more likely in the near term. After all, the worst of these would probably kill less than three quarters of the people on the planet. A good sized asteroid will get us all.

**Asteroids 1AC (2/3)**

**We control all probability and magnitude. There is 100% probability of an asteroid collision and even a small one causes Hiroshima type damage.**

Globus 2011 (Al, “Lifeboat Foundation” AsteroidShieldSenior Research Associate for Human Factors Research and Technology at San Jose State University at NASA Ames Research Center http://lifeboat.com/ex/asteroid.shield) AW
Hiroshima Level Impact We have been warned. In October of 1990 a very small asteroid struck the Pacific Ocean with a blast about the size of the first atomic bomb; the one that leveled Hiroshima, Japan killing roughly 200,000 people in seconds. If this asteroid had arrived ten hours later it would have struck in the middle of more than a million U.S. and Iraqi soldiers preparing for war. It could have struck near U.S. forces. The U.S. would have thought Iraq attacked with a nuclear weapon. America would have used its immense nuclear arsenal to turn Iraq into a radioactive wasteland, and even one nuclear bomb can ruin your whole day. Don't worry though, these small asteroid strikes only happen about once a month [3]. Besides, it gets worse. Hydrogen Bomb Level Impact In 1908 a small asteroid (perhaps 50 meters across) hit Tunguska, Siberia and flattened 60 million trees. That asteroid was so small it never even hit the ground, just exploded in mid-air. If it had arrived four hours and fifty-two minutes later it could have hit St. Petersburg [3]. At the time St. Petersburg was the capital of Russia with a population of a few hundred thousand. The city would have ceased to exist. As it was, dust from the blast lit up the skies of Europe for days. Asteroid strikes this size probably happen about once every hundred years. However, this is just an average. Just because we got hit once doesn't mean we're safe for another hundred years. Indeed, there was another Tunguska-class strike in the Brazilian rain forest on 13 August 1930 [3]. But don't worry, it gets worse. Greater than Earth's Entire Atomic Arsenal Level Impact It's not just Earth. In 1178 our Moon was hit by an asteroid creating 120,000 megatons explosion (about six times the force of Earth's entire atomic arsenal). The collision dug a 20 km (12 mile) crater. This strike was recorded by a monk in Canterbury, England. We are extremely lucky it didn't hit us. The moon is a smaller target and has much less gravity to attract an impactor. If a 120,000 megaton blast had hit the Earth our history would have been dramatically different. Catastrophes of this magnitude happen on Earth perhaps once every 1,000 years or so. We're just lucky the last one hit the Moon instead. Fifty Times the Earth's Entire Atomic Arsenal Level Impact: A Billion Dead There are about 1,000 asteroids a kilometer or more in size that cross Earth's orbit (the path Earth takes around the Sun). About a third of these will eventually hit Earth [2] if we don't do something about it. An asteroid strike this large can be reasonably expected to kill a billion people or so, depending on where it hits. A strike in China or India will kill more, in Antarctica less. Even a strike in the ocean would create a tsunami so enormous most people living near the coast would be drowned. A strike of this size is expected about once every 300,000 years or so. We might as well be playing Russian roulette. Admittedly, the revolver has 300,000 cylinders, but if we keep pulling the trigger long enough we'll blow our head off, and there's no guarantee it won't be the next pull. But don't worry, it gets worse. Ten Thousand Times the Earth's Entire Atomic Arsenal Level Impact but Hit Jupiter Instead... The most recent large strike also missed Earth. In July 1994, the comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 plowed into Jupiter. The comet broke up into roughly 20 large pieces before contact, but when the pieces hit they left a string of enormous explosions clearly visible to our telescopes. The scale of the destruction was staggering. Each impact was the equivalent of about 10 million megatons of TNT. If Shoemaker-Levy had hit Earth instead of Jupiter, in the extremely unlikely event you were alive you certainly wouldn't be reading this report. You'd spend every waking moment trying to survive. But don't worry, it gets worse. Ten Thousand Times the Earth's Entire Atomic Arsenal Level Impact and it Hit Us! Sixty-five million years ago a huge asteroid several kilometers across slammed into the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico. The explosion was the equivalent of about 200 million megatons of dynamite, about the equivalent of all 20 pieces of Shoemaker-Levy. The blast turned the air around it into plasma — a material so hot electrons are ripped from the atomic nucleus and molecules cannot exist. This is the stuff the Sun is made of. Enormous quantities of red-hot materials were thrown into space, most of which rained down worldwide burning literally the entire planet to a crisp. Anything not underground or underwater was killed. Evidence gathered by the University of Colorado at Boulder suggests that all the dinosaurs above ground were incinerated in a few hours reference. Surprisingly, only about 75% of the plant and animal species on Earth were exterminated. What's surprising is that everything wasn't wiped out. This scenario has been repeated over and over, perhaps once every 100 million years or so. Each collision killed up to 95% of all species on Earth. As many as two-thirds of all species that ever existed may have been terminated by asteroids hitting the Earth.

**Asteroids 1AC (3/3)**

(Card cont.)
Ocean Impact We know about the asteroid that killed the dinosaurs because we found the crater. But what happens when an asteroid hits the ocean? After all, oceans cover two-thirds of the Earth's surface. Most asteroid strikes must be in water. Unless the asteroid is very large there won't be a crater. However, if you drop a rock into a lake it makes a wave. The larger the rock the bigger the wave. Drop a 400 meter (three football fields) diameter asteroid into the Atlantic Ocean and you get a tsunami 60 meters (yards) high [4]. Do that today and beach side property values will plummet due to the sudden and complete absence of any people or buildings. Almost every human culture has a flood story (for example, Noah's Ark). These may be the living memory of asteroids hitting the oceans. This is not idle speculation, there are several hundred thousand asteroids in near Earth orbits large enough to cause world-wide casualties by creating tsunamis [1]. Of course, if the asteroid is big enough, even a hit in the ocean will rearrange the Earth's crust. Researchers from the University of Toronto and the Geological Survey of Canada determined that an asteroid the size of Mt. Everest probably hit the Earth about 1.8 billion years ago, and literally turned part of the Earth inside out [5]. The crater is about 250 kilometers (156 miles) wide. It's amazing that anything survived at all, but somehow a few of our single-celled ancestors lived through the ensuing hell. Life started on Earth over 3 billion years ago, but no large animals appeared until about 700 million years ago —

**Space lasers can be used to defect asteroids and other NEO’s**

Mazanek et al. 2005 (Daniel D. Mazanek, Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia, Comet/Asteroid Protection System (CAPS): Preliminary Space-Based System Concept and Study Results, NASA Study, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2005-CometAsteroidProtectionSystem%28CAPS%29-NASA.pdf accessed 7/18/2011)
Many methods for altering the trajectory of a comet or asteroid have been proposed (ref. 1), but the most feasible approaches require a spacecraft to intercept or rendezvous with the target. Given a spacecraft with an advanced propulsion system (such as plasma or nuclear) capable of rapid rendezvous with the target, one deflection approach would be to physically attach to the object and thrust in the proper direction to change the object’s orbit. There are many technical issues associated with this approach, but the one that is fundamentally limiting is the propellant required. Providing large quantities of propellant to permit a rapid rendezvous or intercept is difficult, but delivering enough propellant to alter the orbit of a massive asteroid or comet nucleus is impractical for an immediate threat. This situation is also possible for large NEAs found many years before impact; although the required ΔV is small, they can be extremely massive. One approach that can circumvent this problem and alter the trajectory of the object in a highly controlled manner is to use pulsed laser ablative propulsion. A sufficiently intense laser pulse ablates the surface of the NEO by causing plasma blow off. The spacecraft would station-keep with the object at a “small” standoff distance while the laser ablation is performed. The momentum change from a single laser pulse is very small; however, the cumulative result is very effective because the laser can interact with the object over significant periods of time. The laser ablation technique can overcome the mass penalties associated with other nondisruptive approaches because no propellant is required to generate the ΔV (the material of the celestial object is the propellant source). Additionally, laser ablation is effective against a wide range of surface materials and does not require any landing or physical attachment to the object.


**China 1AC (1/4)**

===**Advantage 3 is China Aggression**=== 
**Chinese analysts have already concluded American development of space as a threat – they’ll inevitably weaponize unless deterred.**

Hagt 2007 (Eric, director of the China Program at the World Security Institute, in Washington, D.C. and Beijing, His research interests include Sino-U.S. relations in the field of space, energy and a range of non-traditional security issues, China Security, Winter 2007, pp. 31 – 51, http://www.wsichina.org/%5Ccs5_3.pdf, DOA: 7/18/2011)
In the past decade, China has derived a number of key conclusions from its observations of U.S. military activities in space that have fundamentally shaped China’s own strategic posture. The first is the profound implications of space for information and high-tech wars. China witnessed with awe and alarm the power of the U.S. military using satellite communication, reconnaissance, geo-positioning and integration capabilities for an impressive show of force beginning first with the Gulf war in 1991 to the recent campaign in Afghanistan and Iraq.1 The U.S. military’s almost complete dependence on space assets has also not escaped the close examination of Chinese analysts.2 Coupled with a number of key U.S. policy and military documents that call for control in space and the development of space weapons as well as the U.S. refusal to enter into any restrictive space arms control treaty, China has concluded that America is determined to dominate and control space.3 This perceived U.S. intent leads Beijing to assume the inevitable weaponization of space.4 Even more worrisome for China is the direct impact of these developments on China’s core national interests. The accelerated development of the U.S. ballistic missile system, especially as it is being developed in close cooperation with Japan, has been cited as threatening China’s homeland and nuclear deterrent.5 The ‘Shriever’ space war games conducted by the U.S. Air Force in 2001, 2003 and 2005 strongly reinforced the conclusion that U.S. space control sets China as a target.7 Most central to China’s concerns, however, is the direct affect U.S. space dominance will have on China’s ability to prevail in a conflict in the Taiwan Straits. As U.S. military space developments have evolved, China’s observations and subsequent conclusions have engendered a fundamental response: we cannot accept this state of affairs. For reasons of defense of national sovereignty as well as China’s broader interests in space – civilian, commercial and military – America’s pursuit of space control and dominance and its pursuit to develop ASATs and space weapons pose an intolerable risk to China’s national security.9

**The perception of US vulnerability in space is THE internal link to Chinese weaponization and aggression**

Pollpeter ’05 ( Kevin L. "The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations." China's Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs: Emerging Trends in the Operational Art of the Chinese People's Liberation Army. Ed. David M. Finkelstein. Alexandria, VA: CNA Corporation, December 2005. [ 9 quotes ] [ page 369 ]), http://spacedebate.org/argument/2580
Whether the U.S. military is overly reliant on space systems may be inconsequential. The perception that space warfare is inevitable and that the U.S. military is highly vulnerable to strikes against its space systems may not only be one factor that leads China to attack U.S. space assets, but it also may lead them to believe that they can conduct a successful military campaign against the United States. It has been noted by some Chinese writers that the United States does consider attacks against its space assets as an act of war, but this has not dissuaded them from advocating developing space for military uses. Consequently, China's increasing interest in the military use of space poses serious challenges to the U.S. military. The U.S. military cannot assume that in a potential armed conflict China will adopt the types of passive defenses that the U.S. military has faced in the past. This requires the U.S. government to better understand China's space program in order to identify how China will use space in armed conflict and requires the U.S. government to begin meeting the threats that China may pose to the U.S. space architecture, either through diplomacy or technology.


**China 1AC (2/4)**

**And, Chinese ASAT development will deter the US from protecting Taiwan by exploiting asymmetric vulnerability**

The Straits Times 2007 [“China takes the arms race into space; It may be testing technology it has acquired but there is a political price”, Jonathan Eyal, Jan 22 Accessed on June 24, 2011 at lexisnexis.com]
WESTERN governments have known about Beijing's space efforts for years. The challenge for intelligence services now is to guess what is China's military ultimately seeking to achieve with its reported Jan 11 anti-satellite missile test. China's successful use of what military experts call a 'kinetic kill vehicle' - a missile which destroys a target by hitting it at high speed - may look spectacular, but the technology is well-known; both the United States and the Soviet Union tested it two decades ago. Contrary to received opinion, the Russians and the Americans abandoned their tests not so much because they were worried about the impact on the environment from the large amount of debris, but more because the use of such weapons could have been misinterpreted by an opponent then as the start of a nuclear war. But the world has changed since then. The world's most advanced militaries and much of the global economy rely on satellites. America's predominance in this field is overwhelming: out of about 850 active spacecraft now orbiting the Earth, over half are US-owned. For anyone seriously interested in standing up to the US, the ability to make such satellite vulnerable is not a luxury, but a necessity. And the Chinese military has further incentives to excel in this field. For, unlike the Soviet Union, China never sought to match the Americans weapon-for-weapon but, rather, to develop 'killer' technologies which can wipe out US technological advantages. The Chinese space programme fits perfectly into such strategy. Beijing must have been aware that, by testing its missile capabilities now, it will pay a heavy political price. The chorus of condemnation is extensive, and it includes not only the US, Japan and the European Union, but also Russia, whose military edge is equally threatened. The test also sits awkwardly with repeated Chinese claims of peaceful intentions. And it undermines China's own diplomacy, which has long called for an international treaty to prevent the military use of space. So the most plausible explanation for China's test: it has acquired a technology which it has sought for more than a decade, and was keen to test it. Beijing may have calculated that the political backlash will not matter, since the Americans are already engaged in similar projects. After all, the latest US space policy, outlined in a paper released last October, declared Washington's intention to 'preserve its rights, capabilities and freedom of action in space... and deny, if necessary, adversaries the use of space capabilities hostile to US national interests'. The main Chinese objective may not be a direct confrontation with America, but just to raise the price which the US has to pay in defending Taiwan. The name of the game is what military experts call 'access denial', forcing the US to keep its distance from what Beijing considers as its regional interests. In the short-term, some of America's most important space assets are not threatened, since they fly at much higher altitudes. But the US will have to respond, in a variety of ways. These could include the launch of many smaller satellites, coupled with decoys which can fool Chinese defences. American anti-missile technology will also be improved, in order to deprive Beijing of its advantage. Hardliners in Washington are now gearing up for a new arms race. The Heritage Foundation has already suggested spending 'billions or tens of billions of dollars a year, pretty much year in and year out'. The US Administration may resist such demands for the moment. Yet there is no question that the world has just experienced a historic event. A military race has now moved into space. And America now identifies China as the only country able and willing to challenge its technological supremacy. The future looks rosy for military industries. But not for Asian stability.


**China 1AC (3/4)**

**China will escalate the conflict – perception of rational escalation ensures US gets drawn into the nuclear arms race**

Glaser, PolSci Prof at George Washington, ’11 (Charles, March/April, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?” Foreign Affairs, Vol 90 Issue 2, EbscoHost)
ACCOMMODATION ON TAIWAN? THE PROSPECTS for avoiding intense military competition and war may be good, but growth in China's power may nevertheless require some changes in U.S. foreign policy that Washington will find disagreeable--particularly regarding Taiwan. Although it lost control of Taiwan during the Chinese Civil War more than six decades ago, China still considers Taiwan to be part of its homeland, and unification remains a key political goal for Beijing. China has made clear that it will use force if Taiwan declares independence, and much of China's conventional military buildup has been dedicated to increasing its ability to coerce Taiwan and reducing the United States' ability to intervene. Because China places such high value on Taiwan and because the United States and China--whatever they might formally agree to--have such different attitudes regarding the legitimacy of the status quo, the issue poses special dangers and challenges for the U.S.-Chinese relationship, placing it in a different category than Japan or South Korea. A crisis over Taiwan could fairly easily escalate to nuclear war, because each step along the way might well seem rational to the actors involved. Current U.S. policy is designed to reduce the probability that Taiwan will declare independence and to make clear that the United States will not come to Taiwan's aid if it does. Nevertheless, the United States would find itself under pressure to protect Taiwan against any sort of attack, no matter how it originated. Given the different interests and perceptions of the various parties and the limited control Washington has over Taipei's behavior, a crisis could unfold in which the United States found itself following events rather than leading them. Such dangers have been around for decades, but ongoing improvements in China's military capabilities may make Beijing more willing to escalate a Taiwan crisis. In addition to its improved conventional capabilities, China is modernizing its nuclear forces to increase their ability to survive and retaliate following a large-scale U.S. attack. Standard deterrence theory holds that Washington's current ability to destroy most or all of China's nuclear force enhances its bargaining position. China's nuclear modernization might remove that check on Chinese action, leading Beijing to behave more boldly in future crises than it has in past ones. A U.S. attempt to preserve its ability to defend Taiwan, meanwhile, could fuel a conventional and nuclear arms race. Enhancements to U.S. offensive targeting capabilities and strategic ballistic missile defenses might be interpreted by China as a signal of malign U.S. motives, leading to further Chinese military efforts and a general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.

**And, even if China remains rational, the mere prospect of a Space Pearl Harbor will cause the US to preemptively strike China – leads to all-out war.**

Tellis, Senior Associate at Carnegie, 2007 (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)
Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space warfare implies that a future conflict in the Taiwan Strait would entail serious deterrence and crisis instabilities. If such a clash were to compel Beijing to attack US space systems at the beginning of a war, the very prospect of such a ‘space Pearl Harbor’94 could, in turn, provoke the United States to contemplate pre-emptive attacks or horizontal escalation on the Chinese mainland. Such outcomes would be particularly likely in a conflict in the next decade, before Washington has the opportunity to invest fully in redundant space capabilities. Already, US Strategic Command officials have publicly signalled that conventionally armed Trident submarine- launched ballistic missiles would be appropriate weapons for executing the prompt strikes that might become necessary in such a contingency.95 Such attacks, even if employing only conventional warheads, on space launch sites, sensor nodes and command and control installations on the Chinese mainland could well be perceived as a precursor to an all-out war. It would be difficult for all sides to limit the intensification of such a conflict, even without the added complications of accidents and further misperception.


**China 1AC (4/4)**

**US-China war bankrupts the US, drawns in rivals, and escalates to nuclear use**

Chalmers Johnson, author of Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire, 5/14/2001, The

Nation, Pg. 20
China is another matter. No sane figure in the Pentagon wants a war with China, and all serious US militarists know that China’s minuscule nuclear capacity is not offensive but a deterrent against the overwhelming US power arrayed against it (twenty archaic Chinese warheads versus more than 7,000 US warheads). Taiwan, whose status constitutes the still incomplete last act of the Chinese civil war, remains the most dangerous place on earth. Much as the 1914 assassination of the Austrian crown prince in Sarajevo led to a war that no wanted, a misstep in Taiwan by any side could bring the United States and China into a conflict that neither wants. Such a war would bankrupt the United States, deeply divide Japan and probably end in a Chinese victory, given that China is the world’s most populous country and would be defending itself against a foreign aggressor. More seriously, it could easily escalate into a nuclear holocaust. However, given the nationalistic challenge to China’s sovereignty of any Taiwanese attempt to declare its independence formally, forward-deployed US forces on China’s borders have virtually no deterrent effect.

**Only developing defensive space capabilities solves**

Moltz 2003 Associate Professor and Academic Associate for Security Studies (James Clay, New Challenges in Missile Proliferation, Missile Defense, and Space Security, http://kms1.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/ISN/14386/ipublicationdocument_singledocument/36D8EB06-A8CB-474E-AD1E-4B55C8047526/en/op12.pdf JH)
When the Galaxy IV communication satellite in a geostationary orbit 36,000 kilometers (km) above the United States failed catastrophically in May 1998, an estimated 80 to 90 percent of the 40 million U.S. pager customers were affected by the disruption. Internet access via the satellite was severed as well. Television feeds and news wire service transmissions were also affected.1 The failure of the onboard attitude control subsystem of the PanAmSat satellite was a rare occurrence but not an unexpected one given the harsh natural environment in which satellites operate, thousands of kilometers away from the nearest repairmen on the Earth. If such disruptions could happen in the absence of man-made threats to satellites, what would be the implication for national security were such disruptions to be caused by hostile acts? Given the U.S. reliance on its space systems for national security, would the United States (as some have argued) face a future “space Pearl Harbor” if it did not first acquire the means to protect its space systems from deliberate harm?


**Solvency – Ballistic Missiles**

**A space based missile defense system is the only defense system that can prevent any and every missile threat**

IFPA 09 (Institute for foreign policy analysis l Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf
Other things being equal, it is preferable to intercept threatening ballistic missiles as far away from their intended targets and as early in their flight trajectory as possible. Best of all would be to have the capability to destroy an attacking missile shortly after it is launched, while its rockets still burn and any perturbation will lead to its destruction – with, in many cases, the debris falling back onto the area from which the attack was launched in the first place. The capability to interdict a missile and its warheads in any phases of their flight (boost, midcourse, and terminal) requires an ability to detect and intercept the attack within a very few minutes and to track and destroy the attacking missile and its warheads during their longer midcourse traverse through space before they reenter the atmosphere. Finally, the lastditch defense would be to destroy the attacking missiles as they reenter and pass through the atmosphere – and as accompanying debris and decoys burn up on reentry – in the terminal phase en route to their targets. The best defense ca- height of burst (km) 100 300 500 EMP Coverage intensity also depends upon weapon design & location of burst14 Twenty–First–Century Threats Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, and the Twenty-First Century pability would be layered so that it could provide opportunities for destruction in all three phases of flight. Only space-based defenses inherently have this global capability and permanence. While sea-based defenses can move freely through the two-thirds of the earth’s surface that are oceans, their capability is limited by geography and by the specific operations of the fleet – including where the seabased missile defense happens to be deployed at any given time, and how quickly it could be redeployed to meet a crisis situation. Air-based and ground-based defenses, meanwhile, can have global capabilities, but frequently take considerable time to deploy when and where needed and are also dependent on the cooperation of U.S. friends and allies in permitting the necessary supporting activities on their territories. Thus, only a space-based missile defense will possess both constancy and global availability, irrespective of allied support and agreement. As such, space-based missile defense constitutes the only truly global system, with all the rest being either regional or local
Solvency – Lasers Good

**20 SBLs would effectively protect America from ballistic missiles**

Claremont Institute July 18, 2011 (Claremont Institute “Space Based Laser (SBL)” 7/18/11, http://www.missilethreat.com/missiledefensesystems/id.57/system_detail.asp) EH
Technical challenges aside, a fully operational 20-satellite constellation of SBLs would provide the United States with an effective means of eliminating large quantities of enemy missiles. In addition to providing continuous global coverage, SBL would take between one and ten seconds to destroy each missile and as low as 0.5 seconds to lock on to its next target (depending on the range). In other words, SBL would be able to respond instantaneously and comprehensively to missiles launched from anywhere on the globe. It is estimated that a 20-satellite constellation would destroy almost all threats, while a 12-satellite constellation would eliminate 94 percent. An added benefit of SBL is that it would force aggressors to think twice before launching nuclear, chemical, and biological warheads, since the destruction of a ballistic missile in its boost phase would cause payload debris to rain down on its launcher’s own territory. Despite its manifest advantages, the future of SBL remains uncertain. In 2002, MDA suspended research and development in order to concentrate on other components of the Ballistic Missile Defense System. At present, no decision has been made to deploy an operational SBL as part of a nationwide missile shield. Yet the fact remains that SBL’s potential to instantaneously destroy almost all missiles launched against the United States would force terrorists and aggressive nations to abandon their ballistic missile programs—since SBL would render them essentially useless.

=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===Enclosure K=== 

===Anthropocentrism K=== 

==Counterplans== 
===XO CP=== 

===EU CP=== 

===International Co-op CP=== 

==DA's== 
===PTX=== 

===Trade-Offs=== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]