[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Property Rights</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Plan: the United States federal government should create a limited first possession system of property rights on Mars.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1AC Property Rights-ADV 1 Space Colonization]]ADV 1 Space Colonization</span>== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Limited first possession is the most efficient method of allocating property rights</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Collins, Lecturer City Law School London, ’08</span> (David, 14 B.U. J. SCI. & TECH. L. 201, EFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ON THE PLANET MARS, Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law, Summer, twm)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">VII. Bounded First Possession by Landfall</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">As an alternative to fixing future ...</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">of land on Mars, would be necessary.</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> n83</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Property rights is key to encourage the first colonizers.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Collins, Lecturer City Law School London, ’08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (David, 14 B.U. J. SCI. & TECH. L. 201, EFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ON THE PLANET MARS, Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law, Summer, twm)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">The recognition of bounded land claims on a ... to the rise in population of an area. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Private property rights key to colonization – no incentive to create livable areas without property rights.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Collins, Lecturer City Law School London, ’08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (David, 14 B.U. J. SCI. & TECH. L. 201, EFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ON THE PLANET MARS, Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law, Summer, twm)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">However, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">the land on Mars is naturally ...</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">to others in a market, and to use the land in a productive manner are crucial incentives.</span></span>__

Space colonization increases chances for long term human survival
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baum,</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rock Ethics Institute, Pennsylvania State University,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> **’09** </span>
(Seth D. Baum Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 2, Pages 75-80; “<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cost–benefit analysis of space exploration: Some ethical considerations”; 3 April 2009; [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964609000198]] [Schaaf]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">While</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">space colonization would provide a hedge ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> is necessary to determine the most cost-effective means of increasing the probability of long-term human survival.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">Matheny, Research Associate at Oxford, 7 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jason, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //Risk Analysis//, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">As for astronomical risks</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">, to escape our sun's death, ...events, and human expansion into the Solar System is, in the end, fundamentally about the survival of the species."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan is the most cost-effective way to reduce existential risk—when you evaluate impacts you have to include the value of all FUTURE generations of people.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">Matheny, Research Associate at Oxford, 7 (Jason, </span>Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Risk Analysis</span>//, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]]</span>)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">6. COST EFFECTIVENESS AND UNCERTAINTY To ...humanity will certainly die out in 1,000 years, asteroid defense would be cost effective at $4,000 per life-year. </span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1AC Property Rights-Advantage 2 Property rights]]Advantage 2 Property rights</span>== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US domestic space law key to setting precedents that everyone else will use</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Porras ’06</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Daniel, 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143, “The ‘Common Heritage’ of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”, twm)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Jurisprudence is now equally entering...</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;"> have the largest influence on what legal frameworks are adopted or rejected.</span></span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Now is the critical time for private property rights – countries are looking to the US as a model. Your cap bad arguments are irrelevant other perspectives were tried and your K lost – the only question is what type of capitalism the world will have.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jacobs 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Harvey, received his graduate degrees from Cornell University (Ph.D, 1984). He has won awards and recognition for his research and teaching from Cornell University (in 1980 and 1982), joint appointment as Professor in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning and the Gaylord Nelson Institute for Environmental Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, “u.s. private property rights in international perspective,” Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, pg online @</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[@http://urpl.wisc.edu/people/jacobs/jacobs%20publications/Jacobs%20-%202009%20-%20PPR%20in%20Intl%20Perspective%20-%20Linc%20bk.pdf|__http://urpl.wisc.edu/people/jacobs/jacobs%20publications/Jacobs%20-%202009%20-%20PPR%20in%20Intl%20Perspective%20-%20Linc%20bk.pdf__]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> , ZAKBurdette)</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is a period of history in which there is intense ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(de Soto 2000; Thallam 2008).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capitalism and free trade are good—it’s responsible for most of the good in the world. The root cause of structural violence is a lack of free markets. Areas that have started to develop must transition to the next level of capitalism or they will be locked in misery for a very long time property rights are key to this transition.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goklany ’07</span>** (Indur, scholar who has 25 years of experience working and writing on global and national environmental issues. He has published several peer-reviewed papers and book chapters on an array of issues Author of The Improving State of the World: Why We're Living Longer, Healthier, More Comfortable Lives on a Cleaner Planet, Mar. 23, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.reason.com/news/show/119252.html]]</span>, twm)

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Environmentalists and globalization foes are united...</span>__ **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__also recognizing and preserving the important ideas and institutions that caused it, and ensuring that they endure__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Capitalism spreads democracy globally</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Griswold, Associated Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, 04</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Daniel, “Free Trade Sows Seeds for Democracy,” 18 Feb, [[http://www.cato.org/research/articles/griswold-040218.html]])</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One of the most powerful forces for spreading democracy ...</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">state-dominated economies.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Global democracy solves multiple scenarios for war and extinction</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Diamond, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, 95</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Larry, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s”, Dec,[[http://www.carnegie.org/|http://www.carnegie.org]]//sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security ...</span>reliable foundation on which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative]]Negative</span>= 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC SKFTA Generic]]1NC SKFTA Generic</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC SKFTA Generic-1nc Trade]]1nc Trade</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama will submit FTAs to Congress this month --- votes are there but Obama must work to ensure continued support and prevent anti-trade measures</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Palmer, 9/2</span>** (Doug, 9/2/2011, Reuters News,” ANALYSIS-Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall,” Factiva, JMP)

WASHINGTON, Sept 2 (Reuters) - After a slow start that has frustrated U.S. business groups, the next four months could be important to President Barack Obama's legacy on trade.
Obama has a goal of doubling U.S. exports by 2014 but he has not moved as aggressively as his Republican predecessor, George W. Bush, to open markets abroad.
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This month business ...</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Institute for International Economics.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama’s capital is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">McLarty & Cunningham, 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> – *chief of staff to Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort, AND **Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden (1/24/11, Thomas "Mack" McLarty III and Nelson W. Cunningham, “Obama's Free Trade Opportunity,” Factiva, JMP)**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">Much has been written about Bill D...</span></span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8px;"> in the Democratic base, but it is essential.</span></span>**

SKFTA key to boost the alliance, prevent Korean conflict and solidify U.S. leadership
Hubbard, 4/7**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8px;"> – Senior Director for Asia, McLarty Associates and Former Ambassador to South Korea (4/7/11, Thomas, Congressional Documents and Publications, “House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade Hearing - Brady Announces Third in a Series of Three Hearings on the Pending, Job-Creating Trade Agreements: South Korea Trade Agreement,” Factiva, JMP)</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">The United States-South Korea Free Trade Agreement...</span></span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__and economic interests into the future.__</span>**

And, Korean conflict will escalate to __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">global</span>__ nuclear war
STRATFOR, 10 **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/08/25/obama-rebuilding-libya_n_936852.html|http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP)</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">Managing Escalation</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">But </span>__no one, of ...__</span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">escalates much further.</span>__

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC SSP]]1NC SSP</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC SSP-CP PRIVATIZATION]]CP PRIVATIZATION</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The first offcase position is the privatization counterplan that we are reading unconditionally.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The United States federal government should grant a 25 year tax exemption to the first private entity that [mandate of the plan].</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Tax incentives empirically solve space solar</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Environment911 10 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">(9/11, Environmental Education website, [[http://www.environment911.org/98.Solar_Panel_Innovation_Making_Solar_Power_on_the_Moon%29JFS|http://www.environment911.org/98.Solar_Panel_Innovation_Making_Solar_Power_on_the_Moon)JFS]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">A</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;"> Japanese </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">firm has recently ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;"> advantages and long-term benefits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Tax credits solve SSP </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">SSP Workshop 7 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">(Workshop assembled to report to congress on the state of SSP, [[http://www.sspi.gatech.edu/sunsat-how.pdf%29JFS|http://www.sspi.gatech.edu/sunsat-how.pdf)JFS]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">This is why </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">we suggest</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;"> separate ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14.6667px;">the only clean baseload solution.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC SSP-DA - POLITICS SKFTA]]DA - POLITICS SKFTA</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The second offcase position is the politics disadvantage.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Passage of trade agreements likely --- Obama is making an __aggressive push__ and compromises are being forged now</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Palmer, 9/13</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">(Doug, 9/13/2011, “Momentum builds for U.S. action on trade deals,” [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/13/us-usa-trade-deals-idUSTRE78C7QW20110913?feedType=RSS&feedName=domesticNews]], JMP)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">(Reuters) - Senate Majority Leader ...</span>with the trade pacts.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zero Congressional support for SPS --- its __too expensive__ and __tied to unpopular military space programs__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Day 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> (Dwayne A., Program Officer – Space Studies Board of the National Research Council, “Knights in Shining Armor”, The Space Review, 6-9, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">If all this is true, why is the space activist ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">that has no clout</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SKFTA key to US trade leadership</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bacchus 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> – chairman, Global Trade and Investment Practice Group, Greenberg Traurig (James, 12/30/10, “Reviving U.S. Power Abroad From Within,”[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/23701/reviving_us_power_abroad_from_within.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">But the president may be beginning to realize ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">yet another opportunity for achieving bipartisan success in the new year.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trade is good</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dreier 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> – Rep. Chairman of the House Rules Committee (Rep. David Dreier, 1/5/11, Politico, “Bipartisanship can revive economy,” [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0111/47044.html]], JMP)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">There are no higher priorities...</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">growth and global leadership through trade.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trade solves war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Griswold, 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> – director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (Daniel, “Peace on earth? Try free trade among men,” 12-29-2005, [[http://www.freetrade.org/node/282]]) // JMP</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">Buried beneath the daily stories ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">with its own peace dividend.</span>__


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC SSP-DA - SPACE DEBRIS]]DA - SPACE DEBRIS</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The third offcase position is the debris disadvantage.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space Debris managed now, increased Space Exploration and development pushes us past the point of no return.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Wright 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">(David, Co director and senior scientist with the global security program of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Cambridge, Massachusetts, “Space Debris,” Physics Today, [[http://physicstoday.org/journals/doc/PHTOAD-ft/vol_60/iss_10/35_1.shtml?bypassSSO=1]], October, CDG) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">The threat to satellites </span>The debris ...<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">very expensive, but are being studied.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One SPS system would require 80 launches – additionally they don’t solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rapp 2007</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> [Donald – PhD in chemical physics and research professor @ Viterbi School of Engineering @ University of Southern California, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources”, February 18, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">[[http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf]]]</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">While the NASA Reference ...</span>of 3 HLLV launches per month<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We are at critical mass – continued increases in space debris eliminate the possibility of future space exploration and development</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">SENECHAL 07</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> (Thierry, Policy Manager of the Commission on Banking Technique and Practice at the International Chamber of Commerce and holds degrees in economics and finance from Harvard University, London Business School, and Columbia University, Space Debris Pollution: A conventional proposal, 2007, [[http://www.pon.org/downloads/ien16.2.Senechal.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">The time is right for addressing the problem p...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">poison relations between major powers.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space debris increases the risk of strikes on Russian early-warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Lewis ‘04</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> (Jeffrey, Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July,[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider ...national nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC SSP-AT ADV – DETERRENCE]]AT ADV – DETERRENCE</span>== 

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">No impact to hegemony </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Friedman 10</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">—research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT (Ben, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, [[http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html]], AMiles)</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another argument</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;"> for ...requirements and threaten to drag us into wars, while providing no obvious benefit. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our satellites aren’t vulnerable – US can take out ASATs</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shachtman 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> (Noah, 1/10/2008, Wired, “How China loses the Coming Space War, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-chin]], mat)</span>

If China was to attack<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;"> ...</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">wait</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;"> for D-day </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">in</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;"> their parking </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">orbit</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our assets aren’t vulnerable and will deter an attack on Taiwan</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shachtman 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> (Noah, 1/10/2008, Wired, “How China loses the Coming Space War, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-chin]], mat)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">If all goes as planned</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, China ...</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-guided munitions..</span>__

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1NC SSP-AT ADV – ENERGY]]AT ADV – ENERGY</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Peak oil theory wrong—six reasons</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hossein-zadeh 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> – Professor of Economics, Drake (Ismael, 6/25, Are they really oil wars?, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/JF25Dj05.html]], AG)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Peak Oil theory</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> is based ... threat against Iran, fuel prices move up several notches. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Peak oil won’t cause conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dombrowski 4</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> – associate professor, US Naval War College's Strategic Research Department (Peter, Naval War College Review, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_1_57/ai_113755359/print]], AG)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">Unfortunately, Klare barely pauses... efficient since the oil shock of the 1970s. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Long timeframe means intervening actors in a free market check – means counterplan is key to solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Feathestone 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;"> – journalist specializing in energy, the Middle East, and Islam (Charles, The Myth of "Peak Oil", [[http://mises.org/story/1717]], AG)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">But</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;"> as demand </span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px;">across ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14.6667px;"> if the price is right.</span></span>__

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]