[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Natural Law AC=== 
V:M

Observ. 1: Skep
- neg must defend converse of the resolution
- resolution making single claim statement: that moral obligations entail beneficence, not if morality exists
- I can prove laws of Harry Potter disallow X even if Harry Potter isn't real

Morality = systematic guide to action based on human nature. Natural tendencies of human beings give us free will to chose whether we follow our nature. Rothbard 1
__Rothbard, Murray. "Natural Law and Reason." The Ethics of Liberty, Part 1 Chapter 1 (pgs 4-8). [American Economist and Author; Ph. D. in Econ - Columbia '56)__
"in natural law philosophy, then, ... the free will to choose."

And, only observable facts from nature can tell us what is purposeful. Rachels 1
__Rachels, James. "Does Morality Depend on Religion?" The Elements of Morality (online) ed. 4. [Fmr. Prof of Philopshy @ U Alabama - Birmingham. Ph. D. from UNC '67]__
"The Theory of natural law rests upon... nature has a purpose. // It seems obvious ... the point of the whole arrangement."

Standard: Consistency with Natural Law
A) Morality moves us towards a good life, but we can't know what is good outside of objective experiences, so morality reflects and is corollary to what is natural true. van Dun
__van Dun, Frank. "Natural Law." <<http://users.ugent.be/~frvandun/Texts/Logica/NaturalLaw.htm>> [Senior Lecture (Associate Prof. equivalent) in Philosophy of Law @ University of Gent, Belgium. Ph. D. and J.D.]__
"Respect for natural law ... to share their feelings for it."

B) The, if there is a purpose for something, and if nature mandates my moral rules, then violating those mandates is morally wrong. Rachels 2
__Rachels, James. "Does Morality Depend on Religion?" The Elements of Morality (online) ed. 4. [Fmr. Prof of Philopshy @ U Alabama - Birmingham. Ph. D. from UNC '67]__
"A corollary of this ... acts are said to be morally wrong."

As such, being a moral human entails being in sync with your human nature.
__Murphy, Mark C. "The Natural Law Tradition in Ethics." Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Winter 2011 Edition. [Pd. D. from Notre Dame '93; Prof. of Philosophy @ Georgetown U]__
The precepts of natural law ... strong emotions or evil dispositions.

Observ. 2: Preclusion
- epistemology determines how we know things
- before we know what is moral or what rules of a game are, must first know what moral is and how to move pieces in a game.
- in deriving all we know we look at human nature and facts around us. Thus, these facts precede ethical theories b/c the theories contradict natural law they cannot be right

But, even rejecting justification for natural law, we should still adopt it as if it were true. Natural Law has done immense objectivef ethical good empirically. Rothbard 2
__Rothbard, Murray. "Natural Law Versus Positive Law." The Ethics of Liberty, Part 1 Chapter 4. [American Economist and Author; Ph. D. in Econ - Columbia '56)__
"If, as we have seen, ... they ought to be instantly abrogated.'"

Even disregarding emprical examples, Natural Law is a powerful check on state power and potential abuse.
__Rothbard, Murray. "Natural Law Versus Positive Law." The Ethics of Liberty, Part 1 Chapter 4. [American Economist and Author; Ph. D. in Econ - Columbia '56)__
"If, then, the natural law... any given status quo."

I contend that being beneficent is consistent with our natural dispositions and human nature, and thus there is a moral obligation to be beneficent.

Hominids, our evolutionary ancestors, literally could not have evolved into Homo Sapiens without a community. Solon Kimball
__Kimball, Solon T. "Community and Hominid Emergence." Anthropology and Education Quarterly 13:2. Summer 1982. [Ph. D. in Social Anthropology - Harvard '36; Prof. Emeritus of Anthropology @ Florida University]__
"Speculation about the factors contributing ... within a three-general population. (Arensburg 1961:241-264)."

And, a community is abolsutely necessary for humanity - you are not human without social context.Kimball 2
__Kimball, Solon T. "Community and Hominid Emergence." Anthropology and Education Quarterly 13:2. Summer 1982. [Ph. D. in Social Anthropology - Harvard '36; Prof. Emeritus of Anthropology @ Florida University]__
"Humanity, by definition, require a specific combination ... not an inevitable consequence."

Living in a community mandates beneficence. Rachels 3
__Rachels, James. "Does Morality Depend on Religion?" The Elements of Morality (online) ed. 4. [Fmr. Prof of Philopshy @ U Alabama - Birmingham. Ph. D. from UNC '67]__
"Consider, for example, the duty of beneficence ... behind its whole sexual ethic."
==Negative== 
===Internal Obligations NC=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">V:M </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">- guides us to action</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">A moral obligation is a duty to do or not to do something on the grounds that it is moral or immoral. Mothersill</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">__Mothersill, Mary. "Duty." //Encyclopedia of Philosophy//. 1967. Farmington Hills, MI: Thomson Gale, 2006. 153. [Fmr. Professor of Philosophy @ Barnard College, sub-college of Columbia University; Fmr. (1998) President of the American Philosophical Society (?)]__ </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">"<span class="UnderlineBold">If the social conditions necessary...</span> the way that they prescribe."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">The negative is a criticism of the affirmative’s outlook on morality as one which makes a set of demands.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">A) Duties, because they are externally imposed, cannot provide internal motivations. Poole 1 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">__Poole, Ross. “Towards Morality” //Morality and Modernity.// p 135. Routledge Publishing: New York 1991. [BPhil 1969, Oxford University; Adjunct Prof. of PolySci & Philosophy @ New School for Social Research] JE__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">" In the modern world ... between and within ourselves."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">We employ external justifications for internal motivations, not vice versa. Carruthers</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Carruthers, Peter. “Chapter 2: Utilitarianism and Contractualism”. The Animals Issue: Moral Theory in Practice. Cambridge University Press, 1992. [Prof. of Philosophy @ U Maryland; Ph. D. From Oxford.] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">"Another approach, defended by Scanlon ... </span>self-interest and self-deception."

2 Implications


<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">1- ,detaching ourselves from our society is harmful to the idea of morality, for we are who are based on our backgrounds in society.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">2- Based on a divided self, actions do not necessarily coordinate with motivation. Obligations force us to do something, but that’s not suitable given our actions are strictly internally motivated.</span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">B) To be truly moral then, I must act in sync with genuine reasons. No matter how altruistic you are, it’s probable you’ll consider yourself first. As such, morality that is based off guiding me towards my own well-being is optimal. Poole 3</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">__Poole, Ross. “Towards Morality” //Morality and Modernity.// p 135-45. Routledge Publishing: New York 1991. [BPhil 1969, Oxford University; Adjunct Prof. of PolySci & Philosophy @ New School for Social Research] JE__</span>
"If we lived in a society ... contributes to social well-being."

C)  The aff framework links to poole1 because its morality functions on a series of external constraints implied by duties and obligations. Morality that can be acted upon does not have external constraints. Rather, it guides us based on our conceptions of how we want to live. Any morality based on duties or obligations is self defeating because of the dual-self. Poole 4
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">__Poole, Ross. “Towards Morality” //Morality and Modernity.// p 135-45. Routledge Publishing: New York 1991. [BPhil 1969, Oxford University; Adjunct Prof. of PolySci & Philosophy @ New School for Social Research]__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">"This fuller conception of morality ... requirements of our own nature."</span>

The aff can’t affirm because moral obligations are non-sensical : an obligation is followed because a fear of an authority, but morality is my guide to well-being and not coercive. When I do something to be moral, I do it because I feel there is a reason to do so – not because I can be obligated to do so through laws or fear of authority. Thus, a moral "Obligation" cannot exist, and you negate.




=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">
<span class="UnderlineBold"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">2 Implications: </span></span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">1- As morality is a social phenomena, I can’t be moral or immoral if you put me in a box and gave me no human contact. Thus, detaching ourselves from our society is harmful to the idea of morality, for we are who are based on our backgrounds in society.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">2- Based on a divided self, actions do not necessarily coordinate with motivation. Obligations force us to do something, but that’s not suitable given our actions are strictly internally motivated.</span>
</span>