[[toc]]
=GEOSS Aff= 

**Our capacity to observe earth is diminishing now: current budget increases are insufficient to maintain and expand the development of environmental monitoring.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space 2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(National Research Council, Earth Science and Applications from Space: National Imperatives for the Next Decade and Beyond </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog/11820.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The extensive scientific and societal contributions...</span>NASA QuikSCAT mission terminates.


**GEOSS can address climate change data needs, but more US support is critically lacking.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Lewis et. Al. 2010</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(James A., senior fellow and director of the Technology and Public Policy Program at CSIS; Sarah O. Ladislaw, CSIS Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program; and Denise E. Zheng, CSIS; Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">GCOS, GEO, CEOS, and </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">GEOSS... </span>of climate change remains essential.

**Plan text: The United States Congress should provide all necessary funding for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to fulfill developmental requirements for the United States’ component of the Global Earth Observation System of Systems.**

=== === 
**Advantage 1 is Global Climate Change:**

**The earth continues to warm as an increasing rate: newest science confirms.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Associated Press June 29 (2011, “World still warming up, researchers warn”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">The world’s climate is...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">Atmospheric Administration and NASA.</span>__


**Warming is happening – Sea ice, Glaciers, Ice Sheets, and Tropical Regions. Kills coral reefs and phytoplankton**
Hansen 2009<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">heads the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NASA|NASA]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goddard_Institute_for_Space_Studies|Goddard Institute for Space Studies]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professors_in_the_United_States#Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_University|Columbia University]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, December, Storms of My Grandchildren, 164-166)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">In addition to paleoclimate data, ... </span>energy balance, to first approximation.

=== === 
**And, warming is anthropogenic; the scientific consensus is steadily growing to unanimity.**
Lichter 08’<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University and President of the Center for Media and Public Affairs, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. S. Robert Lichter, April 24 2008, Statistical Assessment Service, “Climate Scientists Agree on Warming, Disagree on Dangers, and Don’t Trust the Media’s Coverage of Climate Change”, <http://stats.org/stories/2008/global_warming_survey_apr23_08.html>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Over </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">eight out of ten... </span>47% in 1991 to 69% in 2007.

**<span class="Heading3Char">We’re reaching a tipping point – action now is critical to prevent positive feedbacks</span>**
**Hansen 2009**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">heads the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NASA|NASA]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goddard_Institute_for_Space_Studies|Goddard Institute for Space Studies]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professors_in_the_United_States#Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_University|Columbia University]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, December, Storms of My Grandchildren, 72-74)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;">Ice sheet response to global warming ... </span>But let's not get ahead of the story.


**And positive feedbacks cause extinction.**
Hansen 2009<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">heads the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NASA|NASA]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goddard_Institute_for_Space_Studies|Goddard Institute for Space Studies]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professors_in_the_United_States#Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_University|Columbia University]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, December, Storms of My Grandchildren, 236)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">The paleoclimate record does not... </span>Venus syndrome is a dead certainty.


**This will cause massive biodiversity loss that results in extinction**
Hansen 2009<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">heads the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NASA|NASA]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goddard_Institute_for_Space_Studies|Goddard Institute for Space Studies]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professors_in_the_United_States#Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_University|Columbia University]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, December, Storms of My Grandchildren, 147)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The current extinction... </span>human-caused extinctions to a moderate level.


**Only a prioritization of Earth observation satellites can provide the necessary data, verification, and political will to solve global climate change.**
**Lewis et. Al. 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James A., senior fellow and director of the Technology and Public Policy Program at CSIS; Sarah O. Ladislaw, CSIS Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program; and Denise E. Zheng, CSIS; Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">Climate change poses a dilemma for... </span>largest share of the cost at this time.

=== === 
**Advantage 2 is Disasters**
**Natural and technical disasters are increasing at an alarming rate. The globe is becoming a field of intensifying death and destruction.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Brunsma and Picou 2008 (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">David, University of Missouri, and J. Steven, University of South Alabama, Disasters in the Twenty-First Century: Modern Destruction and Future Instruction Social Forces Volume 87, Number 2, December 2008)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Sociologists are becoming increasingly aware ... </span>throughout the broader discipline.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We have turned away from recognizing the responsibility of the government to care for its most vulnerable populations, especially in the face of uncontrollable environmental changes. The refusal to hold the government responsible for disaster preparedness and response result in the marking of racialized populations as expendable in favor of the smooth functioning of the market.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 2006 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Henry, Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department, Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability, College Literature 33.3 (2006) 171-196)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">Soon after</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Hurricane </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">Katrina hit...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">allegedly no longer existed</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;"> in color</span>__


**The refusal to engage in disaster preparedness exacerbates the global vulnerability to environmental change, ensuring the global poor can never escape the devastating cycle of poverty.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Briceño 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Sálvano Director, United Nations, International “Strategy for Disaster Reduction Linking Disaster Risk Reduction and Poverty Reduction” )</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">Disasters are often portrayed... </span>__scaled up or replicated on a wider scale.


**Our affirmative is a mechanism by which we can reclaim public spaces to demand transformation of the biopolitics of disposability towards a politics of democratic inclusion. Recognition of the responsibility to transform our relation to natural disaster and how it renders populations vulnerable and expendable is key to transformative politics.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 2006 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(Henry, Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department, Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability, College Literature 33.3 (2006) 171-196)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">Katrina reveals that we are living...</span>indifferent in the face of death.


**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Earth Observation Satellites decentralize the state monopoly on information, allowing citizen groups to be meaningfully engaged in state politics. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Litfin 1999 (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Karen T., Professor of Political Science, University of Washington, The Status of the Statistical State: Satellites and the Diffusion of Epistemic Sovereignty, Global Society, Vol. 13, No.1, 1999)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The ability to control the flow of information,...scientific and political control.</span>



**And such mechanisms of participatory democracy are crucial to the creation of responsible and engaged citizens. The alternative is injustice and powerlessness.**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dr. Henry A. **Giroux 2009** (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Global Television Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies @ McMaster University; Received his Doctorate from Carnegie-Mellon in 1977. “__Obama's View of Education Is Stuck in Reverse__,” TruthOut, July 24th, Available at </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.truthout.org/072409A]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">Situated within a broader context...rather than the bottom line</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.(6)</span>



**Furthermore, only the investment in Earth Observation Satellites allow us to respond to catastrophe not retrospectively, but rather through a connection to our shared communities that provides the basis for the preparation for global environmental change, mitigating inegalitarian sacrifice.**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Wigbels et. Al., 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Lyn, G. Ryan Faith, and Vincent Sabathier; Senior Fellow/Assistant Professor at the Center for Aerospace Policy Research at George Mason University; research analyst at the space foundation at CSIS; senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE Why? Where Are We? What Next?, A Report of CSIS Space Initiatives, csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">Is it possible to predict...</span>global change on a routine basis.


**<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">Solvency:</span>**
**<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">The United States must fulfill its commitment to GEOSS in order to provide accurate data and the leadership necessary to resolve the mounting environmental changes we are experiencing. </span>**
Killeen 2005<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Timothy L. Director @ the National Center for Atmospheric Research. “__NASA Earth Science__” 4-28-05. CQ Congressional Testimony. Accessed Via Lexis/Nexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">The first example is probably... </span>to simultaneous multiple stresses.


**And finally, the United States’ participation is crucial to successful implementation of GEOSS.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Wigbels et. Al., 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Lyn, G. Ryan Faith, and Vincent Sabathier; Senior Fellow/Assistant Professor at the Center for Aerospace Policy Research at George Mason University; research analyst at the space foundation at CSIS; senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE Why? Where Are We? What Next?, A Report of CSIS Space Initiatives, csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11.5pt;">In July 2003, the United States...impact on the future of GEO</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>//





=Negative= 
We have gone for lacan most of our rounds.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]