[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The sacred order is founded on exclusive narratives which approach otherness with hostility and violence, while a holy community is founded on narratives of hospitality which affirm dignity.</span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fasching and deChant </span>**200**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1</span>** (Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, Dell, Director of Religious Studies in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, //Comparative Religious Ethics: A Narrative Approach,// Pp. 10)</span>
Human religiousness is defined by two opposing types of experience

<span style="text-align: justify;">Holy communities are produced through an alienated theology, which rejects the pretension towards certainty in our own narratives, leaving us open to the transformative impact of the experiences of others. The apologetic theology of sacred orders is a methodology of domination. Its foreclosure of the possibility of truth in difference condemns us to an apocalyptic stalemate moving ever closer to human self-destruction.</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching</span>19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">93</span> (Darrell J. Fasching is a Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Aushwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 5-8)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">The best way to describe the "style" of the theology of culture proposed i</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sacred narratives either deny or securitize the extraterrestrial – this is a dangerous form of anthropocentrism which sees the entire universe as something created to serve humans, inevitably leading to extinction from warfare and ecological destruction</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zimmerman</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2</span> (Michael E., “Encountering Alien Otherness,” //The Concept of the Foreign//, ed. Rebecca Saunders, [[http://www.colorado.edu/philosophy/paper_zimmerman_Alien_Otherness.pdf]])</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">Driven by complex motivations, including the desire to free inquiry from religious dogmatism</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Societies founded upon the sacred order inevitably engage in violent attempts to eradicate difference which will inevitably escalate to extinction. These sacred narratives must be interrupted by ones founded on openness to the stranger and compassion towards alterity</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching</span> 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">93 </span>(Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 287-290) Burr</span>
In the Christian case, as I argued in //Narrative Theology after Auschwitz//, these norms were severed

Contention Two – The Search
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SETI will most likely never find extra-terrestrial life if it continues to use radio technology, because it assumes that aliens will have first off have been as advanced in technology as us, and had the same technology as us, which is highly improbable.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campell 2k11</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hank Communicating Astronomy To The Public (CAPJournal) </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Science mediaSETI Shut Down - Aliens Who Sent Radio Signals 400 Years Before Radio Was Invented Will Be Disappointed Professor of Science Media incorporation)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It's easy, really. The number one job - the only job - of a non-profit CEO is to be out th</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">PLAN : The United States Federal Government should use send telescopes in the NASA program beyond the Earth’s mesosphere to search for Extra-Terrestrials traces on asteroids.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most effective way to search for Extra-terrestrial life is by using telescopes on earth to identify any signs of mining on asteroids.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dynamic World 2k11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Trends at glance; Dynamic world. Includes professors from Havard Prinston Edinburgh Searching for extra-terrestrial life, most effectively)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scientists have spent 50 years sending radio signals deep</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA has the capability to search for aliens, it’s a matter of utilizing the technology for the specific duties, in this case searching for ETs</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA 2k8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA's Deep Impact Begins Hunt for Alien Worlds 02.07.08 US Space station in Houston)</span>**
__NASA's Deep Impact spacecraft is__



<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">This open search for extraterrestrial life is necessary the sacred anthropocentrism dominating modern society. Only this search can reinvigorate critical theory and rupture the dominant narrative of sovereignty</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wendt and Duvall</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span> (Alexander, The Ohio State University, and Raymond, University of Minnesota, “Sovereignty and the UFO,” June 11, Political Theory 36: 607)</span>
<span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The kind of resistance that can</span>**</span>
<span class="underline0"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Searching for extraterrestrial life ruptures the dominant cosmology which places humans as the masters of the universe and allows for endless domination</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zimmerman</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2</span> (Michael E., “Encountering Alien Otherness,” //The Concept of the Foreign//, ed. Rebecca Saunders,. http://www.colorado.edu/philosophy/paper_zimmerman_Alien_Otherness.pdf)</span>
Many <span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Enlightenment thinkers</span>**</span>, showing the influence

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Utopian ethics are necessary to preserve human dignity and make incremental steps towards the creation of an ethical world. Otherwise, unjust means become ethical and inevitably lead to unjust ends</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching, 1993</span>(Darrell, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima)</span>
<span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Utopians </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">seem to </span><span class="underline0">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">offer vague hopes for some unrealizable fu</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">­</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ture</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Thier separation of personal ethics from public policy is the only way genocide becomes possible</span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Herbert</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> 200</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Brent, “The Genocidal Mentality, Pt. 1: The 'free market' as genocidal ideology,” http://www.awitness.org/journal/free_market_genocide.html)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In a later book, the Genocidal Mentality, Lifton went on to generalize the workings of a classic</span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]