[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC Greenhill== 


**The United States depends upon China for rare earth minerals.**
**Dent 2k9** (Peter, Vice President of Business Development @ Electron Energy Corporation, “High Performance Magnet Materials: Risky Supply Chain,” August 2009, Online [AL])

Today, **__nearly… United States.__**

**China will end rare earth mineral exports by 2012 due to supply shortages in China- collapses civilization.**
**Adams 2k10** (Mike, editor of Natural News, “Global supply or rare earth elements could be wiped out by 2012,” January 26 2010, Online [AL])

**__It's the bubble… civilization rests__**

**The US needs to start mining asteroids— only way to overcome the crunch.**
**The Washington Times 2k1** ( “US urged to mine ‘rare earth’ minerals for high-tech devices: China dominates market in obscure metals” April 11, 2011, Online, [TL])

**__It is time for… united states__**

**Plan: The United States federal government should mine near earth objects for minerals, volatiles, and any resources necessary for in-situ resource utilization.**

<span class="Underline">**We Reserve The Right To Clarify**</span>


**__Contention 2 primacy__**

**Rare earth elements are key to missile navigation systems necessary for first strike capability.**
**Kennedy 2k10** (J., <span style="color: black;">President of Wings Enterprises, “Critical and Strategic Failure of Rare Earth Resources</span>,” March 2010, Online [AL])

The national defense… first strike superiority

**Advanced military technology upgrades ICBMs which are key to counterforce and nuclear primacy.**
**Lieber & Press 2k7** (Keir A., <span style="color: black;">Assistant Prof. Poli Sci @ University of Notre Dame, Daryl G., Assoc. Prof. of Government @ Dartmouth University, 2007, “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent,” Online [AL])</span>

Furthermore, **__the… more capable__**

**Inevitable reductions mean that accuracy upgrades are key to counterforce capabilities.**
**McDonough 2k9** (David S., <span style="color: black;">Doctoral Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies @ Dalhousie University, March 2009, “Tailored Deterrence: The ‘New Triad’ and the Tailoring of Nuclear Superiority,” Online [AL])</span>

Less noticed… counterforce strikes

**Loss of US nuclear primacy leads to proliferation and global nuclear war.**
**Caves 2k10** (John P., <span style="color: black;">Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” January 2010, Online [AL])</span>

**__Perceptions of… could inflict__**

**Conventional wars with adversaries is inevitable—stable US nuclear primacy is the only way to prevent nuclear escalation.**
**Lieber & Press 2k9** (Keir A., <span style="color: black;">Assistant Prof. Poli Sci @ University of Notre Dame, Daryl G., Assoc. Prof. of Poli Sci @ University of Pennsylvania, Nov/Dec 2009, “The Nukes We Need: Preserving the American Deterrent,” Online [AL])</span>

<span class="Underline">This second criticism… on a bluff</span>

**Scenario One: Iran and North Korea**

**<span style="color: black;">Iran and North Korea are testing the credibility of US nuclear threats</span>****<span style="color: black;"> now --- lack of credible long-range deterrence</span>****<span style="color: black;"> is perceived globally. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Payne et al 2k9 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Dr. Kieth Study Director & President of the National Institute for Public Policy, Dr. Kathleen Bailey, Former Assistant Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Mr. Kurt Guthe, Director of Strategic Studies at NIPP, Dr. Robert Joseph, Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security, US Department of State, Ms. Stephanie Koeshall, Analyst at NIPP, Mr. Tom Scheber, VP of NIPP, Dr. Mark Schneider, Senior Vice President at the International Crisis Group, Dr. Andrei Shoumikhin, Senior Analyst at NIPP, and Mr. Henry Sokolski, Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center , “Planning the Future U.S. Nuclear Force”, Volume I: Executive Report, National Institute Press, October 2009 [AL])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The proliferation … than Taipei.”13</span>


<span style="color: black;">Clear and credible commitments **are necessary to deter** </span><span class="underline0" style="color: black;">Iran and North Korea</span><span style="color: black;"> – **lack of credibility causes** </span><span class="underline0" style="color: black;">deterrence breakdowns</span><span style="color: black;">.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Arbuckle 2k8</span><span style="color: black;"> (Larry J., "The Deterrence of Nuclear Terrorism through an Attribution Capability", Naval Postgraduate School, Thesis for master of science in defense analysis, approved by Professor Robert O'Connell, and Gordon McCormick, Chairman, Department of Defense Analysis, Naval Postgraduate School, June, pp. 56-57)</span>

Additionally, **__…__** nuclear weapons.


<span style="color: black;">North Korean and Iranian adventurism and risk-taking triggers escalation and war.</span>

<span class="tagchar1">**<span style="color: black;">Dibb 2k6</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(Emeritus Prof of IR @ Australian National University, Sydney Morning Herald (Australia), August 15, 2006 Tuesday, “As one nuclear flashpoint reaches a lull, another simmers away”, Online [AL])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">NOW that the building blocks for achieving a cessation in hostilities in the crisis involving Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon are in place, the focus can shift back to the main game -</span>**__<span style="color: black;">… Middle East.</span>__**

**Triggers World War.**
**Bosco 2k6** (David, <span style="color: black;">senior editor at Foreign Policy magazine, “Could This Be the Start of World War III? As the Middle East erupts, there are plenty of scenarios for global conflagration”, Los Angeles Times, July 23 2006, Online)</span>
IT WAS … **__are nose to nose.__**


**<span style="color: black;">Credible nuclear deterrence key to check Iranian escalation and nuclear conflagration.</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Ben-Meir 2k7</span><span style="color: black;"> (Alon Ben-Meir, professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at NYU, 2/6/07, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”, Online)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Feeling … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> U.S. punitive measures.</span>














**__Contention Three: Clean Technology__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">U.S. transitioning to clean energy now but China controls the rare earths needed to transition. </span>**
**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Burnett 8/19</span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Sterling Burnett, a senior fellow with the National Center for Policy Analysis, “Commentary: Rare Earth Dependence,” 8/19/11, Kera News, Online, [DZ]) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Increasing the United States' … </span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and green dove.</span>


**Chinese rare earths supply cutoffs quickly collapse the green tech sector—elements are key to clean tech that solves climate change.**
**Seaman 2k10** (John, <span style="color: black;">Fellow in the Center for Asian Studies @ French Institute of International Relations, “Rare Earths and Clean Energy: Analyzing China's Upper Hand,” September 2010, Online [AL])</span>

**__The world … immediate future__**.


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 2k8</span> (Oliver Tickell. “On A Planet 4C hotter, All We Can Prepare For is Extinction” The Guardian. August 11, 2008., Online)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We need to get … hothouse Earth.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming leads to global inequality risking nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Stott 2k7 (Robin, Vice Chair @ Grayson Centre, Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, “Climate change, poverty and war”, 100:9, p. 399-402)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">These alterations … Global Commons Institute.9</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Slight temperature increases causes methane burps which cause extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Atcheson</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 2k</span><span class="TagChar" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">4</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(John, geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies, “Ticking Time Bomb,” Baltimore Sun, December 15, Online)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">There are … We have to act now</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Climate change causes environmental migration that causes Balkan and Russian instability.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Guardian 2k7</span> (Climate Wars Threaten Billions, CommonDreams, 11/5/07, Online)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A total of 46 nations … ‘It is already upon us.’</span>



**<span style="color: black;">Causes global war – Balkans are a flashpoint</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Paris 2k2</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Roland, Assistant Professor of Political Science and International Affairs at University of Colorado, Political Science Quarterly, “Kosovo and the metaphor war”, Volume 117, Issue 3, Fall, Proquest)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">At this early … is too late. </span>


**Balkan instability is the most likely cause of global war.**
**<span style="color: black;">Brzezinski 2k3 (</span>**<span style="color: black;">Zbigniew, Prof. American Foreign Policy @ Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, “Hegemonic Quicksand”, The National Interest #74, Winter 2003.)</span>
**__FOR THE next … at risk.__**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Global warming kills plankton</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng</span> **2k**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span> (Victoria, Ph.D, associated professor @ University of Texas July, Keystone Species Extinction Overview, July 2007, Online)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Plankton … will be threatened**__.__**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Phytoplankton are the foundation of the food chain and produce half of the worlds oxygen—killing them risks extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">UPI</span> **2k8** (News Service, “Acidic Oceans may tangle food chain,” June 6th, Online)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Increased carbon levels in ocean … he told UPI.</span>

















**__Contention 4 solvency__**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Near Earth Asteroids are worth trillions - these are key to a limitless future</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Lewis 97</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(John S. Lewis is a professor of planetary science at the University of Arizona’s Lunar and Planetary Laboratory, former professor </span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">of space sciences at MIT. //“Escaping the ultimate disaster--a cosmic collision.”// __Futurist,__ Jan/Feb97, Vol. 31, Issue 1. EBSCOhost. TDA)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">There is another way … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the solar system--and beyond.</span>__

**Minerals in Asteroids are key to stopping resource shortages- more minerals in space than on the entire planet.**
**Kolber 2k6**
– (Jonathan Kolber, Co-founder and Vice-President at Space Energy Access Systems “Investing in Outer Space,” Online, Oct 11th, 2006)

Yes**__, there’s … a historical footnote.__**












**Methods of extracting and processing resources from asteroids have already been conceptualized.**
**Bonsor 2k** (Kevin, Bachelors degree in Journalism from Georgia Southern University writer for How Stuff Works and Discoverynews.com, “How Asteroid Mining Will Work”, accessed from [[http://www.sps.aero/|www.sps.aero]], November 10th 2000, NB

http://www.sps.aero/Key_ComSpace_Articles/LibTech/LIB-029_How_Asteroid_Mining_Will_Work.pdf)

<span style="color: black;">Extraction and Processing …</span><span class="underline0">into structures!</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Current launch systems can be used for space mission</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Alibay No Date</span>
<span class="Underline">( Farah Alibay et.al graduate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, SURVEY, CAPTURE, RELOCATION AND EXPLORATION OF A NEAR-EARTH OBJECT, PG 13 QJ)</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Launch systems</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> were … launch systems. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In-situ resource utilization allows us to extract rocket fuels from NEOS</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sonter in 1998 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Mark J, Medical Physicist and scientific consultant providing advice on radiation protection and metallurgy to major mining companies and recipient of a large grant by the Foundation for International Non-government Development of Space (FINDS) to develop concepts for mining asteroids, “The Technical and Economic Feasibility of Mining the Near-Earth Asteroids”, accessed through nss.org, September 28th 1998, NB </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/asteroids/sonter.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Accessibility and Competitiveness … launch cost.</span>


=Negative= 

==1NC Debris== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NASA is containing debris with laser systems-but avoiding further accumulation key to effectiveness. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">SAT News Daily 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">,( “NASA Laser To Remove Space Debris?” March 17, 2011 [HT]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Available Online @ <http://www.satnews.com/cgi-bin/story.cgi?number=1202250009> </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">-affiliated …</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> or </span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">stop creating new junk."</span>**</span>

The plan will result in a cascade effect that triggers multiple collisions. This makes space unusable, turning case.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Taylor 07 (</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Michael W, Chief of the Space and International Law Division at Headquarters United States Air Force Space Command at Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Trashing the Solar System One Planet at a Time: Earth's Orbital Debris Problem. Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. Fall, 2007. Accessed via Lexis/Nexis)</span>

<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Estimates</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… technologically unfeasible. n133</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Debris pollution increases the risk of strikes on Russian early-warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis ‘4 (Jeffery, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy . Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Available Online @ <http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf>0)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This is the second …to operate safely. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Babst ‘2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, (Dean. retired government research scientist and Coordinator of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation's Accidental Nuclear War Studies Program, February ’02, “Preventing an Accidental Armageddon,” </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Available online @ <http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2000/02/00_babst_armageddon.htm></span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Although … accidental Armageddon.</span>**</span>
<span class="underline"> </span>
==<span class="underline"> </span>1NC Spending== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economy on the brink – New spending crushes growth</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rahn 11 (Richard, CATO Institute, PhD @ Colombia, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12785)JFS</span>

There is evidence … known as entitlements). 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New Spending destroys fiscal discipline</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hurt 11</span> [Robert Hurt, Virginia Congressman, “Charting A New Course Of Fiscal Discipline And Restraint,” February 14, 2011, [[http://virginiafifthwatchdog.com/2011/02/charting-a-new-course-of-fiscal-discipline-and-restraint/]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, </span><span class="Underline">the … of our country.</span>

small satellite would cost $20.5 billion.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Crowlspace 8</span> (January 20, [[http://crowlspace.com/?p=108]], accessed: 25 June 2011, JT)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Let’s call …</span> powersats viable.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">That collapses the economy</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roe 11</span> (Phil, member of the Education and Workforce Committee and Representative from Tennessee, “Cut, cap and balance: A fight toward fiscal responsibility,” 5-18, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/federal-eye/2010/05/navy_plebes_scale_herndon_monu.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Monday, the … </span> <span class="Underline">the long-term.</span>

Economic collapse leads to extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bearden 2k </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc) ET</span>
Bluntly, we foresee …, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">at least for many decades. </span>
<span class="underline"> </span>

==1NC Backstopping== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spending on alternative energy is down now </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weeks 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Linton, NPR writer and political consultant, Can U.S. Go 'Green' Even When Oil Prices Drop?, 8-28, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=96185899]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 7-3-11, JL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">There … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">executive officer, said.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Alternative energy development leads to a scare of energy dependence amongst oil exporting countries – this causes lowers prices and causes the market to flood with cheap oil which jacks solvency</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Longmuir and Alhajji 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Dr. Gavin, consulting petroleum engineer, petroleum appraiser, and Dr. A.F. Alhajji, associate professor of economics, “West should consider ramifications of its off-oil rhetoric”, Oil and Gas Journal, 2/12/07)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oil exporters</span>__**</span> __**could** **…**__ cheap fuel with which <span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to expand heavy industries</span>__**</span>**.**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spending on alternative energy is down now </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weeks 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Linton, NPR writer and political consultant, Can U.S. Go 'Green' Even When Oil Prices Drop?, 8-28, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=96185899]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 7-3-11, JL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">There are signs …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> executive officer, said.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Alternative energy development leads to a scare of energy dependence amongst oil exporting countries – this causes lowers prices and causes the market to flood with cheap oil which jacks solvency</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Longmuir and Alhajji 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Dr. Gavin, consulting petroleum engineer, petroleum appraiser, and Dr. A.F. Alhajji, associate professor of economics, “West should consider ramifications of its off-oil rhetoric”, Oil and Gas Journal, 2/12/07)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oil exporters</span>__**</span>__**…**__ <span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> heavy industries</span>__**</span>**.**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Energy independence causes instability in oil producing countries</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Longmuir and Alhajji 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Dr. Gavin, consulting petroleum engineer, petroleum appraiser, and Dr. A.F. Alhajji, associate professor of economics, “West should consider ramifications of its off-oil rhetoric”, Oil and Gas Journal, 2/12/07)</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**__Even if …__**  industrial countries.


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lower Oil Prices causes Middle East War – Iran Nuclearization, Saudi Arabian Civil War, and OPEC economy</span>
**Arena Resources 7** (“Why Flooding the Worldwide Market Place with Oil Will Not Stop Iran from Achieving their Nuclear Ambitions”, Online, 1/11/2007)
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">OPEC … Iranian economy.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Middle East conflict causes global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinbach 2002</span> – Analyst, Center for Research on Globalisation , Online
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Meanwhile, … world conflagration."(44)</span>


==1NC Science K== 



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan is based in a techno-scientific understanding of being that sees the cosmos as malleable and controllable by humanity. This rational project is grounded in a drive to gene silence integral features of life by depriving life of its malignant properties such as conflict and antagonism. Their attempt to create perfect world through an advancement of technology depreciates the world we actually live in resulting in nihilism.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diken 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Bulent, Senior Lecturer at Lancaster University Department of Sociology, “Nihilism”, pg. 3, NB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">I repeat, moderate … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> history of the</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">West.-</span>__
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span class="Underline"> </span></span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their scientific logic elevates causality and calculability as a higher value, for these are key to eliminating integral features of our existence that are deemed unfavorable. The politics of this society are based in a hatred of our existence and culminate in self-destruction.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Owen and Ridley 2k </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(David, assistant director of the Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton, Aaron, senior lecture and associate director ofthe Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton, “Dramatis Personae,” in //Why Nietzsche Still?// ed. Alan Schrift, pp. 149-151]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The modern condition … </span>____bequeathed by the ascetic ideal__
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The dark side is of science is reflected in its attempt to remove malignant properties of life. This hegemonic mode of thinking necessitates a nihilistic project of mastery that seeks to dominate all of nature. This drive for mastery solidifies a suicidal logic that will ensure nuclear war, ecological catastrophes, and extinction.</span>**</span>
**Gare 05** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Dr. Arran, Professor of Philosophy and Cultural Inquiry @ Swinburne University, “Mathematics, Explanation, and Reductionism: Exposing the Roots of The Egyptianism of European Civilization”, featured in Cosmos and History: The Journal of Natural and Social Philsophy Volume 1, April 2005, NB)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.cosmosandhistory.org/index.php/journal/article/view/6/11]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The hidden **… of the world**.’23</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This drive to suppress suffering and antagonism through scientific rationality devalues existence. Instead of trying to gene splice malignant properties of life in favor of a denaturalized perfect world, we must affirm the world as it is, and accept the bad and the good. Voting Negative is to reject the ascetic techno-scientific method of understanding the world and instead affirm all of existence, forwards backwards and eternally.</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turnali 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Aydan, “Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World”, Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Issue 26, 2003)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The craving for … </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of the fly-bottle” (//PI// §309)</span>





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]