[[toc]]
**For aff cites, e-mail mynosha@gmail.com**
**For neg cites, e-mail avi.kejriwal@gmail.com**

=Affirmative= 
==1AC USSG - Georgetown== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SSA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">First, All Qualified experts agree – space debris is at the tipping point – left unchecked it collapses our space assets</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Telegraph 2k11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(“Space so full of junk that a satellite collision could destroy communications on Earth,” February, pg online @ http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/Space-so-full-of-junk-that-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html //ghs-bprp)//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space so full of junk … Cup next month in Johannesburg."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Uncontrolled debris causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Scheetz 6, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Law at Georgetown (Lori, J.D. Candidate at Georgetown University Law Center, "Infusing Environmental Ethics into Space WEapons Dialogue," Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Fall, 19 Geo. Int'l Envt. L. Rev. 57)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Despite the fact taht the...well as military purposes." n90</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, Situational Awareness is at a CRITICAL Stage Now – An International Regime is Necessary but lack of a new dedicated civilian organization means efforts will fail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bennett 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Recent events have underscored the … the USAF as a collaborative partner.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Plan advances a space legal regime in the short term and builds global support to solve debris and collisions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hays 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” December 13, 2010, NDU Press Chapter 28, pg online @ [http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]//greenhill-au)//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Most spacefaring actors understand the … care, and follow established procedures. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space law prevents extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hays 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” December 13, 2010, NDU Press Chapter 28, pg online @ [http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]greenhill-au)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Other impediments to further developing … improve our odds for survival.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And the plan results in Active Debris Removal – U.S. Efforts are Key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Weeden 2k9</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Brian Weeden, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena. His wealth of technical knowledge has established him as a thought leader for providing critical analysis that supports development of space policy on a global scale. Prior to joining the Foundation, Mr. Weeden served nine years on active duty as an officer in the United States Air Force working in space and ICBM operations. As part of U.S. Strategic Command's Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), Captain Weeden directed the orbital analyst training program and developed tactics, techniques and procedures for improving space situational awareness. In his current role as Technical Advisor, Mr. Weeden conducts research on global space situational awareness, space traffic management, protection of space assets, and prevention of conflict in space. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455 //ghs-ef)//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">More recently, we have also … ensure that no collisions happen.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And developing space law from the plan enables protection of intellectual property for debris removal mechanisms which solves innovation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Weeden 2k11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Brian, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena, February 1, 2011, “Overview of the legal and policy challenges of orbital debris removal” Space Policy 27 (2011) 38e43, pg online @ sciencedirectgreenhill-au)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">3.8. Removal of debris objects … chances for misperceptions and mistrust.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space IPR Spills over terrestrially</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Brisibe 2k6</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Tare, PhD and Legal Services and International Cooperation Head at the Universtity Of Mississippi School of Law, JOURNAL OF SPACE Law, “Outer Space Activities and Intellectual Property Protection in Nigeria” Volume 32, No. 2, Winter 2006, pg online//greenhill-au)//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It has been argued that … article and is not addressed.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Domestic and International space IPR enforcement restores US trade</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Reuters 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(“US says protecting IP rights a top trade priority” April 26, 2010, pg online @ [http://www.theglobalipcenter.com/news/us-says-protecting-ip-rights-top-trade-priority]greenhill-au)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">"The United States has … Chambers' Global Intellectual Property Center.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Trade is inevitable – it’s only a question of whether it’s cooperative or not – US trade leadership is vital to prevent trading blocs that result in global conflicts</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**Bergsten 9**7 - Director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics & former Assistant Secretary for International Affairs at the Treasury Department, 9-27-97 (C. Fred, “America and the World,” The Economist, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291//arnav-kejriwal)//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Third, American leadership has been … staying power in other respects.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Spicer 96</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(British Member of Parliament and Chairperson of the European Research Group, Michael, The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, New York: St. Martin’s Press, p. 121)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The choice facing the West … a premium in the years ahead.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Tech innovation prevents extinction – expands the Earth’s carrying capacity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Heaberlin 4 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Scott W, Nuclear Safety and Technology Applications Product Line @ Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, “A Case for Nuclear-Generated Electricity,” Battelle Press, 2004) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">*** we don’t endorse the gendered language if any in this card**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cohen looked at all the … to a happier place, a better place. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Only the plan creates an Effective SSA Program</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bennett 2k10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">3. A US Space Guard (USSG). … Commandant of the Space Guard.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, a U.S.-Led cooperative SSA establishes a legal regime that prevents miscalc and creates international cooperation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Weeden 2k9</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Brian Weeden, is a technical consultant for the Secure World Foundation and former U.S. Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455 //ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SSA as the Foundation International … the benefit of all humankind</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Plan Text</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its civil space situational awareness by creating a Space Guard.</span>**

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Air Force </span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">First, it’s Overstretched Now – a new focus on warfighting is critical to air power and deterrence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Moseley 2k7</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(18th Chief of Staff @ … is essential to victory. Pg. 2-9 //1ac//</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, Space Services Gut the Air Force’s Warfighting Mission and stunts its transition to aerospace power – re-balancing priorities is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">McKinley 2k</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @ http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Organizations are created to accomplish a … tensions will and must emerge. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, an Effective Air Force Prevents Conflicts Over India-Pakistan, South China Sea and Deters CBW and Cruise Missile Attacks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Tellis et al ‘98</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @ http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf //ghs-ef)//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">REGIONAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR … the revolution in military affairs.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, South China Sea war draws in major powers and escalates</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Waldron 97</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Arthur, professor of Strategy and Policy at the Naval War College Commentary, 3-1, http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Then there is Southeast Asia, … Japan--or the United States.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, so does Indo-Pak nuclear war – computer models prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">GSN 10 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Computer modeling suggests a nuclear exchange … University of Colorado at Boulder.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, even a RISK of our scenario triggers World War III</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Knight Ridder 2k </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Jonathon S. Landay, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, 3-11, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Few if any experts think … are elements for potential disaster."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Finally, the plan solves – it re-balances Air Force priorities and ensures space services get their own funding and support agency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">McKinley 2k</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @ http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States Space Guard … exploit space for national benefit.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NASA Credibility</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NASA is spread too thin--gaps and structural problems make any form of progress impossible</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**Bennett 11** (James C. Bennett, Adjunct Senior Fellow of the Hudson Institute; author of The Anglosphere Challenge, "Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space", Winter 2011, The New Atlantis, Written for George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space//ghs-avi)//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Yet the notion that there … are miniscule compared to NASA’s.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NASA credibility is key to effective Earth sciences solves the environment and extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**Killeen 5** (PhD, Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It is clear after decades … ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Environmental destruction is the biggest cause of civilization collapse, instability and war--thousands of years of history proves</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**Diamond 3** (Jared Diamond is a professor of geography and of environmental health sciences at UCLA. His book Guns, Germs, and Steel: the Fates of Human Societies won a 1998 Pulitzer Prize, "The Last Americans: Environmental Collapse and the End of Civilization", June 2003, Harper's Magazine, www.mindfully.org/Heritage/2003/Civilization-Collapse-EndJun03.htmghs-avi)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">One of the disturbing facts … methods, and motives of leaders.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The plan solves--it reduces bureaucracy, increases coordination and refocuses NASA’s attention towards science and technological development</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**Engineering Ethics 11** (Written by a consulting engineer and who teaches engineering courses at Texas State University; citing James C. Bennett, "From NASA to USSG: Fixing the U. S. Space Programs", 6/20/11, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">engineeringethicsblog.blogspot.com/2011/06/from-nasa-to-ussg-fixing-u-s-space.html//ghs-avi)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The domination by NASA of … do the right thing about it. </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Solvency </span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The plan establishes a Space Guard built on Civilian SSA – that spills-over to shift functions from other agencies</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bennett 2k11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” pg online @ http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space //ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">3. New responsibilities. In addition … its chronic span-of-control issues.</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]