=November - December= 
==NEG== 
===Kant NC=== 
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">The value is morality as implied by the resolution.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The only place in which a moral obligation could actually be derived from is reason. We as humans have the ability to question any other source of authority by asking why they are an authority</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">. **Velleman[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]** </span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we have ...</span>act for reasons.

----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Indeed</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">, in order to understand moral actions as obligatory we must be able understand the reasons for morality as binding to ourselves. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Strom[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now, the ―ought-ought...</span>about good people.


----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The only place in which a moral obligation could actually be derived from is reason. We as humans have the ability to question any other source of authority by asking why they are an authority</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">. **Velleman[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]** </span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we have seen, ...reason to act for reasons. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, the burden is to prove that practical reason can provide a basis for an obligation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C1. Kantianism does not derive rights or moral laws because it relies on morality being self-legislating. This type of ethics relies on us giving reasons to ourselves for our moral rules. **However,** self-legislation cannot actually provide moral rules as there is no absolute authority in giving a law to oneself.**Ridely and Alvarez[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|[2]]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">We have noted, in the ....</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> any obvious content.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> even if self-generated moral laws actually do bind our action, any maxims prescribed commit the is-ought fallacy. Just because moral laws //do// bind action does not imply that they //ought// to bind action. **Moore[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]** explains</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">And</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> Kant </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">also...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">ought to be.</span>__**

----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Principia Ethica. GE Moore.</span>
=November - December= 
==AFF== 
===Poverty AC 2.0=== 
I affirm and value morality.

The standard is maximizing individual flourishing.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Human subjectivity cannot be conceptualized outside of our basic connections to others and the social conditions that enable autonomy. Human identity is dependent on recognition by the other. **Honneth[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">According to this theory...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">person to collapse.</span>__**

----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Axel Honneth [University of Frankfurt], “Integrity and Disrespect: Principles of a Conception of Morality Based on the Theory of Recognition,” //Political Theory//, Vol. 20, No. 2 (May, 1992), pp. 187-201. Sage Publications, inc. http://www.jstor.org/stable/192001</span>

<span style="color: black;">Moral recognition thus consists in the recognition of autonomous flourishing. If each of us depends on the recognition of our qualities and capacities to form our identity, a norm of mutual recognition logically follows. However, autonomy is not about the absence of constraints but rather shaping constraints so as to best facilitate individual flourishing. **Keller[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]**</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Christianity is supposedly...</span>or a grumpy one

----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Keller, Timothy (2008-02-14). The Reason for God . Riverhead. Kindle Edition.</span>

Thus a sense of social justice aimed at fostering individual flourishing is essential for morality. **<span style="color: black;">Honneth[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] and Anderson</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The key initial...</span>central to autonomy.6

----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Axel Honneth [professor of philosophy at the University of Frankfurt, Germany and director of the //Institut für Sozialforschung// (</span><span style="color: #042da4; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institute_for_Social_Research|Institute for Social Research]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)] and </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Joel Anderson. “Autonomy, Vulnerability, Recognition, and Justice.” 2004 </span>

Conceptualizing the self as separate and independent from others creates a self-perpetuating cycle of narcissism in which we conceptualize others as mere instruments to our parochial ends. **Charles Taylor[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">This is undoubtedly...</span>our social arrangements.

----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Charles Taylor [Prof. of Philosophy and Political Science, McGill University], __The Ethics of Authenticity__, Cambridge: Harvard University Press (1991), pp. 58-59.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Judith Butler**[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] explains how treating the lives of others as mere instruments permits indefinite violence:</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">If violence is ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">but interminably spectral.</span>__**

----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Butler, Judith. (Prof at Berkeley) //Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence// (Verso: 2004) p. 33-34</span>


**Contention 1:** Individuals have a moral obligation to assist people living in extreme poverty.

The obligations we have toward those afflicted by extreme poverty uniquely generates a moral obligation to intervene. While there are close calls as to what constitutes a sufficient level of flourishing, those in poverty do not even have the opportunity to exercise autonomy. Thus ignoring the needs of the global poor could never meet the standard.

**Sub-Point A:** Poverty causes extreme suffering and degradation, which denies people the ability to flourish and thus fails to recognize them as morally relevant subjects.

Extreme poverty is a state of both unsatisfied basic needs and a lack of human dignity. **Singer 1[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A few years ago...</span>beyond bare survival


----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Peter Singer [Professor of Bioethics, Princeton University], __The Life You Can Save__, New York: Random House (2009), p. 5-6.</span>

Such poverty is widespread and often fatal. **Singer 2**[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">In wealthy societies...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">children and adults.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]Peter Singer [Professor of Bioethics, Princeton University], __The Life You Can Save__, New York: Random House (2009), p. 8-9.</span>

Failure to address poverty as the most basic impediment to flourishing is thus a self-evident moral failure.

**Sub-Point B:** Disregarding our responsibility for those afflicted by poverty fails to honor the fact that our identities are inextricably tied to the moral history of our communities.

Wealthy western powers have long exploited the developing world, using people as instruments to economic and political gain rather than honoring our fundamental interdependency. **Sachs[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">When it comes...</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">to pay the price.</span>**

----
[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] <span style="color: #262626; font-size: 6pt;">Jeffery Sachs--2006 [American economist and Director of The Earth Institute at Columbia University] "The End of Poverty: Economic Possibilities for Our Time" New York: Penguin Publishing, Print Copy, pp. 189-190 AT</span>

Failure to recognize our responsibility to redress these injustices is to deny our place in the moral community that defines who we are. We thus undermine our own ability to flourish as social beings when we deny our burdened history. **Sandel[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] 2:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Of course, not everyone...</span>may come with it.


----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Michael J. Sandel [Professor of Political Philosophy, Harvard University], __Justice: What’s the Right Thing To Do?__, New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux (2009), p. 234-235 AT</span>
=November - December= 
==AFF== 
===Poverty AC=== 

I affirm and value morality. The standard is maximizing individual preferences for three reasons.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">maximizing preference satisfaction is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. **Cummiskey**[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] ‘90:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">We must not obscure...</span>to save many.

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">
</span>
----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810. </span>

**Second**, the fundamental logical properties of moral words are that they are universalizable and prescriptive. **R. M. Hare[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">My hope then is **that...**</span>and (//a fortiori//) ‘must’.
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> R. M. Hare [Prof. of Moral Philosophy, University of Oxford], __Moral Thinking: Its Levels, Method and Point__. Oxford: Clarendon Press (1981), p. 20-22.</span>

This means that agents must decide whether to endorse maxims regardless of their own unique position. If the maxim would require anyone to do the same thing in a similar circumstance, the actor must consider whether or not they would will that action if they were in the place of another person. To generate a universalizable maxim, we must maximize preferences. **Hare[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]** **2:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I mention these problems...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">is to maximize satisfactions.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], //Freedom and Reason// (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 122-123.</span>

**Third**, the evolutionary need to justify choices to others requires adopting an impartial evaluation of preferences. **Peter Singer[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The transformation must...</span>as we shall soon see


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Peter Singer [Prof. of Bioethics, Princeton University], __The Expanding Circle: Ethics and Sociobiology__. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux (1981), p. 92-94.</span>

Maximizing preferences is the most defensible approach from an impartial point of view. **Peter Singer[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] 2:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Reasoning in ethics is...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">I ought to take.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Peter Singer [Prof. of Bioethics, Princeton University], __The Expanding Circle: Ethics and Sociobiology__. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux (1981), p. 92-94.</span>

Thus the affirmative burden is to show that an individual obligation to assist those in need would maximize preferences. While there are close calls under a utilitarian framework, it is axiomatic that we ought to choose actions that substantially reduce suffering and have negligible costs. **Peter Singer 3**[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">My next point...</span>in the same position.


----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Peter Singer [Prof. Bioethics at Princeton] “Famine, Affluence, and Morality” Philosophy and Public Affairs, vol. 1, no. 1 Spring 1972</span>

**I contend that individuals have a moral obligation to assist those afflicted by poverty.**

Extreme poverty is a state of both unsatisfied basic needs and a lack of human dignity. **Singer 4**[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A few years ago...</span>beyond bare survival. 3


----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Peter Singer [Professor of Bioethics, Princeton University], __The Life You Can Save__, New York: Random House (2009), p. 5-6.</span>

Poverty in the least developed nations is orders of magnitude more severe than is experienced even by the poor in the United States. **Singer 5**[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">In wealthy societies...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">children and adults.</span>__**


----
[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Peter Singer [Professor of Bioethics, Princeton University], __The Life You Can Save__, New York: Random House (2009), p. 8-9.</span>

Despite these figures, the United States gives a tiny amount of foreign aid. **Singer 6**[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**:**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Asked whether the...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">international aid league. </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">16</span>