[[toc]]
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For AFF cites email Oskar at: [[mailto:tauringtraxler@gmail.com|tauringtraxler@gmail.com]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For NEG cites email Cole at: [[mailto:chettyboy032@gmail.com|chettyboy032@gmail.com]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One thing to note: Case cites are really annoying to post, but if you want them, email Cole.</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==Slaughterhouse-Five AFF== 
== == 
**Read from the book:**
Over the years, people I’ve met have often asked me what I’m working on, and I’ve usually replied that the main thing was a book about Dresden.
I said that to Harrison Starr, the movie-maker, one time, and he raised his eyebrows and inquired, “Is it an anti-war book?”
“Yes,” I said. “I guess.”
“You know what I say to people when I hear they’re writing anti-war books?”
“No. What //do// you say Harrison Starr?”
“I say, ‘Why don’t you write an anti-//glacier// book instead?’”
What he meant, of course, was that there would always be wars that they were as easy to stop as glaciers. I believe that too.
And even if wars didn’t keep coming like glaciers, there would still be plain old death.

The most important thing that I learned on Tralfamadore was that when a person dies, he only appears to die. He is still very much alive in the past, so it is very silly for people to cry at his funeral. All moments, past, present, and future, always have existed, always will exist. The Tralfamadorians can look at all the different moments just the way we can look at a stretch of the Rocky Mountains, for instance. They can see how permanent all the moments are, and they can look at any moment that interests them. It is just an illusion we have here on earth that one moment follows another, like beads on a string, and that once a moment is gone it is gone forever.
“When a Tralfamadorian sees a corpse, all he thinks is that the dead person is in bad condition in that particular moment, but that the same person is just fine in plenty of other moments. Now, when I myself hear that somebody is dead, I simply shrug and say what the Tralfamadorians say about dead people, which is ‘So it goes’”

Billy is speaking before a capacity audience in a baseball park. Billy predicts his own death within an hour. He laughs about it, invites the crowd to laugh with him. “It is high time I was dead," he says. “Many years ago,” he said, “a certain man promised to have me killed. He is an old man now, living not far from here. He has read all the publicity associated with my appearance in your fair city. He is insane. Tonight he will keep his promise.”
There are protests from the crowd.
Billy Pilgrim rebukes them. “If you protest, if you think that death is a terrible thing, then you have not understood a word I’ve said.” Now he closes his speech as he closes every speech – with these words: “Farewell, hello, farewell, hello.”
There are police around him as he leaves the stage. They are there to protect him from the crush of popularity.
“No, no,” says Billy serenely. “It is time for you to go home to your wives and children, and it is time for me to be dead for a little while – and then live again.”
So Billy experiences death for a while. It is simply violet light and a hum. There isn’t anybody else there. Not even Billy Pilgrim is there.

**Thus, we present the following plan:**
**The United States federal government should launch a staffed mission to Tralfamadore.**

**Vonnegut had it right all those years ago when he wrote about Billy Pilgrim’s time tripping – there is no such thing as death. All moments always are, always will be, and always have been. Experiences of “death” simply result in the experience of more life.**

**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Wolf 98</span>** (Dr. Fred Alan Wolf, Ph. D. in theoretical physics, National Book Award winner, teaches at universities of London and Paris, “The Soul and Quantum Physics,” 1998)

Q. <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Some people</span> may <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">wonder</span>, <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">… time/space dimension of reality.</span>

**Despite this, status quo attempt to answer the question “who are we” fall far short of the truth because of their obsession with the body. Your high school biology teacher was wrong. We are not just a collection of cells nor are we bound to our sphere of physical reality.**
**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Lanza 2010</span>** (Robert Lanza is considered one of the leading scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Who Are We? Experiments Suggest You're Not Who You Think" http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/spirituality-who-are-we-e_b_551719.html)

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">"Who in the world … </span>only rude, but <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">difficult indeed</span>.

**This obsession with the physical, that which is out there that we can see, and touch precludes involvement with the soul – we lose all sentiment in favor of a logic demanding to know what is REALLY out there.**

**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Wolf 98</span>** (Dr. Fred Alan Wolf, Ph. D. in theoretical physics, National Book Award winner, teaches at universities of London and Paris, “The Soul and Quantum Physics,” 1998)

Q. <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Many scientists question whether … </span>up from within your consciousness

**Loss of the soul and psyche makes a mindset of destruction inevitable. Human life is rendered disposable, making existence meaningless.**

**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Davis ‘1</span>** (Walter A, Professor of English at Ohio State University, Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative. State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96 AM)

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">It is never enough</span> however. … <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Kant’s struggle with the sublime.</span>

**This loss of the soul is an a priori impact. Our consciousness shapes our understanding of the outside world and frames reality.**

**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Jung 06</span>** (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, The Undiscovered Self, New American Library, New York, 81-85)

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Separation from his instinctual nature … and can happen to everyone.</span>

**Death is not an event of “impact” because life is infinite – as are time and space. Although there may be a destruction of the body, our 20 watts of energy are omnipresent in the past, present, and future. We should accept life as an infinite cycle in order to avoid superfluous grief because there is no such thing as a complete loss of being.**

**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Lanza 2009</span>** (Robert Lanza is considered one of the leading scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Does Death Exist? New Theory Says 'No'", http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-new-theo_b_384515.html)

One well-known aspect of … <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the next time I see her.</span>

**Our performance of the slaughterhouse five narrative allows for transcendence of the status quo and acceptance of the Tralfamadorian understanding of death and time.**

**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Coleman 2008</span>** (Martin Coleman, Professor at Purdue University in Indianapolis, “The Meaninglessness of Coming Unstuck in Time, 2008)

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Billy Pilgrim’s denial takes the … </span>that separates knowledge and experience.

**Finally, all of their disads are terminally non unique – robot development means that at one point in time absence of the human body on earth is inevitable.**
**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Lanza 2010</span>** (Robert Lanza is considered one of the leading scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Will Machines Take Over the World? The Scientific Turning Point" http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/science-technology-will-m_b_569948.html

Physicists believe the "Theory of … <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">our desire to achieve perfection.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mars 1AC </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Contention One: Inherency**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A) NASA’s era of human spaceflight is over and several thousand jobs are about to be lost.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">The Sunday Telegraph</span>__ (London),** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">June 19, 2011</span>__**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(“Final lift-off”, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/8584402/Final-lift-off-excitement-but-bitterness-inside-Nasa-at-last-chapter-of-the-shuttles-thrilling-space-odyssey.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For every crew … when - and how."</span>

===Plan Text=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Thus, we present the following plan:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The United States federal government should implement the Mars Direct plan.**</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Contention Two: Scientific Leadership**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**First--)A Human mission to Mars adds 500,000 STEM jobs to the economy and reinvigorates student interest**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Choi 11</span>__</span> (Charles Q. Choi – journalist for Astrobiology Magazine, 2/10/11, “Red Planet for Sale? How Corporate Sponsors Could Send Humans to Mars,” Space.com,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Selling Mars The plan</span>… television rights and so on."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Second--) The United States is falling deadly short on its STEM goals. Increasing STEM jobs and interest is crucial to competing in the global market and maintaining scientific leadership.**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Schiavelli 2008</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span> Dr. Mel, professor of chemistry and president of the Harrisburg University of Science and Technology in Pennsylvania. “STEM Education Benefits All.” http://www.harrisburgu.net/about/president/Mel-op-ed-NASA.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">NASA’s</span> successes and failures,<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">...the global economy at risk</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Third--) The climate is ripe but politics are not enough. US scientific leadership is the key path for disarmament. This eliminates all nuclear war and escalation.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Dickson</span>__</span>, director for Scidev.net, <span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(David, SciDev Net, 5-7, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scidev.net/en/editorials/nuclear-disarmament-is-top-priority-for-science-diplomacy.html]]</span>, 6-22-11, SRF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The political…</span><span class="underline"> good place to start.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Fourth--)U.S. scientific strength is a crucial tool of soft power and diplomacy. STEM leadership is pivotal to maintaining a healthy economy.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Fedoroff</span>__</span>, Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State, <span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Nina, Testimony Before the House Science Subcommittee on Research and Science Education , http://gop.science.house.gov/Media/Hearings/research08/April2/fedoroff.pdf, 4-2, pgs. 1-3, SRF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers…<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">need for engagement more paramount</span><span class="underline">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fifth--)Soft Power is necessary for economic health and is the only medium for solving AIDS, Poverty, International Crime, Terrorism, and Climate Change**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Jervis 09</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To say that the system is … off against the others</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sixth--) The structural violence from poverty causes 14 to 19 million deaths per year which would be equivalent to ongoing nuclear war. Poverty is the root cause of behavioral violence.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gilligan 96</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, “Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes”, p. 191-196]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The deadliest form of violence ...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> eachother, as cause to effect.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Contention Three: Technology**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**First--)A Mars mission catalyzes technological innovation which solves water and other resource scarcity as well as strengthening medicine crucial to stopping cardiovascular disease.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Rampelotto 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Department of Biology, Federal University of Santa Maria (UFSM), Brazil. (Pabula Henrique, “Why Send Humans to Mars? Looking Beyond Science”[[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars151.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">engineering challenges ...</span> human`s quality of life.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Second--)Water scarcity threatens extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">NASCA 04</span>__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[“Water shortages – only a matter of time,” National Association for Scientific and Cultural Appreciation, http://www.nasca.org.uk/Strange_relics_/water/water.html]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Water is one … no obvious answer.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Third--) Cardiovascular disease kills 1 in 4 in the US and costs over $300 billion annually**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">CDC 10</span>__** [Center for Disease Control and Prevention, “Heart Disease Facts” December 21, 2010 http://www.cdc.gov/heartdisease/facts.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">America's Heart Disease Burden</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">In 2006, 631,636 people …</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> and lost productivity</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fourth--)The plan spurs new tech for fusion based energy.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Underline0">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Zubrin</span>****<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> 6/28/20</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">11 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">– president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, Epilogue)//DT//</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">A</span> __prime__ <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">example ...</span> __planet as well.__//</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fifth--)Fusion based energy is the only replacement for soon to be exhausted fossil fuels. Fusion technologies solve several catastrophes posed by resource wars, economic hardship, and global warming.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">SMITH 2005</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Chris Llewyn, Euratom/UKAEA Fusion Association, Culham Science Centre, Fusion Engineering and Design, #74)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//The International Energy … economical fusion power stations?//</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Contention Four: The Red Planet**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**First--) Overpopulation is an imminent threat. It causes devastation including resource scarcity, climate change, misery, and will inevitably cause extinction.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steve </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Connor</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, January 20</span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">06</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Science editor in the Independent newspaper, Overpopulation ‘is main threat to planet’, The Independent, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/overpopulation-is-main-threat-to-planet-521925.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Climate change and …of human misery.</span>"//</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Second--) Mars is the ONLY option for continued survival. We must become a two planet species to avoid inevitable extinction. A Mars mission spurs exploration.**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Schulze-Makuch and Davies</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, October-November,</span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2010</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Dirk Ph.D (School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University) Paul Ph.D (Beyond Center, Arizona State University) “**<span style="color: black;">To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars</span>****”** [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">There are several … for all humanity. </span>//</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Third--) Mars can solve overpopulation – the resources are already there and processes for mining and extracting are feasible.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hender 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – University of Adelaide, School of Mechanical Engineering (Matthew “Colonization: a permanent habitat for the colonization of Mars” [[http://digital.library.adelaide.edu.au/dspace/handle/2440/61315]] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">It has been ...</span> __production of food.__//</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fourth--) Plan snowballs into further colonization of space, ensuring survival**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Rapp 2007</span>__** (Donald, PhD – Chemical Physics, Human Missions to Mars: Enabling Technologies for Exploring the Red Planet, SpringerLink Online Book)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Human missions to ...</span> of the dream.//</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Contention Five: Solvency**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**First--) Plan would put us on Mars by 2016. We have the technology and costs are not excessive.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Zubrin 11</span>__ -** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">former Chairman of the National Space Society, PhD Nuclear Engineering, President of Mars Society & Pioneer Astronautics (Robert, “How We Can Fly to Mars in This Decade—And on the Cheap”, Wall Street Journal Online, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703730804576317493923993056.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Nothing in this … Red Planet by 2016</span>__.__//</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Second--) Mars Direct is quickest, safest, and least expensive.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Underline0">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Zubrin 6/28/2011</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.2-3 )</span>DT</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sorting in the …<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> found on Mars</span>__.__</span>
==Hopkins STEM Advantage== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Scenario One is the economy –** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**First--) A Human mission to Mars adds 500,000 STEM jobs to the economy and reinvigorates student interest** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Choi 11</span>__</span> (Charles Q. Choi – journalist for Astrobiology Magazine, 2/10/11, “Red Planet for Sale? How Corporate Sponsors Could Send Humans to Mars,” Space.com,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Selling Mars The</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span>and so on."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Second--) now is key – job creation is critical to avoiding economic collapse**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #111111;">Lucas, June 23rd </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://www.edmondsun.com/opinion/x1277745323/Job-creation-is-key-to-restoring-America-s-economy|Job creation is key to restoring America’s economy]], Rep. Frank Lucas [[http://www.edmondsun.com/|The Edmond Sun]], June 23, 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://www.edmondsun.com/opinion/x1277745323/Job-creation-is-key-to-restoring-America-s-economy]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="color: #111111; font-size: 8pt;">EDMOND —</span><span style="color: #111111;"> __It is__ … </span><span style="color: #111111; font-size: 8pt;">America more competitive.</span></span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Third--) US economy is key to global economy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Federal Reserve** August 24, 20**11**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.federalreserve.gov/pf/pdf/pf_4.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chapter 4 The Federal Reserve in the International Sphere</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Federal Reserve’s … emanate from abroad.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fourth--) Global economic collapse causes nuclear extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Broward 9</span> ((Member of Triond) http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="underline0">Now its </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span><span class="underline0"> the 21st century.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Scenario Two is scientific leadership –**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**First--) The United States is falling deadly short on its STEM goals. Increasing STEM jobs and interest is crucial to competing in the global market and maintaining scientific leadership.**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Schiavelli 2008</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span> Dr. Mel, professor of chemistry and president of the Harrisburg University of Science and Technology in Pennsylvania. “STEM Education Benefits All.” [[http://www.harrisburgu.net/about/president/Mel-op-ed-NASA.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">NASA’s</span> successes and … <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">economy at risk</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Second--) The climate is ripe but politics are not enough. US scientific leadership is the key path for disarmament. This eliminates all nuclear war and escalation.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Dickson</span>__</span>, director for Scidev.net, <span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>__</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(David, SciDev Net, 5-7, [[http://www.scidev.net/en/editorials/nuclear-disarmament-is-top-priority-for-science-diplomacy.html]], 6-22-11, SRF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The political climate </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span> place to start.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: black;">Third--) it’s try or die – extinction is inevitable without science-based, multilateral cooperation.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__Sackett__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, former Chief Scientist for Australia, </span>**__10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, [[http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Imagine for a … sustain these links.</span>

==India Cooperation 1AC== 
===**Contention One: Inherency**=== 

**No Commercial Space Launch Agreement now – export issues are blocking it**
**Johnson**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Indian Express Columnist, </span>**2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (T.A., “No pact likely on US commercial satellite launch by ISRO”, Indian Express, accessed: 6/22/11, [[http://www.indianexpress.com/news/No-pact-likely-on-US-commercial-satellite-launch-by-ISRO/705828]], CQ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bangalore : </span>__With the__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… spokesperson S Satish said.</span>

**And, the CSLA is critical to foster broad cooperation between India and the US**
**Brown, 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter (is a Maine-based freelance writer who has specialized in satellite technology for more than two decades. He is a former senior multimedia editor for “Via Satellite” magazine; has written about the role of satellites in major disasters for “Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness”, a journal of the American Medical Association, among other publications. His coverage of Asian-related satellite developments has appeared in “Asia Times Online” as well as “Japan Security Watch), "India and US build stronger ties in space", August 7,2009, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/KH07Df02.html. 6/22/11.JD</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Rajagopalan, … USML affecting China. </span>

===**Contention Two: Space Industry**=== 

**U.S. Launch industry is tanking in the status quo – no revenue**
**S.I.A. 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Industry group, “State of the Satellite Industry Report”, [[http://www.sia.org/IndustryReport.htm]], 6/20/10, accessed 6/20/11) JER</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 2011 State … updated in August 2011. </span>

**And, launch prices make the current Industrial base unsustainable**
**Hill, 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeffery, Satellite News, Interviewing Phillip Spector, Intelsat’s Executive Vice President, “Intelsat's Spector: CSIS Findings Crucial to Fix U.S. Commercial Launch Options”, Satellite News, August 4th, Lexis, CQ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Satellite News: </span>__Do__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… commercial launch options.</span>

**And, Other Countries are outpacing the US Space Industry – developing international ties is key**
**Hill, 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeffery, Satellite News, “Futron Index Shows U.S. Space Competitiveness Lead Diminishing”, Satellite News, July 21st, Lexis, CQ)</span>

__While the United__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… with 18 percent.</span>

**The US Space Industry is reliant on Launch Services – Pricing overhaul is necessary**
<span class="Underline">**Berteau et al**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, April 30, 20</span><span class="Underline">**10 (**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">CENTER FOR STRATEGIC & INTERNATIONAL STUDIES, “National Security and the Commercial Space Sector Initial Analysis and Evaluation of Options for Improving Commercial Access to Space”, A Report of the CSIS Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group, David J. Berteau is Senior Adviser and Director of the CSIS Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group. Gregory Kiley is a Senior Associate at CSIS, focusing on national security and economics. Guy Ben-Ari is Deputy Director and Fellow with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS. Brian Green is the director of strategic force assessments at Systems Planning and Analysis. Joshua Hartman is a Senior Fellow with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program. Gary Powell is a Senior Associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS. Stephanie Sanok is a Senior Fellow at CSIS, working on acquisition reform, export controls, and a variety of international security projects. Tara Callahan is the Project Manager of the CSIS Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group. Lindsey Ohmit is a Research Intern with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS. Thomas Patterson is a Research Associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Gregory Sanders is a research associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS. (OTT))</span>

__The United States relies__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> __tier industrial base.__

**International Cooperation is critical to shore up the space industrial base – India can assure launch access and reduce pressure on domestic launch capabilities**
**Berteau et. al, 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Senior Adviser and Director of the CSIS Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group; Gregory Kiley, Senior Associate at CSIS focusing on national security and economics; Guy Ben-Ari, Deputy Director and Fellow with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS; Brian Green, director of strategic force assessments at Systems Planning and Analysis, Inc.; Joshua Hartman, Senior Fellow with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program; Gary Powell, Senior Associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS; Stephanie Sanok, Senior Fellow at CSIS, working on acquisition reform, export controls, and a variety of international security projects; Tara Callahan, Project Manager of the CSIS Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group; Lindsey Ohmit, Research Intern with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS; Thomas Patterson, Research Associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS); Gregory Sanders, research associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS; “National Security and the Commercial Space Sector”, CSIS Draft for Comment, April 30th, http://csis.org/files/publication/100430_berteau_commercial_space.pdf)</span>

__Multinational alliances and__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> __affecting U.S. launch sites__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Aerospace competiveness is key to hegemony**
**<span style="color: black;">Walker et al, 2002</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Robert,</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners”, November, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Defending our nation … </span>__<span style="color: black;"> preeminent military power</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**US leadership solves all other impacts – collapse of primacy results in nuclear war**
**Thayer, 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bradley A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, The National Interest, November -December, “In Defense of Primacy”, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A remarkable fact … the world's ills.</span>

===**Contention Three: China**=== 

<span class="Underline">**China is looking to develop space weapons and surpass the US - The only way to stop it is through cooperation with other nations** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Space News 08** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Becky Iannotta, Space News Staff Writer </span><span class="Underline">**,** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">08/16/08 http://www.space.com/5981-china-space-capability-surpass-united-states-panel-warns.html EL)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span class="Underline">The Shenzhou 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> people's everyday lives." </span>

**Further Cooperation with India is necessary to balance China – they are on the fence now**
**Zongyi, 2008** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Liu Zongyi, (research fellow of Center for South Asian Studies, Shanghai Institues for International Studies), " China-India-US Relationship: Where Will It Go?", 2008( copywrite date), http://www.siis.org.cn/en/zhuanti_view_en.aspx?id=10055. 6/21/11. JD</span>

__It is undeniable__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… by the US. </span>

**The US needs India to balance China- allies and Indian support of Washington**
**Blumenthal, 2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dan (is a current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, where he directs efforts to monitor, investigate, and provide recommendations on the national security implications of the economic relationship between the two countries.), " WILL INDIA BE A BETTER STRATEGIC PARTNER THAN CHINA?", Sep 03, 2006. http://www.npolicy.org/userfiles/image/Will%20India%20be%20a%20Better%20Strategic%20Partner%20than%20China_pdf.pdf. 6/22/11.JD</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the relationship … </span> __will not predominate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Chinese space superiority would crush US power project and capabilities which are key to stop a Taiwan conflict** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Smith 2006** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven A. Smith, 2/16/2006 Lt Col, USAF, “CHINESE SPACE SUPERIORITY? CHINA’S MILITARY SPACE CAPABILITIES AND THE IMPACT OF THEIR USE IN A TAIWAN CONFLICT” http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/awc/smith.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the Chinese … Chinese space systems.</span>

**War with China causes extinction**
**Straits Times**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 6-25-</span>**2000**

__THE high-intensity__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> __destruction of civilisation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===**Contention Four: Solvency**=== 

**Plan Text: The United States federal government should sign the Commercial Space Launch Agreement with the Government of India.**

**CSLA is key to Indian access to the commercial space launch market**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mohanty, CEO of Earth2Orbit, Indian Space Industry, 6/2/2011 (Susmita, “India should capture at least one-fifth of the world satellite manufacturing and launch market”, Interview with Geospatial Today, [[http://geospatialtoday.com/gst/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1149]], accessed: 6/22/2011, CQ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WHAT IS THE … </span> __international space marketplace.__

**Launch agreement necessary to actual space cooperation between the US and India**
**O’Donnell**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, MA Honours (first class) in international relations and Middle East studies from the University of St Andrews, </span>**5/11/2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Frank, “India's Space Ascent Gains New Boost”, Geopolitical Monitor, [[http://www.geopoliticalmonitor.com/indias-space-ascent-gains-new-boost-4363]], accessed: 6/22/11, CQ)</span>

__Indo-American space__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> __cooperation efforts widen.__




=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Development =/= Military</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A. INTERPRETATION:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**SPACE DEVELOPMENT IS HUMAN ECONOMIC AND COMMERCIAL ENDEAVORS AND SPACE EXPLORATION IS HUMAN SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIRING EXPLORATION OF THE UNKNOWN.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black;">Hsu and Cox, 9</span>__ -** *Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]])**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**In our view, …by taxpayer contributions.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**B. VIOLATION: THE AFF INCREASES MILITARY DEFENSE CAPABILITIES**</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Substantially</span>=== 

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A. Interpretation**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Substantially should be defined by context**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: black;">Devinsky, 2 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”,<span style="color: blue; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm]]</span>)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> The Federal Circuit …</span>__<span style="color: black;">patent documents."</span>__</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**And, a substantial increase in the context of space is at least 2.6 billion dollars**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: black;">Alexander, 8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">On Wednesday, October … indicates Congress's priorities.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**B. Violation – the affirmative only increases funding by 250 million**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: black;">Foust 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jeff, Aerospace analyst journalist and publisher of The Space Review, The Space Review, “Death from the skies? Ho- Hum,” January 25, 2010, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1550/1]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The second issue … 2011 budget proposal.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Payroll Tax Cuts DA</span>=== 


**PTC Will pass, top of agenda, but can be derailed**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Beutler 1-12</span>__** TPMDC Top White House Economist: Economy Still Vulnerable President Barack ObamaPresident Barack Obama Brian Beutler January 12, 2012, 11:12 A http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2012/01/top-white-house-economist-economy-still-vulnerable.php



After a December that fight left Republicans bloodied, Congress … <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> when it returns later this month</span>.



**[Insert link]**


**PC key**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mail</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Online</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">UK</span>__</span>, “'I won't take no for an answer on jobs bill': Defiant Obama vows to continue despite Senate defeat,“ 10-13-<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2011</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span> [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2048604/Obama-I-wont-answer-Jobs-bill.html?ito=feeds-newsxml]]



President Barack Obama has recorded a defiant … Recent polling data has revealed 52 per cent of Americans now back the bill, according to SBS.



**Solves double dip**
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Stewart, 12/28</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Heather, The Guardian, “Extending Obama’s tax cuts should be new year’s resolution for Republicans”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/economics-blog/2011/dec/28/obama-tax-cuts-new-year-resolution?newsfeed=true]</span>


<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Republicans caved in at the last minute</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span>be the Republicans' reputation that suffers.



**That causes depression**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Isidore, 11</span>__** [Chris, CNN Money, “Recession 2.0 would hurt worse”, http://money.cnn.com/2011/08/10/news/economy/double_dip_recession_economy/index.htm]


The risk of double dip recession is rising. And … no policy effort to counteract it



**Extiction**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kerpen 8</span>__</span> (October 28, 2008 7:53 AM From Panic to Depression? The dangers of blaming free trade, low taxes, and flexible labor markets for our current troubles. By Phil Kerpen, Phil Kerpen is policy director for Americans for Prosperity.)



__It’s important that we avoid__ all these … <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">conflicts on an even greater scale. </span>

=== === 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unemployment Insurance DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A.** **Unemployment insurance extension will pass but political capital is key**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Luhby October 12, 2011**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[mailto:tami.luhby@turner.com|Tami Luhby]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> @</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://twitter.com/CNNmoney|CNNMoney]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> October 12, 2011 Senate rejects Obama's jobs bill http://money.cnn.com/2011/10/11/news/economy/unemployment_benefits/?source=cnn_bin</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__While many Washington__** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> __be the last.__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**B.** </span>**(Insert Specific Link)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**C. Extension of unemployment insurance is key to check against short term protectionist pressures and trade wars.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ma 11**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Can the American … Hoover or FDR.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**D. The impact is global nuclear war**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Morgan 09**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Devil's Advocate: Protectionism breeds poverty, division, nuclear war By By Daniel Morgan, Sept 24, Columnist http://www.lsureveille.com/opinion/the-devil-s-advocate-protectionism-breeds-poverty-division-nuclear-war-1.1909328</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__To support foreign__** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>** **__good — bomb shelters.__**</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SKFTA DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**TAA passage means SKFTA passes now**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__ABC News Radio__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Senate Passes Worker Aid Bill, Easing Way for Trade Deals”, </span>__September 23rd__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2011, [[http://www.kgoam810.com/rssItem.asp?feedid=112&itemid=29729158]], accessed on September 23, 2011</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(WASHINGTON) -- </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Senate ... </span>__it to them.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**[INSERT SPECIFIC LINK HERE]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Political capital is key to passage**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wharton, January 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2011. (“U.S.-South Korea Trade Impact: A Turning Point For American Exports?” </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">What's more, the ... our export controls."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Skfta is key to alliance and asian stability**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hwang and Kim 2005**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Balbina Y. (Policy Analyst for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center) Anthony B (Research Associate in the Center for International Trade and Economics, at The Heritage Foundation) “Beyond the U.S.–South Korea Alliance: Reinvigorating Economic Relations”, Backgrounder #1853, May 18, http://www.heritage.org/Research/AsiaandthePacific/bg1853.cfm</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Recently, increasing anxiety ... of both countries.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**US - South Korea alliance is key to deterring North Korean aggression and proliferation**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scott A. </span><span class="Underline">Snyder</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow for Korea Studies and Director of the Program on U.S.-Korea Policy, “A New Chapter for U.S. – South Korea Alliance”, June 16th, 20</span><span class="Underline">09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://www.cfr.org/proliferation/new-chapter-us-south-korea-alliance/p19635]], accessed on September 20th, 2011</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While all eyes ... in North Korea</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Korean Conflict leads to extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hayes and Green, 10</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">*Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The consequences of ... the international community</span>

===NASA Earth Sciences DA=== 

**NASA’s earth science missions are fully funded, but the overall budget is tight and carefully calibrated to balance research with exploration**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Holdren 11</span>__</span> (John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”, Congressional Documents and Publications, 5-4, Lexis)
This past October, <span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> of the ISS.</span>
**Plan forces spending trade-offs that destroy effective Earth sciences, risking catastrophic climate change and acidic oceans**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Haymet 7</span>__</span> (Tony, Director of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography – University of California, San Diego, Mark Abbott, Dean of the College of Oceanic and Atmospheric Science – Oregon State University, and Jim Luyten, Acting Director – Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, “The Planet NASA Needs to Explore”, Washington Post, 5-10, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve|http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/05/09/AR2007050902451.html]]</span>)

Decades ago, a … <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> our own planet</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>

**Warming is real and causes human extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Henderson 2006</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bill, environmental scientist, “Runaway Global Warming Denial.” Countercurrents.org August 19,.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@https://webmail.whitman.edu/horde/services/go.php?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.countercurrents.org%2Fcc-henderson190806.htm|http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The scientific debate </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span> world we share.

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**US-Chinese Space Cooperation is increasing – Obama is working with China and changing disliked strategies to relax Chinese perception.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black;">Zhang 11</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. Baohui Zhang received his undergraduate education in China and his Ph.D. in political science from the University of Texas in Austin. Before joining the faculty of Lingnan, he taught for ten years in the United States. His research interests include Chinese politics, international relations of East Asia, and democratization. “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship” March/April 2011 http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311?origin=JSTOR-pdf]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the strategic ... an arms race"</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Suspicion of dual-use technologies causes the plan to be perceived as hostile by China in its defense and economic interests**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="underline0">**__Shixiu 7__**</span>**<span style="color: black;">-</span>**<span style="color: black;"> senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA [Bao, Winter 2007, China Security, “Emerging Threat,” [[http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">China cannot accept ... the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Military one-upping resulting from the hostility caused by plan spirals into US-Chinese war over Taiwan.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solomone, 06</span>**__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stacey, Ph.D. in Futures Studies at the University of Hawaii, “China's Space Program: the great leap upward,” Journal of Contemporary China, rmg</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">PLA control of ... WMD from China.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Taiwan War culminates in extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black;">Strait Times 2000</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(June 25, “Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan”, Lexis)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO ... above everything else.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Angry Birds Kritik</span>=== 


**The aff is like the smash hit mobile app, “Angry Birds”—it’s fun to play but has no basis in military history—not all aspects of warfare can be boiled down to science**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Vego</span>__**, Jan 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">03</span>__**, Milan Vego is professor of Military Operations at the Naval War College, “Net-Centric Is Not Decisive.”, U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, Vol. 129 Issue 1, p52



<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Network-centric warfare enthusiasts pay </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">parts of war in the modern era.</span>


**Unlike in Angry Birds, in real life we can’t restart a military campaign—This turns the case—basis in history is a prerequisite to military effectiveness**

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Milan </span>__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Vego</span>**__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">,</span>professor of Military Operations at the Naval War College,<span style="font-size: 11pt;">20**__10__**</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, “Military History and theStudy of Operational Art” Joint Forces Quarterly, Issue 57, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-57/vego-operationalArt.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Experience abundantly shows the critical </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">effort; otherwise, the results will be wanting</span>





**The alt is to reject their notion of war as a science—and reaffirm its status as an art**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Vego</span>__**, Jan 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">03</span>__**, Milan Vego is professor of Military Operations at the Naval War College, “Net-Centric Is Not Decisive.”, U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, Vol. 129 Issue 1, p52

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The trend toward greatly increased </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span> skillful application of tenets of operational warfare.

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kappeler Kritik</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Observation 1 is the Link**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The affirmative cedes the political sphere by asking “what should the government do.” This focus on mega spheres of action limits out any possibility that we would be able to address what we would do if were indeed ourselves. This kills political activism- inculcating a spectator mentality and preventing change, turning the case.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 95**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.10-11)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yet <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">our insight </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">war and violence. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Observation 2: We are the violence:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**We are the violence in the ways in which we ignore our own responsibility and permit violence it to happen. Our everyday actions and thoughts are part of the violence that is ubiquitous through ought our society.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kappeler 95</span>__** (Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">war does not </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">them to happen. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Observation 3 is what would we do if we were indeed ourselves?:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The Alternative text is to reject the affirmatives representations and reconcieve of violence as an issue of personal choice made by individuals.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 95**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.5-6)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">A politics aiming …</span> violator’s envisaged victim.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fuck Cyborgs Kritik</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The affirmation of the postmodern cyborg furthers the image of a hyper sexualized being that while closing the gap between the human and the nonhuman, only strengthens the gender binaries of patriarchal society, turning case.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">**Cohen Shabot ’06** (Sara, “Grotesque Bodies: A Response to Disembodied Cyborgs.” Journal of Gender Studies, Vol. 15, No. 3, November. P. 223-235)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"><span class="SmallTextF4">__The ﬁrst issue__ __…__</span> literature and ﬁlms.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The good intentions of the affirmative are irrelevant. Reliance on strict binaries means that their project is doomed to failure. Thus we present the grotesque body – dying, being born, the very core of vulnerability and what it means to live.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">**Cohen Shabot ’06** (Sara, “Grotesque Bodies: A Response to Disembodied Cyborgs.” Journal of Gender Studies, Vol. 15, No. 3, November. P. 223-235)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Embodied existence<span class="SmallTextF4">__, then…__</span> at its core.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security Kritik</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The 1AC’s violent craving for a secure world begins in the mind – our enemies are not real, but psychological constructs maintained by group mentalities that ensure violence will continue.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__Mack__** __19__**__88__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988.</span><span class="s2" style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, MT) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The threat of nuclear annihilation has </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">major focus of our educational system. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**The alternative is to reject the ideology of security and the policies that further it. Our discussion of ontology enables us to escape the inevitability of violence and ecological destruction that security makes inevitable. Only taking action outside of the political sphere solves.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 2007</span>(Anthony, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason” Theory and Event vol. 10.2, Project Muse)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I was motivated to begin the … <span style="font-size: 10pt;"> insecurity and violence? Will our thought?</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span class="cite">Rejecting specific policies which embody the security paradigm is key. The act of voting not-aff is necessary to find a world post-security</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, Alternatives 27)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is perhaps easy to … <span style="font-size: 10pt;"> its shimmering possibilities might be</span>. </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Executive Order CP</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to [insert plan text]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Executive Orders are key to upholding and increasing presidential powers**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kenneth </span>__Mayer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Prof. Political Science at University of Wisconsin –Madison, WITH THE STROKE OF A PEN: EXECUTIVE ORDERS AND PRESIDENTIAL POWER, P 28-29, 20</span>__01__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This theoretical perspective … have no control. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Presidential powers are key to stopping terrorism: empirically proven**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span>__Dean__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, former Chief Minority Counsel to the Judiciary Committee of the United States House of Representatives, the Associate Director of a law reform commission, and Associate Deputy Attorney General of the United States, “ EXAMINING THE PRESIDENT'S POWERS TO FIGHT TERRORISM”, September 14th, 20</span>__11__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://writ.news.findlaw.com/dean/20010914.html]], accessed on September 19, 2011</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">President Bush must </span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">…</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">years following Vietnam.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Even a failed terrorist attack causes nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mohamed </span>__Sid-Ahmed__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Political Analyst for Al-Ahram Newspaper, “Extinction!” http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm, 8-26-</span>__09__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">What would be … all be losers.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Internal Net Benefit Valley Round 4**</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Presidential power is critical to foreign policy to combat African AIDS.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bob </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deans</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 20</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">00</span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Atlanta Journal and Constitution, 1-23, Lexis THE AMERICAN PRESIDENCY: White House power growing, accessed7-27-07)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Yet </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-size: 11pt;">**the U.S. ...** </span>on the theme.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Uniqueness CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Text: The United States federal government should sign the space weaponization ban proposed by Russia and China.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CP solves space war better than dominance can.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Englehart 8**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alex B Englehart, </span><span class="st" style="font-size: 8pt;">contributor to the Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal at the University of Washington School of Law</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jan 2008 “Common Ground In The Sky: Extending The 1967 Outer Space Treaty To Reconcile US and Chinese Security Interests</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">” </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal ProQuest Asian Business and Reference pg. 133</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> <</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?did=1429810431&Fmt=7&clientId=4347&RQT=309&VName=PQD>//DoeS</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Some conservatives in ... in bad faith.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg Advantage CP</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Text: The United States Department of Defense** **in order to substantially increase the number of persons serving in the Armed Forces, should establish a 15 month enlistment option for the United States Armed Forces for college graduates that include educational loan benefits, including support for college**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CP solves heg</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__Moskos 05__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Charles, A former U.S. Army draftee in the combat engineers in Germany, his research has taken him to combat units in Vietnam, Panama, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia, Kosovo, and Iraq., “Toward a New Conception of the Citizen Soldier,” E-Notes, Foreign Policy Research Institute, April 7, 2005, pg. [[http://www.fpri.org/enotes/20050407.military.moskos.newconceptioncitizensoldier.html]]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The most practical way </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… to professional prison guards.</span></span>

===Counter-Advocacy vs. Lady Gaga AFF=== 

**First 1:21 of this song played:**
[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GGXzlRoNtHU&ob=av3e]]

**Thus, Cole and I artistically and metaphorically affirm our identity as winners.**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Winning is the most important thing. We were born this way.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **It give us purpose to our lives, increases our value to life, and most importantly inspires others to be winners like us.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Jeffrey </span>**__Spencer__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, February 10, 20</span>**__09__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (CPA, MBA, and Managing Principal at Innsbruck Financial Consultants llc, A FEE-ONLY Registered Investment Advisor) “Why winning matters” </span>[[http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/become-your-own-champion/200902/why-winning-matters-part-i]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__An important question to__** **…** **__basis with full conviction.__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Winning is key to our happiness, contribution to humanity, building a life of purpose, and giving us a better appreciation for the lives we were given. Winning is also key to helping us define ourselves as individuals.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Jeffrey </span>**__Spencer__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">February 10, 20</span>**__09__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (CPA, MBA, and Managing Principal at Innsbruck Financial Consultants llc, A FEE-ONLY Registered Investment Advisor) “Why winning matters” </span>[[http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/become-your-own-champion/200902/why-winning-matters-part-i]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Simply put</span>**__: If you don't__** **…****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not what we might lose.</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative Strategies</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Valley</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Round 1 vs. Edina MY (Satellite Hardening)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T - Development doesn't include military</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space Militarization DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SKFTA DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg bad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Treaty CP</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: XO CP, SKFTA DA, Heg</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Round 4 vs. Bloomington Jefferson (METI)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T - Exploration excludes METI</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SKFTA DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NASA Earth Sciences DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Util stuff on case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: XO CP, SKFTA DA, Util</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Round 6 vs. UC Lab (Asteroid Detection)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T - Substantially</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NASA Earth Sciences DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact Framing</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: T - Substantially</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rosemount Round Robin</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Round 1 vs. Wayzata BS (SPS)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T - Substantially</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg Bad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warming Defense</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Answered SKFTA turns</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg Bad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warming Defense</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Round 3 vs. Central AN (Cyborgs)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T - Increase ≠ New</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cyborgs K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On the Ground CP (Don't send cyborgs to space)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Frontier turn</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Util</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Cyborgs K (Woot woot, Millard South swag)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">#Max Anderson</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Round 5 vs. Eagan MN (K - 12 Education)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T - Beyond Mesosphere</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kappeller K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg Bad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weaponization Turn</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Econ Defense</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: T - Beyond Mesosphere</span>

===Iowa Caucus=== 

**Round 1 vs. Edina MH (Kritikal SPS)**

1NC: T - Substantial
XO CP (Aids internal net benefit)
Ozone DA
Kappeller Kritik
Util
Case Defense

2NR: XO CP w/ internal net ben

**Round 3 vs. Millard South GL (Fronteir)**

1NC: Framework
Kappeller Kritik
Ozone DA
Imperialism Good

2NR: Framework

**Round 5 vs. Blake SW (WFIRST)**

1NC: James Webb Telescope Offsets CP
NASA Earth Sciences DA
Ozone DA
Kappeller Kritik
Util

2NR: Kappeller Kritik

**Doubles vs. Barstow LW (Property Rights)**

1NC: T - Development
Security Kritik
Ozone DA
XO CP (Terror internal net benefit)
Case Defense

2NR: T - Development

**Octos vs. Iowa City West DH (SPS for Dod)**

1NC: T - Not Military
Ozone DA
Security Kritik
Case Defense

2NR: Security Kritik

===Blake=== 

**Round 2 vs. Beacon (GIS Satellite w/environmental racism and disease)**

1NC: XO CP
Unemployment Politics
North Korea DA
Kappeller Kritik
Bauman DA
Util

2NR: Kappeller Kritik
Bauman DA

**Round 4 vs. Kent Denver (CLARREO)**

1NC: XO CP
Unemployment Politics
Security Kritik
North Korea DA
Case

2NR: Security Kritik

**Round 6 vs. Wayzata HD (DSCOVR)**

1NC: Ukraine CP
XO CP
Unemployment Politics
North Korea DA
Case

2NR: XO CP
Unemployment Politics
Case

===Minnesota State Debate Tournament=== 

**Round 1 vs. Edina SS (Asteroids)**

1NC: T-Substantial
Payroll Tax Cuts Politics DA
XO CP (Terrorism internal net benefit)
Environmental Security
Case

2NR: XO CP (Terrorism internal net benefit)

**Round 4 vs. Central GW (Star Trek)**

1NC: T - USFG
Ozone DA
Kappeller Kritik
Bauman DA
Case

2NR: Bauman DA (it was conceded)
T - USFG

**Quarters vs. Edina MY (Satellite Hardening)**

1NC: T - Commercial
Payroll Tax Cuts Politics DA
Treaty CP
Security Kritik
Weaponization DA (on case)
Case

2NR: Payroll Tax Cuts Politics DA
Case

**Semis vs. Blake MM (TSATS)**

1NC: T - Substantial
T - Commercial
Security Kritik
Angry Birds (NCW Bad) Kritik
Payroll Tax Cuts Politics DA
Ozone DA (on case)
Case

2NR: Payroll Tax Cuts Politics DA
Case





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]