[[toc]]
=Information= 
For cites, email Cam Colella at theboys710[at]gmail[dot]com.

To be honest, full-text cites just mess with formatting, so I'm not posting them, but email me for anything and you've got it.

I'll try to get cites up as soon as possible, but we've had rather bad luck with internet at tournaments. If you need them immediately, track me down at a tournament, and I can flash them to you.
=Affirmative= 

==1AC Satellite Hardening== 

===China=== 

**Contention one is China –**

**Attack inevitable –**

**A. 40 countries developing now**
**Donahue, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Currently, the configuration of global … potential hazards to other satellites.</span>


**B. Achilles Heel spurs diverse actors – only hardening solves**
**Rendleman, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a … new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>

**C. PLA AND CCP officials and doctrine mean the brink is now and treaties won’t stop them**
**Houpt 10/31 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">M.A. in Security Studies from Georgetown (Danny, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1)</span>
__Little is known about__ ... __domain as a whole.__

**D. Treaties won’t stop them**
**Space and Missile Defense Report 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[China Will Attack U.S. Space Assets In Any War; Pentagon Must Field Defenses. (2007, October). Space & Missile Defense, Retrieved June 23, 2011, from ProQuest Technology Journals</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
__China will drop its adherence__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> criticize any so- called weaponization of space, he stated.</span>


**That’s bad –**

**A. Hardening key to prevent miscalc, China first strike, and Taiwan war**
**Burke, 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__The erosion of the US ability … satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.57 </span>


**B. Turns every war**
**Hunkovic,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Military University,</span> **09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
__A war between China, Taiwan …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not be considered in this study.</span>


**C. US first strike**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Tellis, 7 – </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (2007, Ashley, “Punching the U.S. Military’s “Soft Ribs”: China’s Antisatellite Weapon Test in Strategic Perspective”, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/pb_51_tellis_final.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Second, </span><span class="Underline">the successful Chinese … the complications of accidents and misperception. </span>


**D. Extinction**
<span class="UnderlineChar">Takai ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What would happen ... is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners.</span>


**E. No incentive to cooperate – space is our Achilles’ heel**
**Tellis, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Ashley, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To assert in the face of this evidence …</span> __especially the United States__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


===Deterrence=== 

**Contention two is deterrence –**

**Attack bad –**

**A. Development spurs an attack, kills assets**
**Smith, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute … remove doubt in the minds of commanders.</span>


**B. Assets key to power projection**
**Marshall, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
__Space assets are one of the most …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.</span>


**Heg good –**

**A. Key to deescalate conflict – sparks power wars**
**Thayer 6** **-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of security studies @ Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>
__A grand strategy based on …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>


**B. Heg is comparatively better than alternatives**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Goure 11</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel, Vice President with the Lexington Institute, “Unsettled World Won’t Let US Reduce Its Military,” http://www.defpro.com/news/details/20969/?SID=3f7de7dc9a8343394bd7e1cfb97fd429, dml)</span>

<span class="styleboldunderline">__<span style="color: black;">The conventional wisdom</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">in the …</span><span class="styleboldunderline">__<span style="color: black;"> for the long run. The world has </span>__</span>//no one else//<span class="styleboldunderline">__<span style="color: black;"> to whom it can turn.</span>__</span>


**C. If decline is inevitable, heg key to peaceful transition**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dolman 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408, EMM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dolman: Well, I think …</span>__some sort of order.__


**Hardening solves –**

**A. Punishment fails – causes attacks and kills dominance**
**Rendleman, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The strategy to deter nuclear attack worked throughout the Cold War; the Soviet Union was powerful, but it was also a rational adversary. For this reason, the United States worked hard to understand the culture, goals, incentives, and ideals of the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union was also open to, … kinetic-kill ASATs and jammers.</span>

**B. Denial kills incentive**
**Sheldon 8 - Fellow at the Marshall Institute** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Sheldon - was program director for Space Security at the Centre for De-fence and International Security Studies, Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, “Deterrence in Space”, Nov. 13, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Accessed July 14 2011]</span>
__There are more concrete__ __….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more traditional systems that are being used in orbit.</span>

**C. Key to rogue states – diplomacy fails**
**Haddick 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of … Pentagon's budget masters.</span>



===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its defensive satellite hardening, awareness, redundancy, and mobility.**


===Solvency=== 

**Contention three is solvency –**

**Defense is the best offense**

**A. Here’s our solvency advocate for the entirety of the plan**
**Morgan 10 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although satellites are inherently …</span> __states into the conflict__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**B. Weaponization inevitable and treaties fail**
**Schendzielos 8 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">USAF Major</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for US Satellites,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lastly, </span><span class="Underline">one</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very … </span>the goal<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this proposal.</span>


**C. Perceived peacefully**
**Buck 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Integration Manager for the NSSO Communications Functional Integration Office (COMM-FIO), and augments COMM-FIO leadership of a 200-member enterprise team of elite DoD, Intelligence Community (IC), NASA, and space & cyber industry engineers, operators & stakeholders (February 17, 2010, Darren J., “SPACE 2035: TECHNOLOGY, TRANSPARENCY, AND TRUSTED IMMUNITY,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_1a3a5809-1e22-4f94-890f-cc231da5bd28/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Weapons: Perception … </span> __influence on the international stage.__


**D. Treaties fail – enforcement and counterbalancing**
**Oberg 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – 22-year veteran of NASA mission control, writer and consultant in Houston (James, March 12, “The dozen space weapons myths”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/826/1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__9. The Outer Space Treaty …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> treaties to emulate.</span>


=Negative= 

==DAs== 

===Militarization=== 

**Obama is establishing multilateral cooperation**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, ... devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Causes preemption – kills solvency**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Krepon and Heller, 04 </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">*co-founder of The Henry L. Stimson Center and Director of the Center's Space Security Project AND Research Assistant on the Stimson Center's Space Security Project (Michael and Micheal, Disarmament Diplomacy, “A Model Code of Conduct for Space Assurance”, May/June, http://www.acronym.org.uk/dd/dd77/77mkmh.htm)</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">The flight testing and</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> prospective ...</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> humankind during the Cold War.</span>__

**Accidental nuclear war – risks extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="color: black;">A buildup of space weapons ...</span>____<span style="color: black;"> the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__
==CPs== 

===Consult Russia=== 

**BPC key to relations – disagreements put us on the brink**
**Rojansky, 7/13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[7/13/11, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Matthew Rojansky</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment “Lavrov's Visit and a New Foundation for U.S.-Russia Cooperation”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://carnegie.ru/publications/?lang=en&fa=45036</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, SM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russian Foreign Minister Sergey ...</span> __great nations work together.__

**Relations check loose nukes, accidents, nuclear war, miscalc**
**Cohen, ‘1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, Prof of Russian Studies at NYU, June 7,</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20010625&c=1&s=cohen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In these and other ways,</span> <span class="apple-converted-space">__...__</span> __"If not now, when? If not us, who?"__

==__Ks__== 

===__Nietzsche__=== 

**<span style="color: black;">The aff’s rejection of chaos constructs an unreal perfect world opposite reality that they order themselves to – this engenders ressentiment. They blame the chaos that is a part of them on their neighbor, and try to eradicated it.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Paul </span>**<span style="color: black;">Saurette</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, PhD in political theory at John Hopkins U, </span>**<span style="color: black;">in 96</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> "I mistrust all systematizers and avoid them': Nietzshce, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in INternational Relations Theory." Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25 no. 1 page 3-6</span>The Will to Order and Politics-as-Making The Philosophical Foundation of the Will to Truth/Order •. I mistrust all systematizers and avoid them. A will to a system is a lack .of ! integrity."
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Nietzsche, the philosophical ... fundamental philosophical principle of modernity. </span>

**Risk is inherent – their fear of life robs them of everything worth living for. This creates a negative Will to Power which rejects the “bad” parts of life.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> James </span>**Der Derian, 93**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> professor of political science at the U Massachusetts-Amherst and prof of IR at Brown 93 </span>"The political subject of violence" ed. David Campbell and Michael Dillon, p 101-105
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nietzsche and Interpretive Realism ...</span> __calculation of risks and benefits.__

**<span style="color: black;">Our alternative is to “Do nothing in the instance of the plan.” The refusal to act accepts the inevitability of struggle, allowing us to understand pain positively.</span>**
**Nietzsche, ‘78** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The anti-christ //Human, All too Human.// Aphorism #284 1878</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The means to real peace</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.—...—and from up high.</span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]