[[toc]]
=Contact info= 

maxlubell@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Plan== 


**The United States federal government should substantially increase tier 1, tier 2, and tier 3 of Operationally Responsive Space.**



===Development=== 

**High launch costs inhibit commercial space development**
**Coppersmith, 10** – <span style="color: black; font-family: 'georgia','serif';">historian of technology at Texas A&M University</span> (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]]

Lost in the attention given … economic as well as scientific opportunities.

**Small satellites will stimulate commercial launch markets and substantially lower launch costs – this is proven internationally.**
**<span style="color: black;">Colón</span>****<span style="color: #101010;">, 10</span>**<span style="color: #101010;"> - </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9px;">Lt Col, USAF, former </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral AFS, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9px;">served as the deputy commander 595th Space Group responsible for the operational testing of space and missile weapon systems until leaving for his present assignment at the Air War College (Miguel, “ DETERRENCE 2035 –THE ROLE OF TRANSPARENCY AND DIVERSITY IN A WORLD OF NANOSATS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]])</span>

<span style="color: black;">Third, advanced miniaturization is… minimizing the impact of the attack</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Small satellite decreased launch costs spills over to development of larger programs, incentivizes industrial base contracts, and competitiveness. ORS is also politically popular</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Magnuson, 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">(Stew, writes for redorbit, citing Theresa Hitchens, director of the Center for Defense Information, a Washington-based think tank.“Space on Demand”, 7/4, [[http://www.redorbit.com/news/space/990184/space_on_demand/index.html]], ken)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">The small satellites can… funding comes down the road," she said. </span>


**Military ORS revolutionizes the space industry – innovation and launch costs**
**Hoey 6** (Matthew, “Military space systems: the road ahead”, The Space Review, 2/27/2006, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1]])
<span style="font-size: 15px;">Increases in funding for military…. space programs and commercial space launches.</span>

**Only a firm governmental commitment to ORS solves**
**Felt, 10** -<span style="font-size: 11px;"> USAF Commander, Space Test Operations Squadron Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB, New Mexico (Eric, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])</span>

Industry watching for decisive…field significant operational capability.

<span class="Underline">**Decreasing the perception of high launch costs solves resource wars** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Collins and Autino, 10** - </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">* Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND **Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)**</span>

**<span class="Underline">The major source of social … the prospects for humanity are bleak. </span>**

Extinction
Heinberg 3**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> (Richard, New College of California, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, p. 230)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">While the US has not declared war on any nation since 1945, it has nevertheless bombed or invaded a total of 19 countries and stationed troops, or engaged in direct or indirect military action, in dozens of others. During the Cold War, the US military apparatus grew exponentially, ostensibly in response to the threat posed by an archrival: the Soviet Union. But </span>

after the end of the Cold War the… of humanity and most of the biosphere.

===Deterrence=== 

**New Pentagon report, expert opinion, and Chinese official statements prove China is embarking on hegemonic expansion – increasing offensive capabilities and weaponizing space.**
**Maginnis 8/31** (Robert is a retired Army lieutenant colonel, and a national security and foreign affairs analyst. Pentagon Report Exposes China Menace 08/31/2011)

A new Pentagon report indicates… use that position to push its Marxist ideology.


**Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate**
**Wortzel, 8**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

The PLA is exploring in theoretical … will have access to space in any future conflict.


**Miscalc is the biggest internal link to conflict - The PLA is uniquely susceptible to this because it is politically tone-deaf. It guarantees pre-emption**
**MacDonald, 11**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5 /9, lexis)</span>

One characteristic of too many wars… instability seems high and likely to grow.


**China will weaponize space because of its imperial realist ambitions. Assuming the worst is the only way to prevent miscalc**
**Cooper 9**<span style="font-size: 11px;">– Analyst Assistant at National Research Council (Brent, “Lost in Space: A Realist and Marxist Analysis of US Space Militarization”, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization]])</span>

In international relations, neorealism… analysis of the space weaponization regime.


**These vulnerabilities make a US-China war likely – 2 internal links:**
**1. Chinese Space Pearl Harbor – the impact is Taiwan war and strategic vulnerability**
**<span style="color: black;">Burke, 6</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” </span>[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]]<span style="font-size: 9px;">)</span>

One of the most serious impacts … the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a //fait accompli//.

**2. Just the perceived vulnerability will cause the US to preempt China – ORS solves**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tellis 7</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>

Finally, the growing Chinese capability for… of accidents and further misperception.


**These wars cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Straight Times 2k</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Ching Cheong, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a…pass**,** we would see the destruction of civilization.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**Small satellites and reconstitution gives the US the ability to survive an attack**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

This responsiveness theme has been… as needed, activate on-orbit spares.

**Preventing deployment of space weapons solves extinction. Even if they don’t attack, weaponization will spark accidental space war –causes retaliation and a debris shower that outweighs nuclear war**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black;"> -</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8px;">Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,  HYPERLINK "http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html" http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons might… destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

**Overtly demonstrating ORS in a transparent manner establishes effective deterrence by __denying perceived benefits__ to an attack – 7 reasons**
**<span style="color: #101010;">Putman, 9</span>**<span style="color: #101010;"> –</span><span style="color: #101010; font-size: 9px;"> USAF Major, </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,</span>
<span style="font-size: 9px;">DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron</span><span style="color: #101010; font-size: 9px;"> (Christopher, “</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]] ken)</span>

The United States has taken some initial steps… accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Current satellites fail - a stable commitment to funding ORS is vital to future development. It solves military readiness. </span>**
<span class="apple-converted-space">**<span style="color: #101010;">Dinerman, 6</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">– DOD space consultant, and </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch (Taylor, The Space Review, “</span>//<span style="color: black;">Tactical IR satellites: operationally responsive spacecraft?,” 8/7, </span>[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/675/1]]

<span style="color: black;">The troops on the ground need… troops on the ground and for America as a whole.</span>


**Readiness prevents war and maintains US heg**
**Spencer 2k** <span style="font-size: 8px;">(Jack, Research Fellow at Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, “The Facts About Military Readiness”, Heritage Foundation, September 15th, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-Readiness]])</span>

America's national security requirements… interest, thereby preserving peace.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Heg access every major impact </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">**Thayer 6**, </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">Professor of Strategic Studies,- Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">A grand strategy based on… the economic prosperity it provides. </span>

**Effective space deterrence contributes to global deterrence of conflict**
**Morgan, 10**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> - </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>

Although this assessment focuses… fortifies general deterrence and stability.


**2 and a half years of history proves states will attack the most valuable part of the military – that means space war is likely**
**Smith**<span style="font-size: 11px;">, Colonel and PhD in IR, </span>**11**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>

It is a rule in strategy… stretch them slowly over time.

**China could act through terrorist proxies or rogue states to avoid retribution – they will miscalc**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

The strategy to deter nuclear attack… for their own lack of conventional strength.
=Negative= 
==Weaponization DA== 

**Obama’s NSP triggers multilateral space cooperation– it prevents weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> - , Ph.D., </span>senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring,  HYPERLINK "http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2" )

As is well understood, the… Many devils may lurk in these details.


**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,”  HYPERLINK "http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf" http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf</span>)

Cooperation for contested and… responsible space-faring nations.


**Cooperation is key to prevent miscalc and pre-emption**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span>HYPERLINK "http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you"<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern</span>… alternative would be unacceptable to all.


**War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,  HYPERLINK "http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html" http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons… destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

==Delegation CP== 

<span class="Underline">**Text: Congress should delegate the authority to** [do the plan] **to** [agency]**. The [agency] should pursue and enact the congressional delegation.** </span>

**Counterplan solves the aff and doesn’t link to politics.**
David <span class="Heading2Char">Epstein and O’Hallaron 99</span>, Department of Political Science and Stanford Graduate School of Business, Columbia and Stanford University, and Sharyn O’Hallaron, Department of Political Science and the School of International and Public Affairs and Hoover Institution, Columbia and Stanford University, January 1999 (“The Nondelegation Doctrine and the Separation of Powers” – Cardozo Law Review) p. lexis

Our institutional analysis begins… the preferred mode of policymaking.

==Of Space T== 

**Space must be the object of exploration or development – use of preposition “of” in Outer Space Treaty proves.**
**BOCKSTIEGEL 95** Ph D., Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chair Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chair of Council of the National German Space Agency
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)</span>

The official title of… considered as ‘use’ of space.

**it means vagueness is a voter – ORS is a concept, not a specific set of actions, making the plan text inherently conditional, destroying case specific strategies which are the best for education as the year progresses.**

**GAO 2k8** <span style="font-size: 9px;">– US Government Accountability Office (US Government Accountability Office, “Defense Space Activities: DOD Needs to Further Clarify the Operationally Responsive Space Concept and Plan to Integrate and Support Future Satellites,” 7/14/2k8, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08831.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 9px;"> /mr)</span>

DOD is making some progress…needs may be hampered**__.__**

==**Humans T**== 

**Definition: Exploration is human presence in Earth’s orbit and beyond**
**Logsdon 7**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (John Logsdon is former Director of the Space Policy Institute at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_George_Washington_University|The George Washington University]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Logsdon#cite_note-0|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 11px;"> He is a current member of the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NASA_Advisory_Council|NASA Advisory Council]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">. “A Sustainable Rationale for Human Spaceflight,” 2007. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.issues.org/20.2/p_logsdon.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">)</span>

The August 2003 report… do too much with too little."



=Specific rounds= 

==Golden Dessert== 

**Round 2**
Cosmos Aff

Government PIC
Framework
T "of space"

2NR- T "of space"

**Round 4**
ORS

Space Mil DA
Politics DA
T "of space"

2NR- T "of space"

**Round 5**
Cosmos Aff

Government PIC
Framework
T "of space"
T "humans"

2NR- Government PIC

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]