[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Iowa City West (IA) - Jeffrey Ding & Liam Hancock#http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2011-2012+-+Iowa+City+West+%28IA%29+-+Jeffrey+Ding+%26+Liam+Hancock|Back to ICW HD Main Page]]
=Specific Violations= 
==T- Human== 
===1NC Version 1=== 
**Space exploration can be both human and robotic but must be tied to a mission to ensure human access to space**
**Seboldt 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Ph. D. German Aerospace Center (DLR), (Dr. Wolfgang, “PROPOSAL FOR AN INTEGRATED EUROPEAN SPACE EXPLORATION STRATEGY” pg 1-2, [[http://www.spacesailing.net/paper/200410_Vancouver_SeboldtBlomeDachwald+.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What is Space Exploration?...</span>, e.g., philosophical, ethical, and political aspects


===1NC Version 2=== 
**1. Interpretation – exploration and/or development requires human projects**

**a) Development**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(WE DON’T ENDORSE THE GENDERED LANGUAGE IN THE CARD)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Eric Westling is a</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">science writer ...</span>__
**__of manned commercial projects in space__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**b) Exploration**
**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many believe ... </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>


==ASPEC== 
===1NC Shell=== 
<span class="2TagCite">A. Interpretation.</span>
<span class="2TagCite">The federal government is divided into three branches.</span>
<span class="2TagCite">Rotunda 01</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Richard Rotunda, professor of law at the University of Illinois, 2001; 18 Const. Commentary 319, “The Commerce Clause, the Political Question Doctrine, and Morrison,” L/N</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The Framers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">sought to protect liberty ...</span>
<span class="5Notunderlined">splitting it between two Houses of Congress. n12</span>





<span class="2TagCite">3. Agency is key to all aspects of solvency - </span>

<span class="2TagCite">Elmore 80</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">R.F. Elmore, professor of public affairs at University of Washington, 1980 [Political science quarterly, pg. 605, (m7,06)]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Analysis of policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> choices </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">matters...</span>
<span class="5Notunderlined">remaining </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">90 percent in</span><span class="5Notunderlined"> the realm of </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">implementation</span><span class="5Notunderlined">.</span>









=2NC Generic Cards= 
==People Quit== 
**Risk of a limits DA outweighs – PEOPLE WILL QUIT DEBATE**
**Rowland, 84**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first major problem identified by the work ... </span>
__small schools to__ __cancel their programs.__