<span style="font-size: 13px;">[[toc]]
</span>

=Info= 
If you want cites or something tell email Mark and I'll put it up

I switch the advantages/1AC depending on the team

Add-ons Read so far:
-Free Trade
-U.S. Economy
-Chinese nationalism
-Space Debris
-Heg
-Environment
-Human Rights
=<span style="font-size: 13px;">1AC - China Coop ISS LBC</span>= 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Contention 1 is the status quo</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">The US has not invited China to participate on the ISS, forcing them to go it alone in space</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Cyranoski, 5-4-11</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(David, Nature.com Asia-Pacific Correspondent, “China Unveils Its Space Station” http://www.nature.com/news/2011/110504/full/473014a.html)TJL</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Observers describe the program as slow, ………..NASA from collaborating with China.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space exploration using the International Space Station, including an offer to the People’s Republic of China of participation in joint International Space Station activities.</span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Advantage 1 is Weaponization </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">China’s rapid militarization of space is caused by American unilateral space leadership, making a cycle of Chinese miscalculated space war inevitable in the status quo</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Zhang ’11</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Baohui Zhang is Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, Number 2, pg 311-313, JSTOR) TJL</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Indeed, in the wake of ………..<span style="font-size: 15px;">been engaged in a dangerous spiral of action-reaction space planning and/or activity.”</span>6</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">And China is making strategic long-term moves towards ASAT development</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Adams 10</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Jonathan. "China is on path to 'militarization of space'." Christian Science Monitor 28 Oct. 2010: N.PAG. Academic Search Premier. EBSCO) TJL</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">China looks set to …………to sustain its lead in space."</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">And the Chinese are on the verge of having full US satellite take-out capabilities </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Ressler 9 </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Aaron R. U.S. Air Force Major, “Advancing Sino-U.S. Space Cooperation”, April 2009, p. 1-2, http://www.dtic.mil/cgibin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA539619) TJL</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">In addition to the direct-ascent ASAT capability demonstrated in January 2007<span style="font-size: 15px;">, China has invested in the research of a range of counterspace technologies</span>.4 Again, the January 2007 test was a demonstration of a direct-ascent ASAT. “<span style="font-size: 15px;">Direct-ascent weapons are particularly effective against satellites flying in</span>Low Earth Orbits <span style="font-size: 15px;">(LEO), where most of America’s remote sensing, meteorological, and imaging intelligence satellites, and their associated relays, currently operate.”</span>5 While <span style="font-size: 15px;">China does have the spacelift capability to launch objects into Medium Earth Orbits (MEO) and geostationary orbits, using larger rockets would “alter the dynamics for an effective hit-to-kill kinetic kill vehicle, making their current ASAT design unusable for such purposes.”6 This is not to suggest the People’s Republic of China (PRC) will never obtain this capability in the future.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Current US space policy makes U.S.-China war and miscalculation inevitable </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Zhang ’11</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Baohui Zhang is Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, Number 2, pg 314-315, JSTOR) TJL</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Although many U.S. experts ……………..<span style="font-size: 15px;">similar measures</span>.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">And space wars causes miscalculation and war – Draws in other powers</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Mitchell et al 01</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Gordon, Associate Professor of Communication at the University of Pittsburg, July 2001. ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense no. 6, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6_paper.html. ) TJL</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">A buildup of space weapons ……………sparked by a computer glitch in space <span style="font-size: 15px;">could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen</span>.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">US First Strike decimates the environment </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Takai, 09, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force “U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, </span>[[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/uschina_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/|**http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/uschina_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/**]]<span style="font-size: 11px;">)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">What would happen if China ………….heeding by nuclear hard-liners.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">And US-Chinese space cooperation is a prerequisite to solving further ASAT deployment and miscalculation by increasing transparency</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Ressler 9</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Aaron R, Major, USAF, under the direction of Edwina S. Campbell, Ph.D, “Advancing Sino-US Space Cooperation”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA539619]])TJL</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">After reviewing Chinese counterspace ……. to the Moon and eventually pursuing a manned mission to Mars. Space is expensive, so why not share resources and capabilities in the pursuit of such activities</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">US-China war causes extinction</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hunkovic, 2009</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Lee J, American Military University 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]) TJL</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">A war between China,</span> ……., therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">A space race guts the Chinese economy</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Johnson-Freese 04</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Dr. Joan Johnson-Freese Chair, Department of National Security Studies, Naval War College 4 [ “Space Wei Qi: The Launch of Shenzhou V”[[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/ba695c64-2c13-4913-a6f5-9ebcec9aa311/Space-Wei-Qi--The-Launch-of-Shenzhou-V---Johnson-F|http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/ba695c64-2c13-4913-a6f59ebcec9aa311/Space-Wei-Qi--The-Launch-of-Shenzhou-V---Johnson-F]]) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Apparently, since <span style="font-size: 15px;">………</span>, finally, the United States want to reinforce the view that it prefers unilateralism to multilateralism?</span>
**Chinese economic collapse turns all other impacts – independently causes collapse of the global economy and US-Taiwan War**
**Lewis 8** **<span style="font-size: 11px;">– Research Director of the Economic Research Council (5/13/08, Dan, World Finance, “The Nightmare of a Chinese Economic Collapse,” http://www.worldfinance.com/news/finalbell//article117.html)//</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9px;">In 2001, Gordon Chang ………</span>__– whom America is pledged to defend.__</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">And Chinese economic collapse collapses the US economy- triggering global instability</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">China Daily 11</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (7-07-11, [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2011-07/07/content_12854822.htm]])TJL</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">The United States ………</span> which is "How do we prevent any type of military conflict with China?"</span>
//**Economic collapse causes global war and extinction**//
//**Auslin, 9****<span style="font-size: 11px;">– resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, </span>**[[@http://www.aei.org/article/100044|**http://www.aei.org/article/100044**]]**<span style="font-size: 11px;">) </span>**//
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">As they deal with a collapsing ……… international systems in the past.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Advantage 2 is US-Sino Relations</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">US-Sino relations are falling apart- China is being forced to advance space weaponization to keep up with the arms race- this ensures miscalculation and an arms race</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Neil 11</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Alexander, head of the Asia Security Programme at the Royal United Services Institute,1-11-11 “Viewpoint: A new Sino-US high-tech arms race?” [[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-12154991]]) TJL</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Beneath the veneer of ………. of uncertainty and mistrust in the region.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">China wants cooperation now – US policy is the only thing stopping productive relations </span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Martina,11</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Michael, Reuters correspondent on Chinese international affairs, “China astronaut calls for U.S. cooperation”,4/29/11, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/04/29/us-china-space-idUSTRE73S4BS20110429]])</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">(Reuters) - <span style="font-size: 15px;">China's most renowned astronaut said</span> on Friday<span style="font-size: 15px;"> ………. and its cooperative efforts with Russia and other countries possibly constituting the next best hope for the future of space exploration.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Action now is key: the US policy of exclusion creates a cold war style arms race that uniquely kills US-Sino relations </span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Jinnette, 9</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(James G., Lieutenant Colonel, Strategy Research Project, “US China Policy: Time for Robust Engagement”, p. 18-19, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA497538) TJL</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Space is another critical ………… with China in a growing international space competition, it could suffer an erosion of its leadership over the long term</span>.50</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">No cooperation over space ensures that any attempt to boost relations will fail </span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Hitchens and Chen 8</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Theresa, Center for Defense Information, World Security Institute and David, CENTRA Technology, Inc, “Forging a Sino-US ‘‘grand bargain’’ in space” Space Policy 24 (2008) pg. 128–131, Available Online at Sciencedirect.com) TJL</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">In Washington’s space security ……….. in the Pacific region.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">The ISS is key—it spills over to broader cooperation.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 17px;">Zhou 8</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Yi Zhou, Center for Space Science and Applied Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, George Washington University, "Perspectives on Sino-US cooperation in civil space programs", 7/14/08, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964608000404/avi|www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964608000404//]]])</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Benefits for geopolitical issues …………. should be readily adopted by China's policy makers to extend the two countries’ space and national benefits.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">In particular, cooperation over space is </span></span>
vital// to spur cooperation on climate change, nuclear terrorism, and space debris.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 17px;">Kulacki 11</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Gregory, a senior analyst and the China Project manager for the Union of Concerned Scientists 6/23/11, Volume 474, Nature, “US and China need contact, not cold war”, [[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/Kulacki_US-China-coop_Nature_6-23-11.pdf/sb|http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/Kulacki_US-China-coop_Nature_6-23-11.pdf//]]] )</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Some see a moral argument ……. the US public.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">And U.S.-Sino relations solve multiple scenarios for human extinction</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Cohen 9</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense, Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,”[[@http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf]])</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 11px;">The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations over the next months, years, and decades has the potential to have a greater impact on global security and prosperity than any other bilateral or multilateral arrangement. In this sense, many ……….</span>, though not inevitable, is indispensable<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Now is key – waiting will preclude US ability to cooperate with China because Chinese conservatives will take over the space program if relations stay low</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Houpt, 2011</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">( Daniel M., Master of Arts, Security Studies, Georgetown, 4-15-11, “DOES CHINA HAVE A COMREHENSIVE, COORDINATED, AND CONSISTENT SPACE POLICY? IMPLICATIONS FOR U.S. POLICYMAKERS” A Dissertation submitted to the Faculty of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences of Georgetown University in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Master of Arts in Security Studies, pg. 62 ProQuest)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Not being proactive and …………</span> prospect for U.S. interests.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Contention 3 is Solvency</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">China will say yes – Official Chinese announcements prove</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Hoffman 7 (Michael, staff editor at Daily Tech, “China wants to join International Space Station Project”10/16/7 [[http://www.dailytech.com/article.aspx?newsid=9290]])</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Chinese space officials</span> today <span style="font-size: 15px;">……..</span> could theoretically launch a missile to destroy active military satellites, though Chinese officials still claim the nation has only peaceful plans for space.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">The ISS is an underexploited resource in the fight against diseases</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Dinerman 07</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Taylor, writing for a variety of publications including Ad Astra, The Wall Street Journal and the American Spectator. He was a regular contributor with a weekly piece for Jeff Foust's Space Review and now writes for the Hudson Institute New York, “Medical research on the ISS: will it payoff at last?” 4-23-07 [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/856/1)TJL]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">Based on limited protein crystal ………..</span> company hopes to reinvent itself as entrepreneurial space manufacturer, rather than as a NASA service provider.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The United States should cooperate with China on the ISS now- solves transparency, tech theft, Russian failure, xenophobia, and keeps China focused on a civilian space program</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Chiao 9-01-11 </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Leroy, served as a NASA astronaut from 1990 to 2005 and flew four missions into space, including flights aboard the space shuttles Columbia, Endeavour and Discovery, “Make China our new partner in space” </span>[[http://edition.cnn.com/2011/OPINION/09/01/chiao.space.program.china/|**http://edition.cnn.com/2011/OPINION/09/01/chiao.space.program.china/**]]<span style="font-size: 11px;">) TJL</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 15px;">America knowingly signed on for the ………… Xenophobia and isolationism are outdated concepts</span>. Let's seize this opportunity and emerge again as a proud nation in space.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
===<span style="text-align: justify;">New Theory Contention- ASU</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Key to predictability- unlimited counterplans people can make up and experts don’t address them in the literature, undervalues their opinion and prevents in-depth discussion on them</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kagan 01, Visiting Professor @ Harvard Law, former Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy Council, 2K1 (Elena, June, “Presidential Administration”, Harvard Law Review, Vol. 114, No. 8)</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">A more difficult issue than... bring to the administrative enterprise. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Collapses democratic accountability and triggers unintended consequences in EVERY crisis facing government </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">AALEP 05, umbrella organisation for the European Parliament Lobby Corps, (May, “The Case for Lobbyists”, The Lobby Radar Vol 1 No 5, Newsletter of the Association of Accredited Lobbyists to the European Parliament)</span>**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lobbyists represent diverse citizens with...</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> __less representation and less accountability.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reduced democratic accountability causes multiple scenarios for global destruction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Boggs 97, Political Science Prof @ National University, (Carl, Dec, “The Great Retreat”, Theory and Society, Vol. 26, No. 6.)</span>**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The decline of the public...</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> had vanished from civil society.75 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">It isn’t ok if they have various cards that, put together, advocate their counterplan. The literature doesn’t respond to separate ideas that debaters can cram together. Experts just dismiss the nonsense. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hanson</span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Prof of Econ @ George Mason University, </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2K7</span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Feb 3rd, “What Evidence in Silence or Confusion”, </span>**[[http://www.overcomingbias.com/2007/02/what_evidence_i.html|**http://www.overcomingbias.com/2007/02/what_evidence_i.html**]]**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">My question is: how should ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> of my claims on the web.</span>__