[[toc]]
=Kritiks= 

==Space Mil K== 


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The idea that current modes of killing are not sufficient for accomplishing US objectives begs a bigger question: </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">What is our objective? </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The 1ac posits hegemony of the status quo as unable to satisfy the desire for control, looking for a more effective way to show the people of the United States that they are protected. Their solution is flawed: weaponizing space is a way to re-inscribe sovereignty as part of a larger project to create a world state</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Raymond **Duvall and** Jonathan **Havercroft, 2006.** Professors at University of Minnesota and University of British Columbia, respectively. Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weapons and Empire of the Future*[AD]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The significant effects of modes … the loss of the state’s “hard shell”.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This drive to justify militarization of space is rooted in an exceptionalist mindset in which things that are “American” are deemed more valuable than Others, with the primary objective of reinscribing a hard shell of sovereignty that controls what nations can and cannot do.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Raymond **Duvall and** Jonathan **Havercroft, 2006.** Professors at University of Minnesota and University of British Columbia, respectively. Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weapons and Empire of the Future*[AD]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The doctrine of …, innovation, and exceptionalism.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This hard shell is deemed necessary to protect “America” from countries such as Russia and China, but the project of space weaponization goes a step further: In order to ensure that nations do not try to rival US primacy, they are subjected to the omnipresent threat of a strike from the heavens at the whim of the sovereign state.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Raymond **Duvall and** Jonathan **Havercroft, 2006.** Professors at University of Minnesota and University of British Columbia, respectively. Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weapons and Empire of the Future*[AD]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Force application …any encountered throughout history.69</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This reduction of those on Earth to bare life is a danger too great to ignore. Failure to engage in disagreement with the preemptive is a cessation of the body to the state – the body becomes a space for absolute war in which the right to be alive is struck and resistance becomes impossible.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Irving **Goh, 2006**. Teaches philosophy at Cornell University. Disagreeing Preemptive/ Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Rancière. [AD]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">At present, the time … of killing" (Dick 1997:329).</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The aff has it backwards: creating a BMD system in space will not deter actors from striking, it will only provide an incentive for countries to create automatic death stars that will vaporize the planet without human input, turning the case. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Gordon R. **Mitchell, 2002**. Associate Professor of Communication at Pitt. “Beyond ‘With Us or With the Terrorists’” [AD]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">It is worth … of such systems to normal accidents.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">History shows how this logic of preemptive policies has failed and still do fail. Contrary to popular belief, not everyone is trying to destroy the United States, and those that try to articulate this point are alienated and wronged by the preemptive. Those wronged, the minority, must be exposed. Our alternative is to file a minority report – the dissenting opinion counter to the hegemonic ideology of the 1AC. Only through persistence and disagreement can we prevent normalization of the preemptive.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Irving **Goh, 2006**. Teaches philosophy at Cornell University. Disagreeing Preemptive/ Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Rancière. [AD]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The reality is we … so must this persistence.</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A2: Framework/util</span>=== 

**Williams**, Kristian. "Good Grief." //In These Times//. 19 Nov. 20**09**. Web. 02 July 2010. <http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/5197/good_grief/>. <span class="Underline">[AD]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Whose life is worth …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">they happen to be correct.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The hour and a half that is allotted to a debate is critical to resist the preemptive. The state cannot stand wait, and the introduction of disagreement and criticism of the preemptive is necessary in order to reclaim the right to be alive and break the unchallenged continuum of traditional politics.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Irving **Goh, 2006**. Teaches philosophy at Cornell University. Disagreeing Preemptive/ Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Rancière. [AD]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Life must not … other than but now.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A2: Democracy/Dickison</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The affirmative doesn’t know what democracy is – the attempt to indoctrinate the alternative and gather more consensus for their pre-emptive politics is the opposite of democracy. Voting negative is the only way to acknowledge the minority and engage in the true spirit of democracy by allowing for difference. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Irving **Goh, 2006**. Teaches philosophy at Cornell University. Disagreeing Preemptive/ Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Rancière. [AD]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">There is something not very … in all its forms.</span>
==Cap K== 
I'll just put up cards as we break them. We don't read generic shells 

===Link: Mining / Development=== 

**The drive to ‘mine the sky’ and subjugate resources in space for human control only serve to alienate others and re-affirm status quo social relations in outer space under the guise of ‘the final frontier.’ (more of a lacan card than cap).**
Peter **__Dickens and__** James S. **__Ormrod,__ __2007__**, Dickens is an affiliated lecturer in Sociology at the University of Cambridge and Ormrod is a senior lecturer in sociology at the university of Brighton, Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe [AD]
A final theme … present and future.

===Link: Growth/Resources/Asteroids=== 
**Their so-called benign lunar mining is not as it seems, it is just a guise for continuing the unsustainable strategy of capitalist growth**
Peter **__Dickens and__** James S. **__Ormrod,__ __2007__**, Dickens is an affiliated lecturer in Sociology at the University of Cambridge and Ormrod is a senior lecturer in sociology at the university of Brighton, Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe [AD]
The __necessity of continuing growth__ or …  __problems’__ (1997: 104).
===Link: get tha money=== 

**The aff endorses a purely instrumental understanding of the universe – it exists for human purposes.**
Peter **__Dickens and__** James S. **__Ormrod,__ __2007__**, Dickens is an affiliated lecturer in Sociology at the University of Cambridge and Ormrod is a senior lecturer in sociology at the university of Brighton, Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe [AD]
__Society’s relations with the cosmos are … social understanding.__


===<span style="color: #000000;">Impact: Ethics</span>=== 
**WE HAVE AN A PRIORI ETHICAL OBLIGATION TO REJECT THE VIOLENCE OF GLOBAL CAPITALISM. THEIR UTILITARIAN RATIONALE CANNOT ACCOUNT FOR THE DEGRADED LIFE CHANCES OF BILLIONS ACROSS THE GLOBE. THERE MAY BE SOME THINGS WORSE THAN DEATH, BUT THE SAD THING IS YOU WILL NEVER KNOW, BECAUSE CAPITALISM MAKES ITS VICTIMS ANONYMOUS.**
**Daly** 20**04**, (Glyn, Risking The Impossible) http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm
<span style="font-size: 8.66667px;">For Zizek it is imperative that we …</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> exhorts us to risk the impossible.</span>__

===Impact: Extinction=== 

**The search for answers in the cosmos to life’s fragility on Earth is motivated by dangerously repressed desire for omnipotence and immortality. The acting out of these fantasies puts all life on earth at risk.** 
Peter **__Dickens and__** James S. **__Ormrod,__ __2007__**, Dickens is an affiliated lecturer in Sociology at the University of Cambridge and Ormrod is a senior lecturer in sociology at the university of Brighton, Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe [AD]
The above accounts of … discussed further in Chapter 6. 

===1nc space alt=== 

<span class="Underline">**The alternative is to endorse resistance against capitalism as an organic intellectual.**</span>
**Only by embracing an understanding of space that does not conform to the larger project of imperial capitalism is able to stop the reproduction of hierarchies and exploitation that is present on earth on an intergalactic scale. Those who resist do not have to be disenfranchised, but rather one that recognizes and articulates the ways in which current philosophy of space exploration is leading humanity on a path to destruction.**
Peter **__Dickens__** __**and**__ James S. **__Ormrod__**__,__ **__2007__**, Dickens is an affiliated lecturer in Sociology at the University of Cambridge and Ormrod is a senior lecturer in sociology at the university of Brighton, Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe [AD]
Von Braun therefore spoke … __that does not further empower the__ already __powerful.__