[[toc]]
=Politics= 
==Greenhill RR - SKFTA= 
=1NC UQ= 
**Will pass – but is contingent on Obama’s push**
**Palmer, 9/2 –** Reuters Reporter (Doug, “Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall,” [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]]) JV

(Reuters) - After a slow start that has frustrated U.S. business groups, the next four months could be important to President Barack Obama's legacy on trade.
Obama has a goal of doubling U.S. exports by 2014 but he has not moved as aggressively as his Republican predecessor, George W. Bush, to open markets abroad.
This month business groups expect Obama at long last to submit three Bush-era free trade pacts with South Korea, Colombia and Panama to Congress for approval.
"We're quite confident" that Congress has the votes needed to approve the pact, said Frank Vargo, vice president for international economic affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers.
Successful passage by Congress would burnish Obama's free trade credentials and boost talks on a regional free trade agreement that the White House hopes will establish "21st Century" trade rules in the fast-growing Asia-Pacific region.
The plan is for Obama and leaders of the eight other "Trans-Pacific Partnership" countries to shake hands on the broad outlines of a deal in November when the United States hosts the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit.
The proposed pact would build existing U.S. free trade deals with Australia, Chile, Singapore and Peru into a regional free trade pact that includes Malaysia, Vietnam, New Zealand and Brunei Darussalam.
Japan, Canada, South Korea, the Philippines and Thailand have also expressed interest in eventually joining the pact.
LABOR OPPOSITION
Still, Congress' approval of the South Korea, Colombia and Panama deals is not assured.
Richard Trumka, president of the AFL-CIO labor federation which opposes the deals, boasted on Wednesday that opponents may have the votes to stop the pacts, which they see as a threat to U.S. jobs. "I think we have a real shot at it," Trumka said.
In addition to the challenge from organized labor, Obama must persuade Republicans focusing on spending cuts to renew a retraining program for displaced workers known as Trade Adjustment Assistance. This is critical to gaining enough Democratic votes in the Senate to approve the trade pacts.
Republican opposition to TAA "makes our job, quite frankly, a little bit easier, because no one is going to support those trade agreements without TAA," said Trumka.
Democrats like House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senator Charles Schumer also have signaled plans to push for a vote on legislation to pressure China to revalue its currency in conjunction with the free trade pacts.
That would inflame relations with Beijing and possibly trigger tit-for-tat trade retaliation if Obama does not expend political capital to block it.
The early start of the 2012 U.S. election campaigns, however, may dampen Obama's appetite to lead aggressively on trade.
But "if the administration spends the effort and actually finishes the job (the trade deals) with Congress, that will send a very positive signal," said Jeffrey Schott, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.

==2NC UQ== 
**Will pass – Obama’s push and bipartisan support**
**Oosting, 9/9 –** Senior Producer for MLive (Jonathan, “Obama pushes action on free trade: 'I want to see folks in South Korea driving Fords',” [[http://www.mlive.com/auto/index.ssf/2011/09/obama_pushes_action_on_free_tr.html]]) JV

It appears Democrats and Republicans in Washington actually agree on something: the need for new free trade agreements with South Korea, Panama and Columbia.
But true to form, politics have stalled policy that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce says will boost American exports and create up to 380,000 jobs.
Both parties have signaled wide-spread support for the agreements, but Democrats have refrained from introducing legislation as they await Republican support for the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which would use federal funds to help retrain workers who lost their jobs because of increased imports or outsourcing.
Outlining his jobs proposal last night, Obama called for Congress to pass the trade agreements, which he linked to ongoing global expansion of the auto industry, and the job retraining program.

**Will pass – business groups experts**
**Palmer, 8/9 –** Reuters Reporter (Doug, “U.S. group says confident of trade deals approval” [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/08/us-usa-trade-deals-idUSTRE7874WE20110908]]) JV

(Reuters) - A top U.S. business group on Thursday said it expected President Barack Obama and Congress to work together to approve three long-delayed free trade agreements in the next six to eight weeks.
"We're confident we'll get this done," said John Murphy, vice president for international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has clashed with Obama on issues like health care and financial regulatory reform.
Murphy told reporters the business group has been laying the groundwork for years for votes on the trade pacts with South Korea, Colombia and Panama, which together are expected to boost U.S. exports by about $13 billion.
He declined to give a vote tally, but said the business group knew where most lawmakers stood on the pacts.
The chamber will make a push to ensure the deals are approved before Obama hosts an annual meeting of leaders from the Asia-Pacific region in mid-November, Murphy said.


=SSA - Data Sharing Bad= 
===Adversaries will take advtange of the information connectedness SSA affords=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Metz 2000- Steven Metz, Research Professor of National Security Affairs in the Strategic Studies Institute, ARMED CONFLICT in the 21st CENTURY: the INFORMATION REVOLUTION and POST-MODERN WARFARE April 2000 http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/ssi/metz_info_rev.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Interconnectedness also means that future enemies will have a potential constituency within the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates. This is not to imply that émigré communities are automatic breeding grounds for “third columnists.” But immigrants or even native-born children or grandchildren of immigrants can, in some cases, retain a tie to their ethnic homeland which can lead them to lobby for or against American military involvement, as did Serbian Americans during the first stages of the 1999 air campaign. This increases the pressure on American policymakers and military leaders to minimize casualties if the use of force becomes necessary. Émigré communities can also provide logistics and intelligence support for terrorists. Interconnectedness will make protection against terrorism more difficult.</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The U.S. Department of Defense</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and the military services </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">hold that speed, knowledge, and precision will minimize casualties and lead to the rapid resolution of wars</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, thus minimizing the problems associated with the challenges to the political utility of force. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">States with fewer intellectual and financial resources</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> than the United States </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">will not have the luxury of using technology</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as a palliative for the strategic problems associated with interconnectedness and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">thus must seek other solutions</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. One such response has been renewed interest in multinational peacekeeping. The idea is that </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">containing or deterring armed conflict limits the chances of full blown</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> war. Some states may turn instead to strategies of passive defense. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">One of the dilemmas of interconnectedness is that what happens in one place affects many others</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">but explaining this to mass publics remains difficult</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Aggressive states or </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">non-state actors will also have to find ways to transcend the constraints brought on by interconnectedness</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Some will rely onproxy conflict</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, providing surreptitious or, at least, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">quiet support to insurgents, militias, or terrorists whose activities further the aims of the sponsoring</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> state. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Some may attempt</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> hidden or </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">camouflaged aggression, particularly cyberwarfare aimed at the information systems </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">of their enemies. Some—particularly those which find their ambitions blunted by the United States—will turn to political methods, ceding battlefield superiority to the American military while seeking to constrict Washington through legal and political means. America’s military advantages, after all, are not always matched by an equal political and diplomatic superiority. Because globalization and interconnectedness erode the control which regimes can exercise within their states, those </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">with a shaky hold on power will often seek scapegoats but will sometimes turn to the time-tested method of solidifying internal unity by external aggression as well</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Since globalization and interconnectedness raise the political and economic cost of protracted war, regimes which seek to deflect internal discontent through external 18 aggression will probably seek lightening campaigns, seizing something before the international community can reach consensus on intervention. Future actions like the Iraqi seizure of Kuwait are not out of the question, at least for states which believe that the United States cannot or will not stop them. Whether the United States can be deterred from intervention by weapons of mass destruction or terrorism is one of the central questions for the future global security environment. </span>
===Information availability increases the likelihood for conflict- allows weaker states to predict the outcome of war=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jackson and Eberle 9</span>- Matthew O. Jackson, William D. Eberle Professor of Economics at Stanford University, Massimo Morelli, Professor of Economics and Political Science at Columbia University, The Reasons for Wars – an Updated Survey, Revised: December 2009 http://www.stanford.edu/~jacksonm/war-overview.pdf

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Asymmetries of information can arise from a variety of sources. It could be an asymmetry of information about the relative strengths of the countries either because of differences in what they know about each other's armaments, quality of military personnel and tactics, determination, geography, political climate, or even just about the relative probability of different outcomes. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The possibility of a bargaining failure due to asymmetric information has a solid foundation in economi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">cs, and was made very clear in work by Myerson and Satterthwaite (1983). To see the basic insights in the context of war, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">suppose that there are two countries and one of them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, referred to as c</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">ountry A, has unknown strength</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In particular, suppose </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">that country A can either be strong or weak with equal probability in the eyes of the other country</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Imagine that war involves a relatively small cost</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that the victor in a war gains control of all resources, and </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">that war results in one of the two countries conquering the other</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Suppose that if country A is strong then it wins a war with probability 3/4and if it is weak it wins with probability 1/</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">4. So, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">in order to always avoid a war, an agreement must provide the strong version of country A with at least 3/4 of all resources less the cost of war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (in expectation, presuming it maximizes expected payoff). </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Now the asymmetry of information enter</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s: </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">a weak version of country A cannot be distinguished from a strong one by country B.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">if the strong version of country Aalways gets at least 3/4 of the resources less the cost of war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">since a weak version of the country cannot be distinguished from a strong version</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by country B, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">a weak version of country A must also expect at least 3/4 of the total resources</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> less the cost of war, as </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">it can mimic a strong version of the country and get a high payoff without risk of war.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This means that country B must get at most 1/4 of all resources plus the cost of war. If </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the cost of war is low enough, then the country B is better off simply going to war and taking its chances rather than reaching such an unfavorable bargain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This is obviously a highly stylized example, but </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">it encapsulates the difficulties with bargaining in the face of asymmetric informati</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">on. Generally, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">it may be difficult for a weak country to pretend to be a strong one</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">there can </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">still be </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">some degree of asymmetric information across countries</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and even lesser asymmetries </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">can make it impossible to find agreements that all parties will agree to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in all circumstances. It is important to note that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">imperfect information about the opponent's resolve or strength is a source of conflic</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">t </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">that does notrequire any</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> violation of common knowledge of </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">rationality</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The above reasoning is such that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">all the actors are fully rational</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, understand the setting, and fully comprehend all of its implications. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is also clear that the countries would like to avoid the difficult</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">y. In particular, a strong version of country A would like to be able to distinguish itself from the weak version. If it could credibly demonstrate its strength, that would solve the problem. That is, if strength can be revealed peacefully and credibly (even at some minor cost), then there is a bargain which works as follows: if country A reveals strength, then it gets 3/4 of all resources and if it does not reveal its strength then it is presumed to be weak and only gets 1/4 of all resources. This solves the incentive problem as the weak version of country A can no longer pretend to be strong. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Weakness is presumed unless evidence is presented to the contrary</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This provides some insight into why countries might be willing to demonstrate arms</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (for instance publicly testing nuclear devices, holding military parades and exercises in observable settings, and so forth). There might be other settings where hiding strength is advantageous because bargaining is precluded,8 but in settings where binding agreements can be reached there are powerful incentives for the strongest types to reveal their strength to distinguish themselves from weaker types and to cement their bargaining position. Moreover, this is not limited to settings with just two potential strengths. Even with many different gradations of strength, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the strongest wants to reveal itse</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">lf, and then the next strongest will want to reveal itself, and so forth </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">and this then unravels so all but the weakest types want to distinguish themselves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">So this is robust to much richer information environments than the example above. With such asymmetries of information</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">whether war will occur will depend on the extent to which</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the private</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> information</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of individuals </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">can be credibly revealed or not</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as well </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">as how relevant the private information is to forecasting the outcome of a war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">If it is really impossible to fully and credibly reveal informationand such information iscritical to predicting the outcome of a potential war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, it can be that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">bargaining will fail and war must be expected with at least some probability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. An early paper providing a model of war decisions with asymmetrically informed countries, and pointing out that a</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">n uninformed country may sometimes have to go to war to avoid bluffing behavior by an informed country</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, is Brito and Intriligator (1985). The form of information asymmetry discussed above concerns potential outcomes of a war. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">A second</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> information-based </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">reason for a bargaining failure is that agents have inconsistent beliefs.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For example, it could be that two </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">states each are optimistic and are convinced that they will benefit from a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> war. In these cases </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">war can erupt, as long as the inconsistency of beliefs is large enough to compensate for the cost of war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For instance, if both parties expect to win a war with a high enough probability, then there would not exist any agreement that avoids war.9 The possibility and examples of wars that are attributed to such miscalculations or errors due to lack of information or to different priors about relative power have been discussed informally by Blainey (1973), Gartzke (1999), Wagner (2000), Smith and Stam (2003), among others. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">A third form of information asymmetry concerns incomplete information about the motivations of other agen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ts. Here it is believed that there is some probability that the other actor might be irrational.10 This includes spiraling models such as those discussed in Waltz (1959) and Schelling (1963), and more recently Kydd (1997). These ideas have been elaborated and extended upon by Baliga and Sjöström (2004) and subsequent works</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">. The idea common to these works is that even a small probability of being faced by an armed irrational foe can lead a rational country to arm to some leve</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">l. In turn, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">this now means that either a foe who is irrational, or a foe who thinks that I might be irrational will be arming, and this then leads me to arm even more, and this feedback continues to build</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Depending on the specifics of the payoffs to arming and potential conflict, it </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">can be that the rational countries each arm to very high levels and are ready to attack first because of the fear that the other side may attack first</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In some cases, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">communication can help overcome this problem</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, since it can be in both countries’ interests to be known to be rational, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">but this depends on the specifics of the setting and the type of communicati</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">on available,as Baliga and Sjöström (2009) show. </span>