Neg case
Value: Morality
-Gert, Bernard, "The definition of Morality", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (2011)//. "The term 'morality'...all rational persons".
-Hinma, Lawrence M., Professor of Philosophy at University of San DIego, ethicsmatters.net. "the purpose of...a better place".
Criterion: Adhering to Social Contract
Analysis: Gov. obligation to assist people in need.
Plato, //Republic//. "Each person must... with his nature". "The desires of... the decent few".
Contention: Individuals do not hold the moral obligation to help people in need.
A: Individuals cannot effectively assist.
Corbett, Bob, Moral Obligations to distant others (Fall 1995). "There is so... needs of others".
B: Governments can provide effective assistance.
Goodin, Robert E., Demandingness as a virtue, Springer Science+Business Media, 2008. "Thomas Pogge offers... sense or another".

Aff Case
Black's Law. "A duty which... of the conscience".
Oxford English Dictionary. "a state or... on well being".
Value: Morality
Lee, Patrick and George, Robert P., The Nature and Basis of Human Dignity. "In addition, by... full moral worth".
Criterion: Respecting Rational Pursuits
Gottlieb, Roger S., Worcester Polytechnic, Ethics and Trauma; Levinas, Feminism and Deep Ecology, Summer 1994. "What motivates Levinas... to this conclusion".
Simmons, A. John, Tacit Consent and Political Obligations. "Consent is called... ayes and nayes".
C1: Social Inequalities bad.
Steinberger, Peter J., Desert and Justice in Rawls. "Second, the distribution... differential moral worth".
Pevnick, Ryan, Political Coercion and the Scope of Distributive Justice. "Indeed, near the... his life prospects".
Villadsen, Kaspar, Emergence of Neophilanthropy, September 2007. "The neo-philanthropic... their self perception".
C2: Entrenches social despondency.
Petrovic, Neven, Personal Assets and Justice. "The existing distribution... point of view".
Sadurski, Wojchiech, Giving Desert its due. "These social disadvantages... of his own".
C3: Acting out of obligation better.
Journal of Strategic Action, 2000. "Recent research suggests... the pubic good.