[[toc]]
=Email: [[mailto:jonassplacitis@gmail.com|jonassplacitis@gmail.com]]= 

=1AC - w/ New Advantage (Broken Finals of Woodward)= 

===Plan Text=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should deploy a ballistic missile defense system beyond the earth’s mesosphere</span>

===Contention 1: Inherency=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space militarization and weaponization are inevitable </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. China is targeting US satellites that have advantages because they view them as weapons</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Space Review 11/14</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(“Staring into the eyes of the Dragon.”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1]]</span>, 11/14/11)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first speaker was ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">vulnerabilities as the Americans.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B. </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space diplomacy fails – full risk that weaponization will happen</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">MICHAEL **__KREPON__**, March 6th, **__2012__** ( co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, “Toward a Space Code of Conduct”, World Politics Review, <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/11680/toward-a-space-code-of-conduct]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">__Space diplomacy has only__ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> a change in administrations</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">C. It’s human nature</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mueller 2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – senior political scientist at the RAND specializes in research related to military and national security strategy (Karl, “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?”, __http://isanet.ccit.arizona.edu/noarchive/mueller.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The simplest inevitability argument ... will be later in this essay.</span>

===Contention 2: China=== 

Same as below.

===Contention 3: War=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We’ll Isolate 2 Scenarios for Conflict:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We’re on the brink now – Iran is rapidly proliferating and is not deterred by any type of diplomacy or sanctions, they are weeks from being able to shoot nuclear weapons</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kahlili 2/11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Reza, former CIA operative in Iran’s Revolutionary Guard, senior fellow with EMPact America, teacher at the U.S. Department of Defense’s Joint Counter-intelligence Training Academy, “COUNTDOWN! IRAN'S FINGER ON NUCLEAR TRIGGER”, [[http://www.wnd.com/2012/02/countdown-irans-finger-on-nuclear-trigger/]], 2/11/12)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Iranian nuclear experts <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span> economy, it is the ideology.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">That causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">AP 11/9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Associated Press, Ali Akbar Dareini, “Iran vows no retreat from nuclear path”, [[http://www.boston.com/news/world/middleeast/articles/2011/11/09/ahmadinejad_iran_wont_retreat_from_nuclear_path/]], 11/9/11) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">TEHRAN, Iran—President Mahmoud ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> beyond,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">" he said on France's RFI radio. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. High risk of U.S. Russia miscalc in the status quo</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rose 2/29</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (William, political columnist at the Huffington Post and Global Zero student leader, “The Unfathomable Cost of the United States Nuclear Program”, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/william-rose/nuclear-weapons_b_1308425.html]], 2/29/12)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">20,500 — that is the number of ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> need to destroy the world?</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Russian and US safeguards will fail</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Martin 8</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> – </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Matt Martin research analyst at Stanley foundation (nonpartisan think tank) 2008 p.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?id=498]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">, BBQ)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It should be shocking that nearly ... avoid an accidental nuclear war.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">That outweighs - It’s the only existential risk</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">)</span>

A much greater existential risk ...<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> will encounter in the 21st century.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Contention 4: Cruise Missiles</span>=== 


**Brilliant pebbles solve cruise missiles and are the most efficient way to defend against nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Canavan et al. 09</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( 2009 Report, Gregory H. Canavan Ph.D director of the Office of Inertial Fusion and special assistant to the chief of staff at the Department of Energy, Missilethreat.com- Project of the Claremont Institute “ Brilliant Pebbles” http://www.missilethreat.com/missiledefensesystems/id.13/system_detail.asp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Brilliant Pebbles </span><span class="underline">made significant ...</span> chemical, and biological warheads<span class="underline">.</span>


**The longer we wait the worse cruise missile threats grow—destroys U.S. air power, U.S. naval power, and causes nuclear terrorist attacks—it also causes the U.S. to have to withdraw forces abroad**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Kueter and Kier, 07</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – *President of the George C. Marshall Institute AND **Vice President of Lockheed Martin Corporation (*Jeff AND** David, 7/9/07, "The Cruise Missile Challenge", p. 6-11, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">So what is a cruise missile? There ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> it</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Thank you for your time.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Air power maintains peace in Korea—the alternative is war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bechtol, 05</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Ph.D. (Bruce, Air and Space Power Journal, “The Future of U.S. Airpower on the Korean Peninsula,” Fall, <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/fal05/bechtol.html]]</span>)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transformation has come to the ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> on the Korean Peninsula.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">STRATFOR 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula, KONTOPOULOS)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">So </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the real issue is</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> situation escalates much further.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bioweapons cause extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, ... EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Naval power deters great power wars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Conway, Roughead and Allen, 07 – *</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, October 2007, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower”, p. 8-10, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> and with nuclear forces.</span>__**


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**__Contention 5: Solvency__**</span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brilliant pebbles is the best option for defense against attacks </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bendikova, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michaela, 8/1/11, Research Assistant of the Heritage Foundation, Research Fellow at the International Institute of Political Science, M.S. in Defense and Strategic studies at Missouri State U, “A Good Step for NATO Missile Defense—from France”, 9/15/11)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The French Senate Committee on ... development of missile defenses. </span>


**Brilliant pebbles can be deployed by 2012 and has political will**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">IWG 9</span>__**, “Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century 2009 Report,” Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, 20__09__, p. 129.

Using an event-driven procurement ...<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> in inflation-adjusted 2008 dollars.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">21st century MAD doesn’t work – irrationality proves we need a missile defense system to deter conflict and hit missiles</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">May 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Clifford D., President of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, Chairman of the Policy Committee of the Committee on the Present Danger (CPD), masters degrees from both Columbia University's School of Public and International Affairs and its School of Journalism, “MAD in the 21st Century”, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/271238/mad-21st-century-clifford-d-may]], 7/7/11) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">On</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Tuesday, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">June 28</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, ... and readily deployable system. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space BMD prevents arms race, prolif, solves instability, and deters conflict even in the development stage – means we solve once the plan is passed. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">IFPA 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Sponsored by the American Foreign Policy Council, the Marshall Institute, Heritage, Claremont, Missouri State University, et al, “Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century’s 2009 Report,” https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf, EMM)</span>

American missile defense will ...<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. government after 1993.10 </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Failure is impossible – even if missile defense doesn’t work it increases the capability of existing systems and data</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Frederick 09</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Lt Col Lorinda A. Frederick, USAF. Lt Col Lorinda A. Frederick, USAF (BA, Michigan State University; MBA, Regis University; Master of Military Operational Art and Science, Air Command and Staff College; Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies) is assigned to the Air Force Concepts, Strategy, and Wargaming Division, Headquarters US Air Force. She has served as a flight commander and instructor in intercontinental ballistic missile and missile warning squadrons. “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense” Air & Space Power Journal - Fall 2009. [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/fal09/frederick.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cooperation on missile defense initiatives ... policies necessary to deter threats. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brilliant Pebbles solves all counter-measures – gives us the ability to stay on top of new technology</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mooney 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Kevin, staff writer for CNS News. “Space-Based Missile Defense Needed to Counter Global Threats, Experts Say” http://www.cnsnews.com/public/Content/Article.aspx?rsrcid=36145)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Only a space-based missile defense system ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> over the long term.</span>



=1AC - GPS III (Broken Quarters of Woodward)= 

===Plan Text=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should develop and deploy a full Global Positioning Satellite system using GPS III satellites.</span>**

===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>**=== 

**They’re procuring GPS II satellites in the status quo – those will have shortened lives and fail**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inside GNSS 3-1</span>__** (“GPS Program Budget: A Lot, But Is It Enough?” http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2965)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The details of President Obama’s ... be borne by Boeing. </span>


**Based on current funding, four GPS III satellites will be produced**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">GPS.gov 12</span> ( Official U.S. Government information about the Global Positioning System (GPS) and related topics. “Space Segment.” 1-31. [[@http://www.gps.gov/systems/gps/space/#III|http://www.gps.gov/systems/gps/space/#III]])

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Currently under development ... military and civilian users alike. </span>



**Lockheed Martin is under contract to build 4 GPS III satellites but they’re capable of replacing the whole constellation 4 satellites at a time – means all your disads are non-unique**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Denver Post 2-22</span>__**(“Lockheed opens GPS III processing facility in Jeffco” http://www.denverpost.com/business/ci_20015258)


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Global Positioning System ...</span> of GPS II satellites.


Large-scale GPS III procurement isn’t guaranteed because of budget cuts – Boeing is offering super cheap Block IIFs
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thompson 11</span>__**<span style="background-color: white;">(</span>Loren Thompson is the chief operating officer of the Lexington Institute. “Battle Brewing Over Future Of GPS Constellation” http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/battle-brewing-over-future-of-gps-constellation)

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of Defense ...</span> long-term fiscal challenges may be.

===Contention 2: Maritime Power=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The risks of jamming and spoofing of GPS are rising every year</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Roberts 2/23</span> (John, former Chief White House Correspondent, University of Toronto, new anchor and journalist, “GPS at risk from terrorists, rogue nations, and $50 jammers, expert warns”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2012/02/23/gps-emerging-threat/?test=latestnews]], 2/23/12)

The Global Positioning System<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> guides ... sometimes has unintended consequences. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">That specifically collapses maritime power</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Williams 2/23</span> (Alison, retired yacht circumnavigator [25 years] published by Pablo Avanzini, retired naval officer [24 years], “Maritime GPS Navigation at Risk from Jammers and Spoofers”, [[http://www.pabloavanzini.com/maritime-gps-navigation-at-risk-from-jammers-and-spoofers/]], 2/23/12)
Marine navigation all over ... less than a thousand euros.


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Whiteneck and Clark</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In light of global economic and ... indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>


**<span style="background-color: white;">Maritime power key to US military primacy and global stability</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cropsey, 10</span>__**, “Seth, Senior Fellow Seth Cropsey began his career in government at the Defense Department as Assistant to the Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger and subsequently served as Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy in the Reagan and Bush administrations, where he was responsible for the Navy’s position on efforts to reorganize DoD, development of the maritime strategy, the Navy’s academic institutions, naval special operations, and burden-sharing with NATO allies. In the Bush administration, Cropsey moved to OSD to become acting assistant secretary, and then principal deputy assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict. Ebb Tide, September/October” www.the-american-interest.com/ article.cfm?piece=858

<span style="background-color: white;">O</span>nly one statement can ... weakness would be an invitation to calamity.


**Maritime power solves Arctic conflict—reassures Canadian-US Arctic alliance**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Posner 07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Eric, professor of law at the University of Chicago, is co-author of "The Limits of International Law, “The New Race for the Arctic”<span style="color: #000099;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB118610915886687045.html?mod=opinion_main_commentaries]]</span>)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Melting polar ice</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and the ... **__U.S. and Canada are natural allies__**.</span>


**Unchecked Arctic competition goes nuclear**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Staples 09</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Rideau Institute: Danish Institute for International Studies (Steven Staples, August 10, 2009, “Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone”,<span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The fact is, **__the Arctic__** ... **__or use of nuclear weapons.”__**</span>


**Maritime power also deters Iran**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Klare 3/2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael T., Five college professor of Peace and World Security studies, Defense correspondent at //The Nation// magazine, on the Board of Directors of Human Rights Watch, “America’s maritime power”, [[http://mondediplo.com/2012/03/06uspacific]], 3/2/12)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Obama and Panetta ,..</span>.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from China and other rising powers.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons sparks a massive arms race – mutually assured destruction is dead</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 3/2</span> (George, retired senator of 15 years, senate majority leader for 6 years, currently serves as co-chair of the Housing Commission at the Bipartisan Policy Center, “Former Sen. Mitchell: Nuclear Iran Would Ignite Worldwide Arms Race”, [[http://americannewsreport.com/former-sen-mitchell-nuclear-iran-would-ignite-worldwide-arms-race-8813376.html]], 3/2/12)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Few U.S. Senators in ...</span> people all around the world.


**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">That causes global nuclear war and extinction</span></span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Primakov 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, 9/08)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>Middle East conflict is ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> completely rule out such a possibility.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Iran Prolif is uniquely bad</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. MAD fails to deter them</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sagan 7</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Scott, Professor of political science-Stanford, ”A nuclear Iran”, Journal of international affairs, Spring/summer 2007, Vol. 60 Issue 2, RSW)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"><Thank you for this ... from getting nuclear weapons.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B. Iran uniquely unstable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Burns 10 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Federal Information and News Dispatch, Secretary for Political Affairs, June 23, http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?index=1&did=20 63854361&SrchMode=2& sid=11&Fmt=3&VInst=PROD&VType=PQD&RQT=309&V Name=PQD&TS=1277322922&clientId=87, June 23 2010, proquest, LB)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"><</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">passage of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">United Nations <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span> brutal repression of its own citizens</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.></span>


===Contention 3: Readiness=== 

**Jamming kills accurate GPS timing**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ghioni 2/24</span> (Fabio, Strategic Advisor for USFG, expert in global security and technology, “GPS jamming: a clear and present reality”, [[http://www.fabioghioni.net/blog/2012/02/24/gps-jamming-a-clear-and-present-reality/]], 2/24/12)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A secret network of 20 ... we prevent others using them,” says Curry.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">GPS timing is critical to the military and readiness</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">DM 12</span> (Defense Management Journal news service, “Next generation GPS”, [[http://www.defencemanagement.com/article.asp?id=342&content_name=ICT&article=10234]], 2012)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">GPS permeates almost every ...</span> not function without it.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Readiness is key to deter attacks and sustain stability</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feaver 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Political Science at Duke, Peter D., Armed Services: Agency, Oversight, and Civil-Military Relations, p.5</span>

__The civil-military problematique ...__ __in the ultimate military contest.__


**GPS guarantees operational superiority in all combat**
Medlock 08 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“Worldwide Influence of GPS and the Challenges Ahead,” TSgt Theresa A., Lead Specialist Missile Warning Support Element, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf)</span>

The use of GPS data ... new technology advances take hold.


**Military Readiness plays a critical role in continuing the battle against terrorism**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kan 2/13</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Shirley A., Specialist in Asian Security Affairs, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments”, [[http://eastern-asia.blogspot.com/2012/02/guam-us-defense-deployments.html]], 2/13/12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since 2000, the </span>U.S. military ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> issues related to the defense buildup.</span>


**A terrorist attack causes global nuclear war**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and ...</span> the chances of nuclear restraint.


===Contention 4: Timing=== 

**2 scenarios for conflict:**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Timing is key to the power-grid</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">NCO 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Coordination Office for Space-based positioning, Navigation, and Timing, “Timing”, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.gps.gov/applications/timing/]]</span>, 12/28/11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to longitude, latitude, and altitude ...will remain free and available to the entire world.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Collapse of the power grid causes nuclear meltdown, that means extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> International Business Times 11</span> (Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What happens when there's no electricity? ... small fraction of the total population.</span>


**2. GPS checks back clandestine nuclear testing**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schwarz 11</span> (Yannick, Online marketing manager at Quantum Networks, “GPS Can Be Used to Track Clandestine Nuclear Explosions”, [[http://goinggps.com/gps-can-be-used-to-track-clandestine-nuclear-explosions/]], 6/8/11)

A team of American researchers ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> hopefully </span>prevent them in the end.


**That causes the earth to implode from nuclear radiation**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chalko 03</span> (“Can a Neutron Bomb accelerate Global Volcanic Activity?” Tom J. Chalko, MSc, PhD., Head of Geophysics Division, http://sci-e-research.com/neutron_bomb.html)

Consequences of using<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> modern ... </span>cause the entire planet to explode.

===Contention 5: Solvency=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">GPS III satellites can be up in 2014 and solves jamming and spoofing</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">UPI 1/16</span> (United Press International news service, “Lockheed building more GPS III satellites”, [[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2012/01/16/Lockheed-building-more-GPS-III-satellites/UPI-25391326723087/]], 1/16/12)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEWTOWN, Pa., Jan. 16 (UPI) -- The </span>third and fourth ... for the system is scheduled for 2014


**Immediate implementation of a full GPS III system is uniquely key to solve – current plans to continue using Block 2F increase the risk of all of our advantages**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thompson 11</span>__**(Loren Thompson is the chief operating officer of the Lexington Institute. He is a consultant to GPS 3 prime contractor Lockheed Martin. “There is No Alternative to GPS 3.” [[http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/111128-no-alternative-gps.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. federal budget has entered ...</span> a vital national asset.










=1AC - IHSA= 

===Plan Text=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should deploy a ballistic missile defense system beyond the earth’s mesosphere</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space militarization and weaponization is inevitable</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. China is targeting any US satellites that have advantages because they view them as weapons</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Space Review 11/14</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(“Staring into the eyes of the Dragon.”, [[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1|__http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1__]], 11/14/11)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first speaker was Kevin Pollpeter, ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> same vulnerabilities as the Americans.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B. </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space diplomacy fails – full risk that weaponization will happen</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">MICHAEL **__KREPON__**, March 6th, **__2012__** ( co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, “Toward a Space Code of Conduct”, World Politics Review, <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/11680/toward-a-space-code-of-conduct]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space diplomacy has only ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> risk after a change in administrations</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>





<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">C. It’s human nature</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mueller 2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – senior political scientist at the RAND specializes in research related to military and national security strategy (Karl, “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?”, __http://isanet.ccit.arizona.edu/noarchive/mueller.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The simplest inevitability ... be later in this essay.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Contention 2: China</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">China is pursuing offensive ballistic missile and counter-space measures that can destroy every aspect of space power.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">TPM 11/16</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Talking Points Memo news, “U.S. China Satellite Hacking Report Published.” http://idealab.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/11/us-satellite-hacking-report-published.php)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s military space ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and com- munications links.”</span>__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The solution against China is to build a powerful BMD system.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kleinberg 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Howard</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April 2011. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'networK': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” p. Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, ... to stop any ASAT.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GPS is critical to disaster mitigation and response</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Thomas 8 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Nikolai, “GIS and Disaster Management: A case of Jamaica”, [[http://www.cuso.org/_files/Jamaica_Risk_GIS_Ngignac_e.pdf]], 2/2/8)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sid-Ahmed 5 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Until recently, the threat Nature ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> advance are added to the equation.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">GPS is key to the power grid</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">NCO 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (National Coordination Office for Space-based positioning, Navigation, and Timing, “Timing”, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.gps.gov/applications/timing/]]</span>, 12/28/11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to longitude, ... free and available to the entire world.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Collapse of the power grid causes nuclear meltdown, that means extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> IBT 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">But the real kicker ... fraction of the total population.</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">DNA data from GPS is key to understand and prevent future diseases</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">EZ 11 </span>**</span>(Earthzine, Earth observation and global awareness news network, “Tracking Typhoid: How DNA and GPS Partner to Prevent Disease”, [[http://www.earthzine.org/2011/11/11/tracking-typhoid-how-dna-and-gps-partner-to-prevent-disease/]], 11/11/11)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Every year, Nepal witnesses ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> studies of other threatening illnesses.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Greger 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Michael, M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Senate Majority Leader </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Frist describes ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> whilst passing a graveyard.”</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Contention 3: War </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We’ll Isolate 2 Scenarios for Conflict:</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1. Iran is proliferating now</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reuters 12 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Reuters News Service, “Iran defiant as U.N. nuclear talks fail”, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/22/us-iran-nuclear-idUSTRE81K1ZF20120222]]</span>, 2/22/12)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In a defiant response, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Supreme ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> discussions about its nuclear activities.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2 impacts:</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">They’re going to attack, that causes extinction</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">AP 11/9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Associated Press, Ali Akbar Dareini, “Iran vows no retreat from nuclear path”, [[http://www.boston.com/news/world/middleeast/articles/2011/11/09/ahmadinejad_iran_wont_retreat_from_nuclear_path/]], 11/9/11) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">TEHRAN, Iran—President Mahmoud ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> beyond,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">" he said on France's RFI radio. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons sparks a massive arms race</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 3/2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (George, retired senator of 15 years, senate majority leader for 6 years, currently serves as co-chair of the Housing Commission at the Bipartisan Policy Center, “Former Sen. Mitchell: Nuclear Iran Would Ignite Worldwide Arms Race”, [[http://americannewsreport.com/former-sen-mitchell-nuclear-iran-would-ignite-worldwide-arms-race-8813376.html]], 3/2/12)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Few U.S. Senators in recent ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> all around the world.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">That causes global nuclear war and extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Primakov 9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, 9/08)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Middle East conflict is ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">rule out such a possibility.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. High risk of U.S. Russia miscalc in the status quo</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rose 2/29</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (William, political columnist at the Huffington Post and Global Zero student leader, “The Unfathomable Cost of the United States Nuclear Program”, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/william-rose/nuclear-weapons_b_1308425.html]], 2/29/12)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">20,500 — that is the number of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">nuclear ... to need to destroy the world?</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">That outweighs - It’s the only existential risk</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">)</span>

A much greater existential risk ...<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> encounter in the 21st century.</span>


===Contention 4: Heg=== 

**Same as below.**

===**Contention 5: Solvency**=== 

**Same as below.**


=1AC - Hoflo= 

===Plan Text=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should deploy a ballistic missile defense system beyond the earth’s mesosphere</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space militarization and weaponization is inevitable because of U.S. perception</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. China is targeting any US satellites that have advantages because they view them as weapons</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Space Review 11/14</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(“Staring into the eyes of the Dragon.”, [[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1|__http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1__]], 11/14/11)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first speaker was Kevin Pollpeter, ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> same vulnerabilities as the Americans.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Countries __perceive__ U.S. as weaponizing now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brown, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University (Trevor, Spring 2009, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The problem for the United States is...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> hard power (i.e., the ability to coerce).8</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Space is being militarized in order to counter the United States</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lynn 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">- William J. Lynn III , U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, (2011): A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment, The Washington Quarterly, 34:3, 7-16 To link to this article: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0163660X.2011.586933|__http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0163660X.2011.586933__]] hnasser</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">During the Cold War</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, space largely ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">capable of countering U.S. space capabilities.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 2: China</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">China is pursuing offensive ballistic missile and counter-space measures that can destroy every aspect of space power.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">TPM 11/16</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Talking Points Memo news, “U.S. China Satellite Hacking Report Published.” http://idealab.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/11/us-satellite-hacking-report-published.php)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s military space ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and com- munications links.”</span>__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The solution against China is to build a powerful BMD system.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kleinberg 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Howard</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April 2011. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'networK': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” p. Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, ... to stop any ASAT.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GPS is critical to disaster mitigation and response</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Thomas 8 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Nikolai, “GIS and Disaster Management: A case of Jamaica”, [[http://www.cuso.org/_files/Jamaica_Risk_GIS_Ngignac_e.pdf]], 2/2/8)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sid-Ahmed 5 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Until recently, the threat Nature ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> advance are added to the equation.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Protecting satellites and GPS systems is key to the global economy – internet communications and secure encryption networks</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tucker 2008</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">masters thesis presented to SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIESAIR UNIVERSITY; Lieutenant Colonel; also received a masters in military operational art and science from Air Command and Staff College; many military honors (Dennis P., “PRESERVING UNITED STATES DOMINANCE: THE BENEFITS OF WEAPONIZING THE HIGH GROUND.” Air University Research, downloaded from https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=299bb723-5d89-4d74-9a4e-bcc36ba5a9fe) CM</span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The positioning and navigation ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> precedes military conflict.</span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic collapse leads to miscalc, instability, terrorism and global war</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Auslin, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044</span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As they deal with a collapsing ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">international systems in the past</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">DNA data from GPS is key to understand and prevent future diseases</span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">EZ 11 </span>**</span>(Earthzine, Earth observation and global awareness news network, “Tracking Typhoid: How DNA and GPS Partner to Prevent Disease”, [[http://www.earthzine.org/2011/11/11/tracking-typhoid-how-dna-and-gps-partner-to-prevent-disease/]], 11/11/11)</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Every year, Nepal witnesses ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> studies of other threatening illnesses.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Greger 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Michael, M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Senate Majority Leader </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Frist describes ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> whilst passing a graveyard.”</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px;">Contention 3: War</span>=== 

We’ll Isolate 2 Scenarios for Conflict:

Iran is proliferating now
Reuters 12 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Reuters News Service, “Iran defiant as U.N. nuclear talks fail”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/22/us-iran-nuclear-idUSTRE81K1ZF20120222]], 2/22/12) </span>

In a defiant response, <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: lime;">Supreme ... </span></span>its nuclear activities.


Iran is not going to stop proliferating and is an existential risk that will kill us all if we don’t stop them
**AP 11/9** (Associated Press, Ali Akbar Dareini, “Iran vows no retreat from nuclear path”, [[http://www.boston.com/news/world/middleeast/articles/2011/11/09/ahmadinejad_iran_wont_retreat_from_nuclear_path/]], 11/9/11)

TEHRAN, Iran—President ... he said on France's RFI radio.


High risk of U.S. Russia miscalc in the status quo – absent the plan it’s inevitable
<span class="TagChar">Lalanne 11</span> (Dominique, nuclear physicist, expert on nuclear disarmament, “De-Alerting and the Nuclear Weapons Convention”, [[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/db_article.php?print&article_id=259]], 6/24/11)

The <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: lime;">U.S. and Russia ...</span></span> prevent a nuclear launch.

<span class="TagChar">That outweighs - It’s the only existential risk </span>
<span class="TagChar">Bostrom 2</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span> [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">)</span>

A much greater ... encounter in the 21st century.

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Contention 4: Heg</span>=== 

Same as below

===Contention 5: Solvency=== 

Same as below
=1AC - Berkeley= 

===Plan Text=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should deploy the Brilliant Pebbles ballistic missile defense system beyond the Earth’s mesosphere</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space militarization is inevitable because of U.S. perception</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. China is targeting any US satellites that have advantages because they view them as weapons</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Space Review 11/14</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(“Staring into the eyes of the Dragon.”, [[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1|__http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1__]], 11/14/11)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first speaker was Kevin Pollpeter, ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> same vulnerabilities as the Americans.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Countries __perceive__ U.S. as weaponizing now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brown, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University (Trevor, Spring 2009, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The problem for the United States is...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> hard power (i.e., the ability to coerce).8</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Space is being militarized in order to counter the United States</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lynn 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">- William J. Lynn III , U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, (2011): A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment, The Washington Quarterly, 34:3, 7-16 To link to this article: [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0163660X.2011.586933|__http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0163660X.2011.586933__]] hnasser</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">During the Cold War</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, space largely ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">capable of countering U.S. space capabilities.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 2: China</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">**China is pursuing offensive ballistic missile and counter-space measures that can destroy every aspect of space power.**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">TPM 11/16</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Talking Points Memo news, “U.S. China Satellite Hacking Report Published.” http://idealab.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/11/us-satellite-hacking-report-published.php)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China’s military space ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> and com- munications links.”</span>__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The solution against China is to build a powerful BMD system.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kleinberg 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Howard</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April 2011. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'networK': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” p. Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, ... to stop any ASAT.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GPS is critical to disaster mitigation and response</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Thomas 8 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Nikolai, “GIS and Disaster Management: A case of Jamaica”, [[http://www.cuso.org/_files/Jamaica_Risk_GIS_Ngignac_e.pdf]], 2/2/8) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What is GPS? The term ... volcanic activity can be made.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sid-Ahmed 5 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Until recently, the threat Nature ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> advance are added to the equation. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Protecting satellites and GPS systems is key to the global economy – internet communications and secure encryption networks</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tucker 2008</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">masters thesis presented to SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIESAIR UNIVERSITY; Lieutenant Colonel; also received a masters in military operational art and science from Air Command and Staff College; many military honors (Dennis P., “PRESERVING UNITED STATES DOMINANCE: THE BENEFITS OF WEAPONIZING THE HIGH GROUND.” Air University Research, downloaded from https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=299bb723-5d89-4d74-9a4e-bcc36ba5a9fe) CM</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The positioning and navigation ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> precedes military conflict.</span>__



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic collapse leads to miscalc, instability, terrorism and global war</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Auslin, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As they deal with a collapsing ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> international systems in the past</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">DNA data from GPS is key to understand and prevent future diseases</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">EZ 11 </span>**</span>(Earthzine, Earth observation and global awareness news network, “Tracking Typhoid: How DNA and GPS Partner to Prevent Disease”, [[http://www.earthzine.org/2011/11/11/tracking-typhoid-how-dna-and-gps-partner-to-prevent-disease/]], 11/11/11)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Every year, Nepal witnesses ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> studies of other threatening illnesses. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Greger 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Michael, M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Senate Majority Leader </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Frist describes ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> whilst passing a graveyard.”</span>

===Contention 3: War=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We’ll Isolate 3 Scenarios for Conflict:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1. North Korean prolif now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bolton 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> – (</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">John R. Bolton, 7/14/11, a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, “North Korea edges toward next nuke test,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/jul/14/north-korea-edges-toward-next-nuke-test/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">You wouldn’t know it from the Obama ... pro forma that the troublemaking DPRK is still at it.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Absent US SMD, North Korea will initiate nuclear war – US must be the leader, other countries not taking action</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Klingner 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce, 1/12/11, Senior Research Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, Middlebury College, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704803604576077370602312808.html]], 9/20/11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Secretary of Defense Robert Gates ... respective stances on missile defense.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2. Iran proliferating now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">BBC News 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (9/2/11, “UN 'growing concern' over Iran nuclear weapons plan” [[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-14770123]], 9/20/11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The UN nuclear watchdog says it ... the major source of Iran's income.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Iran is not going to stop proliferating and is an existential risk that will kill us all if we don’t stop them</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">AP 11/9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Associated Press, Ali Akbar Dareini, “Iran vows no retreat from nuclear path”, [[http://www.boston.com/news/world/middleeast/articles/2011/11/09/ahmadinejad_iran_wont_retreat_from_nuclear_path/]], 11/9/11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">TEHRAN, Iran—President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ..." he said on France's RFI radio.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">3. Russian and US safeguards will fail – absent the plan miscalculation is inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Martin 8</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> – </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Matt Martin research analyst at Stanley foundation (nonpartisan think tank) 2008 p.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?id=498]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">, BBQ)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It should be shocking that ... accidental nuclear war.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">That outweighs - It’s the only existential risk</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">)</span>

A much greater existential ...<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> encounter in the 21st century.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Contention 4: Heg</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Heg is low now because there is nothing to bar countries from building weapons – the plan is key to revitalizing leadership</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Pfaltzgraf and Van Cleave, 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraf, Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University and President Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis and Dr. William R. Van Cleave,Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University. Independent Working Group, “Missile Defense, The Space Relationship, and the 21st Century”, 2007, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Missile defense has entered a new era. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__...__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> twenty-first-century security setting.</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hegemony is sustainable,__ensures__global peace, the transition or any alternative__guarantees__conflict—history proves</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kagan, 2/11</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Adjunct Professor of History at Georgetown University, Senior Fellow at Brookings (Robert, 2/11/12, "Why the World Needs America",<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html]]</span>) </span>

__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif;">History shows that world orders</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">,...</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> American order came into being.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">All their turns are inevitable - Zero Chances of willful US restraint – we’ll inevitably be engaged globally – the only question is effectiveness</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shalmon and Horowitz 09</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dan, Research associate and consultant at the Belfer Center for International Affairs at Harvard University. Michael Horowitz, assistant professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania. “The Future of War and American Military Strategy.”Orbis, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It is important to recognize at ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> role in the global order.24</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Contention 5: Solvency</span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brilliant pebbles is the best option for defense against attacks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bendikova, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michaela, 8/1/11, Research Assistant of the Heritage Foundation, Research Fellow at the International Institute of Political Science, M.S. in Defense and Strategic studies at Missouri State U, “A Good Step for NATO Missile Defense—from France”, 9/15/11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The French Senate Committee ... development of missile defenses.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brilliant Pebbles is already created, just need to send it up</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AFPC, 2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(American Foreign Policy Council, “Summary of Remarks, 12/18/02, [[http://www.missilethreat.com/missiledefensesystems/id.13/system_detail.asp]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brilliant Pebbles remained ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> nuclear, chemical, and biological warheads. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">21st century MAD doesn’t work – irrationality proves we need a missile defense system to deter conflict and hit missiles</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">May 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Clifford D., President of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, Chairman of the Policy Committee of the Committee on the Present Danger (CPD), masters degrees from both Columbia University's School of Public and International Affairs and its School of Journalism, “MAD in the 21st Century”, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/271238/mad-21st-century-clifford-d-may]], 7/7/11) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">On</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Tuesday, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">June 28</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, outside ..., improved, and readily deployable system. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Failure is impossible – even if missile defense doesn’t work it increases the capability of existing systems and data</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Frederick 09</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Lt Col Lorinda A. Frederick, USAF. Lt Col Lorinda A. Frederick, USAF (BA, Michigan State University; MBA, Regis University; Master of Military Operational Art and Science, Air Command and Staff College; Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies) is assigned to the Air Force Concepts, Strategy, and Wargaming Division, Headquarters US Air Force. She has served as a flight commander and instructor in intercontinental ballistic missile and missile warning squadrons. “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense” Air & Space Power Journal - Fall 2009. [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/fal09/frederick.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cooperation on missile defense ... necessary to deter threats. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space BMD prevents arms race, prolif, solves instability, and deters conflict even in the development stage – means we solve once the plan is passed.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">IFPA 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Sponsored by the American Foreign Policy Council, the Marshall Institute, Heritage, Claremont, Missouri State University, et al, “Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century’s 2009 Report,” https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf, EMM)</span>

American missile defense will ...<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> discontinued by the U.S. government after 1993.10</span>



=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Add-ons</span>= 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Asteroids</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brilliant Pebbles can destroy small NEOs</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mellor 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Felicity, Lecturer in Science Communication at Imperial College London, “Colliding Worlds : Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space”, [[http://sss.sagepub.com/content/37/4/499.full.pdf]], 8/8/07) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Wood was one of Edward ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> for asteroid mitigation.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Small asteroids risk nuclear winter and extinction even if hits the water</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Easterbrook 8 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Abbott believes that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__a space__ </span>...__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> failures around the world</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Bio-weapons=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brilliant Pebbles solves chemical and bio weapons</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">IWG 09</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">-[Independent Working Group on Foreign Policy Analysis, part of the Claremont Institute, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century,” 2009, http://www.missilethreat.com/missiledefensesystems/id.13/system_detail.asp, DKP] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brilliant Pebbles, the top anti-missile <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span> chemical, and biological warheads.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass ... EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Protecting satellites and GPS systems is key to the global economy – internet communications and secure encryption networks</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tucker 2008</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">masters thesis presented to SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIESAIR UNIVERSITY; Lieutenant Colonel; also received a masters in military operational art and science from Air Command and Staff College; many military honors (Dennis P., “PRESERVING UNITED STATES DOMINANCE: THE BENEFITS OF WEAPONIZING THE HIGH GROUND.” Air University Research, downloaded from https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=299bb723-5d89-4d74-9a4e-bcc36ba5a9fe) CMR</span>



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The positioning and navigation ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> precedes military conflict.</span>__



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic collapse leads to miscalc, instability, terrorism and global war</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Auslin, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As they deal with a collapsing ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">international systems in the past</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">DNA data from GPS is key to understand and prevent future diseases</span>**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">EZ 11 </span>**</span>(Earthzine, Earth observation and global awareness news network, “Tracking Typhoid: How DNA and GPS Partner to Prevent Disease”, [[http://www.earthzine.org/2011/11/11/tracking-typhoid-how-dna-and-gps-partner-to-prevent-disease/]], 11/11/11)
</span>