[[toc]]
Email Donnie [[mailto:ilikgrapes@gmail.com|ilikgrapes@gmail.com]] for neg cites :)
email Margaret [[mailto:mrgrtstrong685@gmail.com|mrgrtstrong685@gmail.com]] for aff cites :)
=Affirmative= 


==Round the Seventh== 

===***New Aff Hypotesting=== 

1AC Inherency 

Contention One is Inherency – 

The United States currently has military and police presence in Afghanistan, Iraq, Japan, Kuwait, South Korea and Turkey

Bauschard, topic paper author, 10 [Stefan Bauschard is the President of Planet Debate, the Director of Debate for the Lakeland School District, and an Assistant Debate Coach for Harvard Debate. He also authored the topic paper for the 2010-11 foreign military presence topic, http://www.nflonline.org/uploads/Rostrum/0510_027_037a.pdf]

In this section I …weapons at that time.

1AC Afghanistan Advantage

Contention Two is the Advantages –

First – Afghanistan

There have been many civilian casualties since combat operations began in 2001

Jaffry ’10 (Abdul-Majid, Retired Aircraft Engineer and Freelance Writer, “Afghanistan War -- A Saga of Lopsided Death and Destruction”, 5-26, http://www.uruknet.info/?p=66378//Rufus)//

//The frightening death …and children of Afghanistan.//

//The current war kills many animals in Afghanistan// 
//WCS 9 ( World Conservation Society http://www.wcs.org/where-we-work/asia/afghanistan.aspx?gclid=COCg5qWJ7qMCFdLV5wodcxHK3g//Donnie)
Mention Afghanistan and …communities and regions.


1AC Iraq Advantage

Next is Iraq –

The United States ongoing military presence in Iraq causes innumerable civilian deaths 

MHRI 5 [“First Periodical Report of Monitoring Net of Human Rights in Iraq”, http://www.brusselstribunal.org/survey111105.htm#6]
The U.S. Army applied … the National Guard

1AC Japan Advantage

Next is Japan – 

Status quo base construction efforts will damage the local environment in Okinawa

CBD 9 [Center for Biological Diversity, advocate group for biodiversity, COP10, “Dugongs vs. the Military”, Dec. 3 (http://cop10.org/japanspecific/76-marine/106-henokodugongs) 6.24.10]
The island of … years to come. 

The landfill required alone would disrupt the land and sea environment

McCormack 10 [Gavan, coordinator of The Asia-Pacific Journal – Japan Focus, and author of many previous texts on Okinawa-related matters. “Ampo’s Troubled 50th: Hatoyama’s Abortive Rebellion, Okinawa’s Mounting Resistance and the US-Japan Relationship” The Asia-Pacific Journal, May 31, 2010. http://japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3367 Accessed June 24, 2010]
The environmental survey … no such consent.

1AC Kuwait Advantage

Next is Kuwait – 

US military presence in Kuwait causes traffic accidents and road rage

Stopsky 8 [Road Rage In Kuwait City Involves US Military May 8th, 2008 by Fred Stopsky, http://theimpudentobserver.com/world-news/road-rage-in-kuwait-city-involves-us-military/] 
A fight broke out …situations to occur.

It’s systemic – here’s another example – there are American troop deaths too:

Associated Press 3 [http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/880010/posts]

KUWAIT CITY, Mar 30, 2003 (... in connection with the case.

Also, US military training accidents

LA Times 3 [“3 Hurt in U.S. Military Training Accidents”, The World | IN BRIEF / KUWAIT, January 29, 2003|From Times Wire Reports, http://articles.latimes.com/2003/jan/29/world/fg-briefs29.2]
A U.S. soldier in Kuwait was injured by a gunshot to the abdomen during urban warfare training near Kuwait's border with Iraq, military officials said. The injured staff sergeant, who was wearing a bulletproof vest, was in stable condition after being flown by helicopter to a hospital.
Kuwaiti workers rights abused by US presence

World Tribune 9/4/08 (Report: S. Asian workers at U.S. base in Kuwait deprived of rights,http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2008/ss_gulf0493_09_04.asp)ZDM

Hundreds of Asians are …wages due them."
1AC South Korea Advantage

Next is South Korea – 

US military presence in Korea sustains prostitution and violence—American presences creates a permanent underclass in Korea
Moon 09 - Wellesley College professor (Katharine H.S. “Military Prostitution and the U.S. Military in Asia” in The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus. Posted on January 17, 2009. http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/margins-to-centre/2009-January/001668.html)
Where there are soldiers, …, Ho Chi Minh City, 1992.

Military prostitution in Korea is sustained by racist depictions of Asian women—the legacy of US occupation exacerbates racism in both Asia and the United States
Moon 97 – Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, Department of Political Science and Edith Stix Wasserman Chair of Asian Studies (Katherine, “Sex among Allies” 1997, p. 33-35, MT)
In Olongapo and Angeles …massage parlors and brothels.

1AC Turkey Advantage
Last is Turkey - 
US intelligence gathering has led to increased Turkish crackdowns on the PKK 
Tyson et al 7 (Ann Tyson and Robin Wright, Pentagon correspondant, “U.S Helps Turkey Hit Rebel Kurds in Iraq” Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2007/12/17/AR2007121702150.html) MKB
The United States is …States, the official said. 

Turkey reacts to PKK attacks out of proportion, killing nearly a hundred Kurdish citizens per Turkish soldier.
Israel today 10 (“While Criticizing Israel, Turkey kills Kurds”, Israel Today, http://www.walrusmagazine.com/articles/2008.09-international-affairs-a-land-apart-turkey-politics-christopher-frey/1/) MKB
On the same day …from the podium. 


Turkey can only attack once it has US intel, prevents them from tracking the PKK 
Tyson et al 7 (Ann Tyson and Robin Wright, Pentagon correspondent, “U.S Helps Turkey Hit Rebel Kurds in Iraq” Washington Post. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2007/12/17/AR2007121702150.html) MKB
But persistent attacks …from Turkey this year 

1AC Text

The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: Afghanistan, Iraq, Japan, Kuwait, South Korea, Turkey.

[[2011 TOC Hoflo Whole Rez Aff 2AC Stuff]]

==Round Five== 

===1AC=== 

==New Aff--China== 

1AC- plan
Contention one is the politics of Okinawa
But continued Chinese growth is unsustainable
A. overinvestment means hard landing by 2013
Roubini 4/14/11 (Nouriel Roubini is Chairman of Roubini Global Economics (www.roubini.com), professor of Economics at the Stern School of Business at NYU and co-author of Crisis Economics, whose paperback edition is forthcoming this month. “China’s Bad Growth Bet” http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/roubini37/English //Donnie)//
//I recently took two trips to China just as the government launched its 12th Five-Year Plan to rebalance the country’s long-term growth model. My visits deepened my view that there is a potentially destabilizing contradiction between China’s short- and medium-term economic performance. China’s economy is overheating now, but, over time, its current overinvestment will prove deflationary both domestically and globally. Once increasing fixed investment becomes impossible – most likely after 2013 – China is poised for a sharp slowdown. Instead of focusing on securing a soft landing today, Chinese policymakers should be worrying about the brick wall that economic growth may hit in the second half of the quinquennium. Despite the rhetoric of the new Five-Year Plan – which, like the previous one, aims to increase the share of consumption in GDP – the path of least resistance is the status quo. The new plan’s details reveal continued reliance on investment, including public housing, to support growth, rather than faster currency appreciation, substantial fiscal transfers to households, taxation and/or privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), liberalization of the household registration (hukou) system, or an easing of financial repression. China has grown for the last few decades on the back of export-led industrialization and a weak currency, which have resulted in high corporate and household savings rates and reliance on net exports and fixed investment (infrastructure, real estate, and industrial capacity for import-competing and export sectors). When net exports collapsed in 2008-2009 from 11% of GDP to 5%, China’s leader reacted by further increasing the fixed-investment share of GDP from 42% to 47%. Thus, China did not suffer a severe recession – as occurred in Japan, Germany, and elsewhere in emerging Asia in 2009 – only because fixed investment exploded. And the fixed-investment share of GDP has increased further in 2010-2011, to almost 50%. The problem, of course, is that no country can be productive enough to reinvest 50% of GDP in new capital stock without eventually facing immense overcapacity and a staggering non-performing loan problem. China is rife with overinvestment in physical capital, infrastructure, and property. To a visitor, this is evident in sleek but empty airports and bullet trains (which will reduce the need for the 45 planned airports), highways to nowhere, thousands of colossal new central and provincial government buildings, ghost towns, and brand-new aluminum smelters kept closed to prevent global prices from plunging. Commercial and high-end residential investment has been excessive, automobile capacity has outstripped even the recent surge in sales, and overcapacity in steel, cement, and other manufacturing sectors is increasing further. In the short run, the investment boom will fuel inflation, owing to the highly resource-intensive character of growth. But overcapacity will lead inevitably to serious deflationary pressures, starting with the manufacturing and real-estate sectors. Eventually, most likely after 2013, China will suffer a hard landing. All historical episodes of excessive investment – including East Asia in the 1990’s – have ended with a financial crisis and/or a long period of slow growth. To avoid this fate, China needs to save less, reduce fixed investment, cut net exports as a share of GDP, and boost the share of consumption. The trouble is that the reasons the Chinese save so much and consume so little are structural. It will take two decades of reforms to change the incentive to overinvest. Traditional explanations for the high savings rate (lack of a social safety net, limited public services, aging of the population, underdevelopment of consumer finance, etc.) are only part of the puzzle. Chinese consumers do not have a greater propensity to save than Chinese in Hong Kong, Singapore, and Taiwan; they all save about 30% of disposable income. The big difference is that the share of China’s GDP going to the household sector is below 50%, leaving little for consumption. Several Chinese policies have led to a massive transfer of income from politically weak households to politically powerful companies. A weak currency reduces household purchasing power by making imports expensive, thereby protecting import-competing SOEs and boosting exporters’ profits. Low interest rates on deposits and low lending rates for firms and developers mean that the household sector’s massive savings receive negative rates of return, while the real cost of borrowing for SOEs is also negative. This creates a powerful incentive to overinvest and implies enormous redistribution from households to SOEs, most of which would be losing money if they had to borrow at market-equilibrium interest rates. Moreover, labor repression has caused wages to grow much more slowly than productivity.//

//B. income inequality and poor innovation//
//Wyne 7 (Ali, is a researcher at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. “Is China's Economic Growth Sustainable?” http://web.mit.edu/murj/www/v15/v15-Features/v15-f5.pdf// DOnnie
Because China is of such central importance, I find the character of contemporary discourse on China’s rise to be so worrisome. While many analysts view China as the world’s next economic superpower, surprisingly few consider (with much concern, anyway) two central obstacles to its growth: increasing income inequality and a weak innovative capacity.2,(i) I argue herein that, largely owing to these phenomena, China is unlikely to be able to sustain its current pace of growth. Given this premise, it is fitting that I structure the remainder of my essay around a discussion (or criticism thereof) of Simon Kuznets’ influential 1955 postulation. At the risk of oversimplifying his conclusion, Kuznets argued that developing economies would experience rising income inequality as they industrialized, but declining income inequality as they oriented toward higher-productivity sectors.3 He seemed to view inequality merely in transitional terms: That is to say, he (1) appears to have regarded it as a necessary prerequisite to stable growth, not as a problem unto itself. He (2) further appears to have presumed that developing economies would have in place a functional, robust innovative apparatus at the time of their transition to industrialization. In China, however, these twin assumptions are highly tendentious. If one accepts the supposition, as seems reasonable, that developed economies have achieved sustainable growth on the shoulders of their middle classes, one must conclude that China’s prospects are presently unfavorable. As of 2005, less than 5% of its population belonged to the middle class (that is, belonged to a household whose income is at least $10,000 per year).4 While countries can achieve, and often have attained, impressive rates of economic growth without a thriving middle class, none have been able to sustain this fractured development.(ii) Indeed, as National Geographic notes in a poignant survey of Manchuria, the beacon of Maoist China that now faces decline, China is home to a complex network of divides: “China’s growing wealth gap is usually seen as a divide between urban and rural, east and west, but is also cleaves north and south.” Unfortunately, government officials have heretofore espoused a policy of pragmatism over principle: That is to say, income inequality, no matter its degree or scope, must be accepted as a condition of economic growth. The deficiencies of this prescription are increasingly manifest. Indeed, far from possessing an auto-catalytic character, as some analysts would suggest, China’s economic growth operates under a myriad of constraints. In their second annual “Failed States Index,” which tracks 12 indicators to assess countries’ vulnerability to internal upheaval, the Fund for Peace and the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace ranked China 57th out of 146 countries (a lower rank signifying greater risk). Noting growing peasant unrest over land expropriation and continuing unemployment, the survey observed that “Party officials must find new ways to mollify the masses while keeping the country’s economic engine in high gear.” 7 The predictable rejoinder to this argument is that unrest and dislocation are inevitable concomitants of economic growth. In a compelling piece that appeared in The Financial Times, Victor Mallet analogized China’s present phase of industrialization to Great Britain’s in the 19th century.8 This comparison comes under duress, however, when one notes that China is home to one-sixth of humanity. Indeed, with 160 million Chinese living under $1 per day, and 486 million living under $2 per day, the government’s failure to address income inequality could sow internal chaos on a mammoth scale. It is important, then, not to disassociate economic growth from its political consequences (and, if I had the space in which to discuss them, its social and environmental ones). The latter can critically constrain, or even reverse, the former.(iii) Even if one believes that establishing the aforementioned dichotomy – economic and political – is not problematic, one would yet find it difficult to argue that China’s economic prospects are assured. For the past three decades, China has prospered largely on the back of one sector: manufacturing. By virtue of its size, it was able to accrue nearly continual economies of significant scale by establishing industrial parks and conditioning its workers to achieve maximum efficiency. In 2005, manufacturing accounted for over half of China’s economic growth and manufactured goods accounted for 91% of its exports.9 Now, however, for the first time in its history, foreign direct investment (FDI) in its manufacturing sector has declined; that is to say, the sector that has all but anchored China’s expansion is no longer a guarantor of its long-term success.10 In light of this outcome, Beijing is suddenly stressing the importance of innovation. In February 2006, for example, the Chinese government announced a “National Medium- and Long-Term Programme for Scientific and Technological Development (2006-20).”11 Its ability to innovate, in turn, depends on (1) the global competitive posture of its firms and (2) the quality of its labor force. Especially since China’s accession to the World Trade Organization in 2001, sustained inflows of FDI have largely obviated the need for its companies to be competitive. Now, however, multinational corporations are reconsidering the wisdom of investing in China as the weaknesses of its domestic industry are becoming more apparent. In particular, the difficulties that its manufacturing companies have experienced in completing and sustaining overseas acquisitions attest to their inexperience and lack of exposure to global markets. TCL Corporation and Lenovo Group, two of China’s well-known manufacturing firms, have suffered in large part because they have relied “on the brands’ [RCA/Thomson’s and International Business Machines’, respectively] existing global distribution networks,” rather than developing their own.12 Cognizant of these and other such developments, government officials are beginning to stifle FDI, in the hopes that homegrown companies will be able to hone their savvy and knowledge in a more protected atmosphere. If, contrary to their assurances, this move is not temporary, but part of a broader strategy, multinationals may lose their patience and turn elsewhere. A withdrawal of FDI would likely have serious consequences for China’s economy, considering that the role of foreign-funded companies (FFCs) therein has steadily grown. In 2001, FFCs accounted for approximately 50% of Chinese exports; by 2005, that figure had risen to about 60%.13

C. Yaun revaluation is inevitable
Japan Times 8/11 [Mamoru Ishida, 8/11/10, “Japan’s experience highlights perils for China ", http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20100812a2.html //STRONG]//
//Until the global financial crisis hit, China had achieved export-led high economic growth by keeping its currency at an undervalued level. It is now abundantly clear that the growth model is not sustainable. The People's Bank of China reinstated the "managed floating exchange rate regime with reference to a basket of currencies" that it had started in 2005 and suspended in 2008, explaining that "a floating exchange rate draws economic resources to sectors driven by domestic demand." China needs to move to a growth model in which external and domestic demands will be better balanced. The basket of currencies is a device to let the yuan move with the currencies of China's major trading partners, not with the dollar. Can China achieve more balanced economic growth? Let us have a look at Japanese experiences to see the perils China may face. Japan achieved an export-led high economic growth by keeping the yen at an undervalued level, which resulted in an economic structure of excessive production capacity and insufficient domestic demand. Its trade surplus exceeded a level the international community would tolerate. The yen then excessively appreciated, which drove Japan into an unintended restructuring with two major consequences. First, Japan's competitiveness as an industrial location deteriorated. As a result, so much production and employment had to move abroad that Japan has lost much of its economic vitality. Second, because a very expansionary monetary policy failed to stimulate domestic demand, Japan has had to make use of fiscal expenditures year after year for so long that it is now no longer able to achieve even modest economic growth without government expenditures. Public investment in infrastructures contributed to enhancing productivity of the Japanese economy until such investment opportunities were exhausted. Then Japan built airports and ports that see little use. Now the outstanding government debt exceeds 170 percent of GDP. What is disturbing about China is that People's Bank of China seems determined not to let the yuan significantly appreciate. It declared that "the basis for large-scale appreciation of the yuan exchange rate does not exist" and has been cautiously managing the yuan exchange rate. If the People's Bank of China manages the yuan too cautiously in order to secure immediate economic growth, the yuan exchange rate will not be flexible enough to play its expected role in transforming China's growth model. In that event, China could face three negative consequences.//


//Two impacts-//
//Warming//
//Unrestrained Chinese growth causes global resource shortages and warming—China is the only internal link//
//Leonard 2/9 [Andrew Leonard-- senior technology writer, wrote "Bots: The Origin of New Species"; Salon, “Armageddon time again, already? From Egypt to China: If global warming leads to revolution, the rest of the 21st century will be a rough ride” WED, 09 FEB 2011 02:30:00 ET; http://mobile.salon.com/tech/htww/2011/02/09/armageddon_again/index.htm// STRONG]
Global warming, bad weather, rising food prices, massive demonstrations in the Mideast -- Paul Krugman's Monday New York Times column provocatively connects the dots. 2010 was a year packed with an unusual profusion of floods, droughts, mega-blizzards and heat waves -- a pattern of extreme events considered by many climate scientists to be the expected result of higher temperatures. The weather played havoc with grain harvests in Russia, Australia, China and many other regions, sharply depressing production. Global food prices consequently hit record highs in January -- fueling popular discontent in Egypt, Yemen and Tunisia. ...[T]he evidence does, in fact, suggest that what we're getting now is a first taste of the disruption, economic and political, that we'll face in a warming world. And given our failure to act on greenhouse gases, there will be much more, and much worse, to come. Apocalypse, again? It seems like just yesterday that a broad-based commodity price spike set off food riots across the world and spawned innumerable disaster scenarios. The global economic recession punctured that bubble and inflation more or less vanished in the developed world. But suddenly, here we are again, only with destabilizing climate change and outright revolution added directly to the mix. The grand scale of the potential disruption is intimidating, and puts the daily political squabbles that obsess U.S. politicians into ludicrous context. While prospective Republican presidential candidate Tim Pawlenty discusses the crucially important issue of how to go about defunding DADT implementation, the entire world seems to be spinning out of control. It's not quite fair to draw a direct causal `line, however, between global warming and Egyptian revolution, or climate change and spiking food prices. The growth in global demand for food probably deserves more attention than the single sentence Krugman devotes to it in his column. All by itself, China is ramping up consumption of foodstuffs on a scale big enough to move world prices without any help from Mother Nature. It's also hard to see food price inflation spawning revolution in Europe or the U.S. -- in societies that have reasonably free elections, a dysfunctional economy tends to result in the bums in power getting thrown out without the necessity for pitched battles in capital cities. At least for now. But you could also argue that the situation is even worse than what Krugman describes, if you take into account the fact that the underlying causes of growing demand for food are also a driver of higher temperatures. The big emerging economies of the world are getting rich, quick, upgrading their diets and pumping ever more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. China, again, is exhibit A. On Tuesday, China's government announced its third interest rate hike since October -- as clear proof as anyone might need of social concern about the possibility of runaway inflation -- a phenomenon most obvious in rapidly rising prices for basic food items. In a bad case of synchronicity, the U.N. also issued an alert on Tuesday "warning that a severe drought was threatening the wheat crop in China, the world's largest wheat producer, and resulting in shortages of drinking water for people and livestock." "China's grain situation is critical to the rest of the world -- if they are forced to go out on the market to procure adequate supplies for their population, it could send huge shock waves through the world's grain markets," said Robert S. Zeigler, the director general of the International Rice Research Institute in Los Banos, Philippines. The state-run news media in China warned Monday that the country's major agricultural regions were facing their worst drought in 60 years. On Tuesday the state news agency Xinhua said that Shandong Province, a cornerstone of Chinese grain production, was bracing for its worst drought in 200 years unless substantial precipitation came by the end of this month. In 2010 China imported 1.3 million metric tons of corn, the most since the disastrous harvest year of 1995-1996. But one industry group, the U.S. Grain Council, is already predicting that 2011 imports could jump as high as an astounding 9 million tons. China also imported a record 54.8 billion tons of soybeans in 2010. In my visit to China last fall, the sharp rise in the cost of food came up in nearly every conversation. At the same time it was impossible to miss, in cities big and small, a display of conspicuous consumption at restaurants on a scale likely unmatched anywhere else in the world. It's the globe in hyper-accelerated microcosm: Demand is exploding, at the same time that disastrous weather conditions are crushing supply. And while we can't say definitively that the current Chinese drought is a direct consequence of rising temperatures, the correlation between China's changing diet, rapid economic growth, and surging emissions of greenhouse gases is hard to miss. The faster China grows and the more high-protein pork and beef and chicken the Chinese eat, the worse it's going to get. Never mind the rest of the world -- how the drama plays out in China might be all we need to watch to see whether the globe as a whole can successfully confront the challenge of balancing economic growth with access to affordable food and water and energy while ensuring that climate disruptions don't completely upset the apple cart. Whether or not the Republicans in the U.S. Congress succeed in hobbling the EPA's rudimentary stabs at limiting greenhouse gas emissions in the United States suddenly seems like an immaterial sideshow. If the past year is prologue, push is coming to shove in Asia, this year.

Global shortages causes extinction- poverty, terror, and prolif
Lugar 2k (Richard, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “calls for a new green revolution to combat global warming and reduce world instability,” pg online @ http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html Donnie) 
In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in the Middle East, burgeoning nuclear threats and other crises, it is easy to lose sight of the long-range challenges. But we do so at our peril. One of the most daunting of them is meeting the world’s need for food and energy in this century. At stake is not only preventing starvation and saving the environment, but also world peace and security. History tells us that states may go to war over access to resources, and that poverty and famine have often bred fanaticism and terrorism. Working to feed the world will minimize factors that contribute to global instability and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. With the world population expected to grow from 6 billion people today to 9 billion by mid-century, the demand for affordable food will increase well beyond current international production levels. People in rapidly developing nations will have the means greatly to improve their standard of living and caloric intake. Inevitably, that means eating more meat. This will raise demand for feed grain at the same time that the growing world population will need vastly more basic food to eat. Complicating a solution to this problem is a dynamic that must be better understood in the West: developing countries often use limited arable land to expand cities to house their growing populations. As good land disappears, people destroy timber resources and even rainforests as they try to create more arable land to feed themselves. The long-term environmental consequences could be disastrous for the entire globe. To meet the expected demand for food over the next 50 years, we in the United States will have to grow roughly three times more food on the land we have. That’s a tall order. My farm in Marion County, Indiana, for example, yields on average 8.3 to 8.6 tonnes of corn per hectare – typical for a farm in central Indiana. To triple our production by 2050, we will have to produce an annual average of 25 tonnes per hectare. 
Warming is real, anthropogenic, and causes extinction- outweighs other impacts
Deibel 7 (Terry L., Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. Scientists worldwide have been observing the gathering of this threat for three decades now, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.” Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports shows: an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serious the effects will be. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and threatened inundation of low-lying countries like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to heat the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then everything will collapse.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possibly end life on this planet. Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run it puts dangers form terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.

Chinese economic collapse has no impact- the PCC and Asia will remain stable 
Blackwill 2009 [Robert, former associate dean of the Kennedy School of Government and Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategic Planning RAND, “The Geopolitical Consequences of the World Economic Recession—A Caution”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2009/RAND_OP275.pdf]
Next, China. Again, five years from today. Did the recession undermine the grip of the Chinese Communist Party on the People’s Republic of China (PRC)? No. Again, as Lee Kuan Yew stressed in the same recent speech, “China has proven itself to be pragmatic, resilient and adaptive. The Chinese have survived severe crises—the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution—few societies have been so stricken. These are reasons not to be pessimistic.” Did the crisis make Washington more willing to succumb to the rise of Chinese power because of PRC holdings of U.S. Treasury Bonds? No. Did it alter China’s basic external direction and especially its efforts, stemming from its own strategic analysis, to undermine the U.S. alliance system in Asia? No. Did it cause the essence of Asian security to transform? No.

China de-dev has no impact on world economy—empirically proven with Japan in the 1990s
Johnston 10 [Exports to China – not so important for world economy? Sunday, October 31, 2010 by Mark Johnston http://tutor2u.net/blog/index.php/economics/comments/exports-to-china-not-so-important-for-world-economy/ //STRONG]//
//Thus exports to China are only 3.4% of GDP in Australia, 2.2% in Japan, 2% in South Africa and 1.2% in Brazil (see below). Export earnings can, of course, have a ripple effect throughout an economy but the multiplier effect is rarely higher than 1.5 or 2 – this means that they hardly ever double the contribution to GDP. Recently, the Bank Credit Analyst, an independent research firm, asked what would happen if China suffered a “hard landing”. Its answer to this “apocalyptic” question was quite “benign”. As it pointed out, Japan at the start of the 1990s accounted for a bigger share of GDP than China does today. Its growth slowed from about 5% to 1% in the first half of the 1990s without any discernible effect on global trends.//

//Economic decline does not cause violence or war//
//Miller 2K [Morris, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, “Poverty as a cause of wars?” Morris Miller is an economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, attended McGill and Harvard Universities and the London School of Economics, majoring in economic policy. Has taught at McGill University, the University of Maryland, Carleton University and the World Bank's Economic Development Institute. http://www.management.uottawa.ca/miller/poverty.htm]//
//The question may be reformulated. Do wars spring from a popular reaction to a sudden economic crisis that exacerbates poverty and growing disparities in wealth and incomes? Perhaps one could argue, as some scholars do, that it is some dramatic event or sequence of such events leading to the exacerbation of poverty that, in turn, leads to this deplorable denouement. This exogenous factor might act as a catalyst for a violent reaction on the part of the people or on the part of the political leadership who would then possibly be tempted to seek a diversion by finding or, if need be, fabricating an enemy and setting in train the process leading to war. According to a study undertaken by Minxin Pei and Ariel Adesnik of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, there would not appear to be any merit in this hypothesis. After studying ninety-three episodes of economic crisis in twenty-two countries in Latin America and Asia in the years since the Second World War they concluded that:19 Much of the conventional wisdom about the political impact of economic crises may be wrong ... The severity of economic crisis - as measured in terms of inflation and negative growth - bore no relationship to the collapse of regimes ... (or, in democratic states, rarely) to an outbreak of violence ... In the cases of dictatorships and semidemocracies, the ruling elites responded to crises by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).//

//Warming makes economic collapse inevitable//
//Woodbridge 6 [Roy—president of Woodbridge & Associates, an environmental policy consulting firm in Vancouver, 18 May 2006, "Jobs, Natural Capital and Economic Growth - What’s Next?”, www.roywoodbridge.com/images/pdf/calgary.pdf]//
//There is a sort of scientific consensus that if the global average temperature increases by over 2 degrees, it will precipitate our worst nightmares about rapid global warming. The problem with the idea of thresholds is that no one really knows when we might reach them, or, indeed, if we have already exceeded them. What is clear is that at a certain point, global feedback mechanisms that now help to temper global warming will all begin to turn the other way setting off a chain reaction of parallel events. Warmer then begets warmer and we will have to deal with runaway climate change. As these feedback mechanisms kick in, unstable weather will create havoc for agricultural producers causing disruptions in food supply. People will be forced to migrate to escape from intolerable heat. As the polar ice caps melt, coastal cities and communities will be forced to abandon their locations or resort to huge public works programs to hold back the rising oceans. Insects and disease will migrate. Markets will surely collapse. The global economy will implode. Chaos will ensue.//

//Warming turns war//
//Lee 9 [James R. Lee is a Professor in the School of International Service, American University, Washington, DC and Associate Director of American University's Center for Teaching Excellence. He is author of several books on international relations. Global Warming Is Just the Tip of the Iceberg 1/4/2009 http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/02/AR2009010202280.html 7/27/2010]//
//The Cold War shaped world politics for half a century. But global warming may shape the patterns of global conflict for much longer than that -- and help spark clashes that will be, in every sense of the word, hot wars. We're used to thinking of climate change as an environmental problem, not a military one, but it's long past time to alter that mindset. Climate change may mean changes in Western lifestyles, but in some parts of the world, it will mean far more. Living in Washington, I may respond to global warming by buying a Prius, planting a tree or lowering my thermostat. But elsewhere, people will respond to climate change by building bomb shelters and buying guns. "There is every reason to believe that as the 21st century unfolds, the security story will be bound together with climate change," warns John Ashton, a veteran diplomat who is now the United Kingdom's first special envoy on climate change. "The last time the world faced a challenge this complex was during the Cold War. Yet the stakes this time are even higher because the enemy now is ourselves, the choices we make." Defense experts have also started to see the link between climate change and conflict. A 2007 CNA Corp. report, supervised by a dozen retired admirals and generals, warned that climate change could lead to political unrest in numerous badly hit countries, then perhaps to outright bloodshed and battle.//

//Even if there’s a low risk of solvency or the existence of warming—you vote aff on the magnitude of irreversibility.//
//Sunstein 2007 [Cass R.—Professor in the Department of Political Science and at the Law School of the University of Chicago “Worst-Case Scenarios”, Harvard University Press, p. 176-177]//
//Most worst-case scenarios appear to have an element of irreversibility. Once a species is lost, it is lost forever. The special concern for endangered species stems from the permanence of their loss (outside of Jurassic Park). One of the most serious fears associated with genetically modified organisms is that they might lead to irreversible ecological harm. Because some greenhouse gases stay in the atmosphere for centuries, the problem of climate change may be irreversible, at least for all practical purposes. Transgenic crops can impose irreversible losses too, because they can make pests more resistant to pesticides. If we invest significant wealth in one source of energy and neglect others, we may be effectively stuck forever, or at least for a long time. One objection to capital punishment is that errors cannot be reversed. In ordinary life, our judgments about worst-case scenarios have everything to do with irreversibility. Of course an action may be hard but not impossible to undo, and so there may be a continuum of cases, with different degrees of difficulty in reversing. A marriage can be reversed, but divorce is rarely easy; having a child is very close to irreversible; moving from New York to Paris is reversible, but moving back may be difficult. People often take steps to avoid courses of action that are burdensome rather than literally impossible to reverse. In this light, we might identify an Irreversible Harm Precautionary Principle, applicable to a subset of risks.' As a rough first approximation, the principle says this: Special steps should be taken to avoid irreversible harms, through precautions that go well beyond those that would be taken if irreversibility were not a problem. The general attitude here is "act, then learn," as opposed to the tempting alternative of "wait and learn." In the case of climate change, some people believe that research should be our first line of defense. In their view, we should refuse to commit substantial resources to the problem until evidence of serious harm is unmistakably clear.' But even assuming that the evidence is not so clear, research without action allows greenhouse gas emissions to continue, which might produce risks that are irreversible, or at best difficult and expensive to reverse. For this reason, the best course of action might well be to take precautions now as a way of preserving flexibility for future generations. In the environmental context in general, this principle suggests that regulators should proceed with far more aggressive measures than would otherwise seem justified.//

//Even if warming has a long timeframe solving now is the only way to avoid irreversible impacts//
//Mongabay 2009 (“Many global warming impacts may be irreversible in next 1000 years,” Byline Rhett Butler, January 27th http://www.climateark.org/shared/reader/welcome.aspx?linkid=116603, Accessed 07-22-2010)//
//"It is sometimes imagined that slow processes such as climate changes pose small risks, on the basis of the assumption that a choice can always be made to quickly reduce emissions and thereby reverse any harm within a few years or decades," the write. "We have shown that this assumption is incorrect for carbon dioxide emissions, because of the longevity of the atmospheric CO2 perturbation and ocean warming. Irreversible climate changes due to carbon dioxide emissions have already taken place, and future carbon dioxide emissions would imply further irreversible effects on the planet, with attendant long legacies for choices made by contemporary society." "In this paper we have quantified how societal decisions regarding carbon dioxide concentrations that have already occurred or could occur in the coming century imply irreversible dangers relating to climate change for some illustrative populations and regions. These and other dangers pose substantial challenges to humanity and nature, with a magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached."//

//Warming comparatively worse than war//
//DIXON 09 [WILLIAM C. The Washington Times March 2, 2009 Monday “Global warming ignored” BYLINE: THE WASHINGTON TIMES lexis]//
//Once again the anti-environment right wing is missing the point on global warming, or should I say potential global warming, to concede a point. In the article "In global warming we trust" (Commentary, Monday), Anthony Sadar and Susan Cammarata restate the usual conundrum that we cannot predict the weather a month in advance, let alone decades ahead. True, but most scientists accept global warming as fact. The authors state that water has a greater effect on weather than carbon dioxide. That is true, but we are producing no new water (hydrogen and oxygen) while we pour millions of tons of new carbon dioxide (by using oxygen in burning coal) into the atmosphere. Eventually this carbon dioxide may overwhelm water's effect. The potential effect of this seems logical. Do the authors dispute simple logic? By suggesting that other plagues, war, famine, etc., are presently more important, they fail to see the real problem of global warming. Of all the ills that the authors list, global warming will require the most time to reverse. It took us since the Industrial Revolution to get into this position. By the time we "prove" global warming to these zealots, it may be too late. Regardless, the cure will be lengthy and very costly. We should assume that global warming is very likely true - the scientific evidence seems to support that - and prudently and judiciously address the problem, not wait until we have "proof," meaning too late to do anything.//

//Second, conflict//
//China growth causes nuclear war secessionism and difference, also guts heg//
//Zakaria 9 (Fareed Zakaria is editor of Newsweek International, overseeing all Newsweek's editions abroad. He writes a regular column for Newsweek, which also appears in Newsweek International and often The Washington Post. 12-1 http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/postglobal/fareed_zakaria/2008/12/wanted_a_new_grand_strategy_1.html//Donnie)
Some have seized on the fact that emerging markets are slumping to argue that the era of Western dominance isn't over yet. But the rise of the non-Western world -- which began with Japan in the 1950s, then continued with the Asian tigers in the 1960s, China in the 1980s and India and Brazil in the 1990s -- is a broad and deep trend that is likely to endure.
For some countries, the current economic crisis could actually accelerate the process. For the past two decades, for example, China has grown at approximately 9 percent a year and the United States at 3 percent. For the next few years, American growth will likely be 1 percent and China's, by the most conservative estimates, 5 percent. So, China was growing three times as fast as the United States, but will now grow five times as fast, which only brings closer the date when the Chinese economy will equal in size that of the United States. Then contrast China's enormous surplus reserves to America's massive debt burden: the picture does not suggest a return to American unipolarity. The "rise of the rest," as I have termed it, is an economic phenomenon, but it has political, military and cultural consequences. In one month this past summer, India was willing to frontally defy the United States at the Doha trade talks, Russia attacked and occupied parts of Georgia, and China hosted the most spectacular and expensive Olympic Games in history (costing more than $40 billion). Ten years ago, not one of the three would have been powerful or confident enough to act as it did.
Even if their growth rates decline, these countries will not return quietly to the back of the bus. The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying aspects of the new international order--competition for resources like oil, food, commodities and water; climate change; continued terrorist threats; and demographic shifts. But the most significant point it makes is that these changes are taking place at every level and at great speed in the global system. Nations with differing political and economic systems are flourishing. Subnational groups, with varied and contradictory agendas, are on the rise. Technology is increasing the pace of change. Such ferment is usually a recipe for instability. Sudden shifts can trigger sudden actions -- terrorist attacks, secessionist outbreaks, nuclear brinksmanship.

Heg solves nuclear war 
Kagan 7 (Robert Kagan is author, most recently, of Dangerous Nation: America’s Place in the World from Its Earliest Days to the Dawn of the Twentieth Century (Knopf, 2006). He is senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund “End of Dreams Return to History” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136 //Donnie)//
//The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying — its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United States to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic.//


//China growth causes war with the US//
//Mearshimer 5 (John, prof of IR and pol sci @ U of Chicago “Clash of the Titans,” Foreign Policy, http://www.ou.edu/uschina/texts/BrzezinskiMearsheimer2005ClashTitans.pdf//Donnie
China cannot rise peacefully, and if it continues its dramatic economic growth over the next few decades, the United States and China are likely to engage in an intense security competition with considerable potential for war. Most of China’s neighbors, including India, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Russia, and Vietnam, will likely join with the United States to contain China’s power

Extinction
(STRAIT TIMES, June 25, 2K, Pg. l/n)
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -horror of horrors -raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China, 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization.


Empirics prove you are wrong—China is only being peaceful now so they can kick out ass in the war later, magnifies our heg arguments 
Layne 8 (Christopher Layne is a professor at Texas A&M University’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service. He is author of The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present (Cornell University Press, 2006), and (with Bradley A. Thayer) American Empire: A Debate (Routledge, 2007). “China’s Challenge to US Hegemony” http://acme.highpoint.edu/~msetzler/IR/IRreadingsbank/chinauscontain.ch08.6.pdf //Donnie)//
//Proponents of engagement have also argued that the United States can help foster political liberalization in China by integrating the country into the international economy and embedding it in the complex web of international institutional arrangements. A China so engaged, it is said, will have strong interests in cooperation and will not be inclined to pursue security competition with America or with its Asian neighbors. Engagement is a problematic strategy, however, because it rests on a shaky foundation. The conventional wisdom notwithstanding, there is little support in the historical record for the idea that economic interdependence leads to peace. After all, Europe never was more interdependent (not only economically but also, among the ruling elites, intellectually and culturally) than before World War I. It was famously predicted, on the eve of World War I, that the economic ties among Europe’s great powers had ushered in an era in which war among them was unthinkable. Yet, as we know, the prospect of forgoing the economic gains of trade did not stop Europe’s great powers from fighting a prolonged and devastating war. Beijing’s actual foreign policy furnishes a concrete reason to be skeptical of the argument that interdependence leads to peace. China’s behavior in the 1996 crisis with Taiwan (during which it conducted missile tests in waters surrounding the island in the run-up to Taiwan’s presidential election) suggested it was not constrained by fears that its muscular foreign policy would adversely affect its overseas trade. Of course, during the past decade, China has been mindful of its stake in international trade and investment. But this does not vindicate the us strategy of engagement. China’s current policy reflects the fact that, for now, Beijing recognizes its strategic interest in preserving peace in East Asia. Stability in the region, and in Sino-American relations, allows China to become richer and to catch up to the United States in relative power. For a state in China’s position vis-à-vis the United States, this is the optimal realpolitik strategy: buying time for its economy to grow so that the nation can openly balance against the United States militarily and establish its own regional hegemony in East Asia. Beijing is pursuing a peaceful policy today in order to strengthen itself to confront the United States tomorrow.//

//Specifically, they use this to modernize their military//
//Perkins 6 (Dwight Perkins “military modernization in an Era of Uncertainty” http://www.nbr.org/publications/strategic_asia/pdf/Preview/SA05/SA05_ChinaBudget_preview.pdf// Donnie) 
If China does manage to sustain high economic growth rates, not only will such growth strengthen political stability, but Beijing would also find it easier to expand China’s military expenditures. Over the long term, China will likely strive to become a world military power commensurate with the country’s size, population, and role in world history. Slow growth will not necessarily stop this military expansion (Beijing can to some degree raise the share of GDP allocated to the military), but would certainly make this expansion much more difficult. Attempts to forecast China’s future economic growth rate, therefore, are not simply exercises designed to provide information to investors on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges. Having a reasonably reliable estimate of China’s future economic growth prospects is also essential for any informed discussion of China’s future domestic stability and the likelihood of continued international stability in Asia more broadly. 

China is developing nano weapons to be used in a future war, this will outweigh nuclear war 
Navrozov 07 [Lev, the winner of the Albert Einstein Prize for outstanding intellectual achievements, and more than twenty of his articles are in the United States Congressional Record. He is also president of the nonprofit Center for the Survival of Western Democracies, “Nanotech and Sun Tzu: China's secret weapons?”, Sept 3, http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2007/lev8_31.asp] 
In 1945, the ultimate super weapon was the atom bomb. I am interested in the ultimate super-weapon of today, since if there is any chance that the development of it will succeed, this is the weapon the dictatorship of China has been developing to annihilate the free West at a blow (or make it surrender unconditionally). The goal of eliminating the source of subversion is too important for the dictatorship of China to be deterred by financial losses or a possibility of a failure. Recall that 100,000 riots or protests occur every year in China, and the dictatorship may be overthrown (recall Tiananmen with its replica of the Statue of Liberty) unless it annihilates or subjugates the free West. 
In his e-mail of Aug. 20, my reader Richard Mross says: 
Your articles about China and recent history are interesting, and very informative and chilling. I am convinced that China is vigorously pursuing post-nuclear superweapons and I’m sure they are successfully hiding this from the West. But why then are they also spending so much money on conventional weapons like aircraft carriers, missiles, submarines? 
First of all, my reader may notice that while developing atom bombs, which made Japan surrender unconditionally, the United States continued to produce conventional weapons. 
This is human nature: the fear of having all eggs in one basket. But there is probably something else in the case of China. My reader has no doubt seen the Pentagon’s annual reports on the growth of China’s military power. The reports are reassuring. China, a backward country, is trying to modernize itself and thus become more like the most technologically advanced country the Pentagon can imagine: the USA. But imagine that the Pentagon discovers that China spends nothing on visible weapons. Surely even the Pentagon may become suspicious. 
Speaking of the United States, let me take molecular nano super weapons as an example of a scientific vision. Eric Drexler wrote his volume on nanotechnology in 1986, and in 2007 I received on the Internet its “20th anniversary edition updated and expanded” (630 pages). If successfully developed, this scientific vision could be the ultimate super weapon of today. The molecular nano weapon—a growing cloud advancing to its target and consisting of molecules acting as artificial microbes or viruses, capable of multiplying and destroying everything in their path, including their targets. On p. 355 of the 2007 edition of his study, Drexler states 
A [nuclear] bomb can only blast things, but nanomachines and AI [artificial intelligence], can be used to infiltrate, seize, change, and govern a territory of a world. 

The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Afghanistan.

Contention Two is Solvency - 
Years of war in Afghanistan means as we borrow money from China for Afghanistan, China grows from resource investment and debt servicing.
Think Deep 10 [“USA in Afghanistan, China not - US has HUGE Deficits, China has HUGE Surpluses” 11/26/10; http://www.anoox.com/news/show_selected_article.php?article=42341 //STRONG]//
//The 2nd reason given to us for the never ending Afghanistan War & occupation are that if we leave then the "bad Evil monster Terrorists in Afghanistan.." will take over Afghanistan and threaten us from there. Before debunking this reason, 1st consider these ABSOLUTE FACTS: 1- China has a border with Afghanistan 2- US is 10,000+ Kilometers from Afghanistan 3- China has HUGE Surpluses 4- US has HUGE deficits 5- Most of the US deficits are financed by China 6- Afghanistan/Iraq cost US Tax payers (aka Government) $1Trillion Dollars to date 7- Afghanistan will cost at current rates US Tax payers $200Bill per year - More Details 8- A typical US state gets about $10Bill from US Government in typical year 9- China is now the 3rd largest economy in the World So based on above FACTS this reason is a preposterous reasoning and patently absurd for if there were really these "bad Evil monster Terrorists in Afghanistan.." THEN why have they never bothered China which has a border with them? Or if there really were these "bad Evil monster Terrorists in Afghanistan" THEN WHY has China NOT sent in any troops across the border via trains and trucks to crush these "bad Evil monster Terrorists in Afghanistan.."? BUT instead China does not have 1 soldier in Afghanistan, China has not spent $1 fighting these "bad Evil monster Terrorists in Afghanistan". So just thinks how insane this is: here is US 10,000+ Kilometers from Afghanistan and it has 100,000+ troops in this poor desolate country at the cost of $200Bill per year to US Tax payer WHILE China that borders Afghanistan has ZERO troops in Afghanistan and has spends ZERO Dollars in fighting these "bad Evil monster Terrorists in Afghanistan.." Why China has ZERO troops in Afghanistan even though China borders Afghanistan? Because there is in fact ZERO real threat from the "bad Evil monster Terrorists in Afghanistan". And the ONLY threat that they pose is due to the fear-mongering and war-mongering by US Media, but no real threat, certainly NO threat that would warrant having US troops there. To see what a pathetic of a nothing threat Taliban/Alqaeda (aka Terrorist) are consider these FACTS: How many Tanks does Alqaeda have? ZERO. How many Fighter Planes does Alqaeda have? ZERO. How many Ships does Alqaeda have? ZERO. How many Missiles does Alqaeda have? ZERO. How many Helicopters does Alqaeda have? ZERO. How many Submarines does Alqaeda have? ZERO. How many Naval basis does Taliban or Alqaeda have? ZERO. How many Air Force basis does Taliban or Alqaeda have? ZERO. etc. etc. ZEROS are the arsenal (the threat) from Taliban or Alqaeda. Indicating that the fear we need to have from Alqaeda/Taliban should in fact be near ZERO - More here. And that is why China has ZERO troops in Afghanistan that borders it. HUGE Surpluses in China vs HUGE deficits in US As the ULTIMATE indication of what a lying machine US Media is, lying and lying on behalf of War profiteers, and how all Republicans and many Democrats too are in this scam, consider the FACT that Republicans and the right-wing Media in US claim that they are worried about the HUGE deficits in US when these HUGE deficits in US are to a great extent the result of US borrowing from China to fight the Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. So think how insane this is: this means that we are borrowing money from China to have 100K+ US troops in Afghanistan to "Fight the Evil Terrorists there..", an Afghanistan that borders China, which China is spending ZERO dollars for same reasoning on, meanwhile China is taking the Interest payments that we are paying her and spending these 100s of Billions of Dollars wisely on modern infrastructure, High Speed trains, renewable-energy, free health care, free University education, etc. as a result of which Chinese economy is doing MUCH BETTER than the US economy. Absolute proof of what a lying machine US Media is So to say that US Media is a right-wing LYING machine, lying and lying for the benefit of the War-mongers and others who profit from the non-Stop fear-mongering of the US Media, is really an understatement given the above horrendous FACTS, which can be summarized by the FACTS of US having 100,000+ troops in Afghanistan at the cost of $200Bill per year to American Tax per year, which money is borrowed from the Communist Capitalist nation of China, which country borders Afghanistan and it is spending ZERO dollar to fight the "Evil Terrorists.." in Afghanistan. So why the lies about this unnecessary Afghanistan War The obvious question that you may have after reading the above FACTS is then why would the Big (Wall Street backed) Media in US lie and lie and lie to us about justifying this totally unnecessary Afghanistan War? The 1st obvious answer of course is due to what General Eisenhower warned us about, which is the military industrial complex. After all to see how Gargantuan US Military budget has become and thus the US Media has had to lie and mislead to enable this Gargantuan US Military budget is to consider these FACTS: 1- US Military budget is larger than Military budget of all other countries on earth combined while today US economy is NOT even 15% of World economy 2- US Military budget was about 400Bill when the Soviet Union existed because, we were told we need a 400Bill Military budget to defend ourselves from Communist Soviet Union which has a Military with 50,000 fighter Jets, 300,000 Tanks, 5Mill soldiers, etc. etc. Well Soviet Union on its own disbanded, it has taken its Military budget down to about 20Bill per year, and how much did the US Military budget go down as a result of the threat of Communist Soviet Union not being there? Astonishingly US Military budget rather than being cut down from 400Bill per year, because the threat of the Soviet Union disappeared, it has risen to the mind bugling level of $600Bill year!!! The 2nd answer, not so obvious, but even more insidious than the 1st answer, as horrendous as the 1st answer is, is that the (Wall Street backed) Media, aka right-wing Media, has to engage in continuous fear-mongering to distract the people's mind from realizing that in fact the Republicans and the right-wing Media that they control, are the real enemy of the American people, as per the example of the ABSOLUTE FACT that US does not have something as basic for its people as Universal nationalized health care, because Republicans and right-wing Media oppose this, while ALL Conservative parties, again the Conservatives and not even the liberal parties, in Europe, Canada, Japan, Australia, etc. are 100% for their Universal nationalized health care systems - More Here. It gets even worst - at the End China is going to Win in Afghanistan As bad as the above facts are, as much as they indicate that Republicans and the right-wing Media, which is 98% of US Media, will say any LIES and non-sense to get away with the Con Job that they are running on American people, the even worst fact, well prediction which is based on facts, is that at the end of US wasting $1Trillion of American Tax payers money on the totally unnecessary Afghanistan War, it is predicted that China will be the real winner in Afghanistan given the facts that: 1- Afghanistan has enormous natural resources which can be only brought to market by substantial outside investments, sort of things that China has been doing from Africa to Brazil 2- China borders Afghanistan - remember this fact 3- Afghan people do not hate the Chinese as they hate the Americans now for 8 years of occupation and killing of their civilians 4- While US has been wasting American Tax payers money on one unnecessary war after another and a Gargantuan Military resulting in HUGE deficits in US, China has been investing in infrastructure during the same time so she can readily move the Afghanistan natural resource from Afghanistan to World markets In fact the prediction that China will at the end be the real Winner in Afghanistan is made not just by liberal thinkers, but even by the right-wing Media. More on that here: China, Not U.S., Likely to Benefit from Afghanistan's Mineral Riches Who’s Going to Win in Afghanistan? China. So just think how insane the above facts are, in summary they mean: 1- Us is borrowing $1Trillion from China to fight a totally unnecessary War in Afghanistan, a country that borders China, to bring some stability to Afghanistan - at best. 2- China meanwhile has been using the interest payments on these Trillions of Dollars that it has loaned to US Government for unnecessary Wars in Afghanistan & Iraq to turn China into a modern and thriving economy, where it is the 3rd largest economy in the World and growing MUCH FASTER than US 3- And at the end of this unnecessary War in Afghanistan China is going to be the real winner in Afghanistan//

//Specifically China is about to get access to oil and minerals that spur growth//
//Patel and Capezza 9 [Nirav Patel, David Capezza: Small Wars Journal: “Assessing Prospects for U.S.-China-Afghanistan Cooperation” Op-Ed 4/1/9; http://www.cnas.org/node/859// STRONG]
The potential for foreign investment, specifically by China, does not end there. Afghanistan is a country full of natural oil, gas, and mineral reserves, many of which remain unexplored or underdeveloped. In its most recent estimate the U.S. geological survey conclude that there are a potential 1,596 million barrels of oil in the northern parts of the country and 15,687 cubic feet of potential natural gas reserves. Couple this with the iron ore deposits between Herat and Panjsher Valley, gold reserves in Badakshan, Takar, and Ghazhi, more copper reserves in Jawkhar and Darband, and China is sitting on the proverbial “gold mine” for investment. Moreover, China’s economy increasingly needs just these types of resources to continue its own domestic output and economic growth. 

China’s Economy is on the brink of growth – US presence in Afghanistan gives them the resources to make it sustainable—the plan stunts growth and prevents a china rise
Barnett 10 [Thomas P.M. Barnett, Ph.D in Political Science from Harvard, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, a contributing editor for Esquire magazine, and Distinguished Scholar and Author at the Howard H. Baker, Jr. Center for Public Policy at the University of Tennessee, “The New Rules: China Still Needs U.S. in Global Security Role,” September 20, 2010, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com//articles/6445/the-new-rules-china-still-needs-u-s-in-global-security-role// STRONG]
Nowhere is this truer than in China's stunning rise, which has seen it become, in the historical blink of an eye, globalization's primary engine of new connectivity. And it has scaled these commanding heights with nowhere near a commensurate level of political-military influence, much less hard assets. China is rapidly shifting from being largely self-sufficient in most strategic resources to being frighteningly dependent for them on virtually all the world's most unstable regions. Yet its military footprint remains regional in scope, and its defense budget, despite years of double-digit percentage growth, still stands at roughly one-fifth of America's bloated total. Meanwhile, China enjoys a comprehensive, if limited liability partnership with the United States, in which we cover the security costs of China's strategic investments across the developing world. We invade Iraq, but China's national oil company, Sinopec, is the only foreign firm to ink drilling deals in both the Kurdish north and Arab south. Likewise in Afghanistan, America shoulders the burden of the current military surge, while China plunks down the biggest foreign direct investment in Afghanistan's history -- on a copper mine. America similarly conducts a "war on drugs" across Latin America, even as China builds a "superport" in Brazil for its "Chinamax" ships to haul away minerals from the world's biggest source of iron ore. And America may have a new Africa Command, but it's China that successfully conducts an economic "invasion" of that increasingly vibrant continent. Now, China's flag is slowly beginning to follow -- albeit nervously. The venerable Selig Harrison recently claimed that several thousand People's Liberation Army troops had moved into northwest Pakistan to bolster that failing state's control over a corner of its disputed Kashmir territory. Of course, China often employs PLA troops at construction sites of strategic importance. But consider Harrison's description of Beijing's underlying rationale: China wants a grip on the region to assure unfettered road and rail access to the [Persian] Gulf through Pakistan. It takes 16 to 25 days for Chinese oil tankers to reach the Gulf. When high-speed rail and road links through Gilgit and Baltistan are completed, China will be able to transport cargo from Eastern China to the new Chinese-built Pakistani naval bases at Gwadar, Pasni and Ormara, just east of the Gulf, within 48 hours. Beijing was quick to denounce the report as complete fabrication. But whether or not you believe, as Harrison characterizes the situation, that Pakistan is "handing over de facto control of the strategic Gilgit-Baltistan region . . . to China," Beijing sent troops to join the construction effort because it knew the security situation there could suddenly turn volatile. Still, true to form, PLA casualties in Pakistan, as elsewhere, hover at zero, even as America provides billions of dollars in military aid to Islamabad, and U.S. special forces and drones help Pakistan's military wage war against indigenous Islamic extremists. Paradoxically, although America derives little direct economic benefit from all its burdensome policing of the planet, the United States -- and not China -- is routinely slotted in the role of "imperial power." Talk about historically displaced anger! Another paradox between reality and perception is that the unprecedented network of investment and trade ties that China is forging between "rising Asia" and the developing regions of Latin America and Africa is actually rebalancing the global economy in the manner demanded by the West. Though often portrayed as representing a threat to the U.S., these emerging relationships are actually birthing a self-sustaining source of economic growth independent of America's over-leveraged consumers. Over the past three decades, America allowed China to use the dollar to recycle its trade surplus back into our financial networks, thereby stimulating further demand for its exports. Beijing is now seeking to replicate that process across the developing world using its own currency, the renminbi, in a carefully unfolding experiment run first through Hong Kong's robust banking system. But even though the outcome of that process is ultimately what we need, establishing a third global reserve currency to help the euro discipline the dollar gets tricky. As the renminbi is increasingly amassed by self-interested outside players, Beijing will slowly lose control of its exchange and interest rates, opening a breach in its monetary firewall against imported inflation. That firewall, embodied in China's longtime peg of the renminbi to the dollar, is what has allowed Beijing to engineer its fantastic annual growth rate while maintaining the brutally low "China price." We may think China's economy has matured to the point of reasonably tossing aside that protectionist advantage, but 700 million interior-dwelling and still-impoverished Chinese beg to differ. And any sudden destabilization of the Chinese motor to globalization's further evolution could jeopardize the entire machine, stalling it in its current unsustainable form. As a result, Beijing is running a race with itself -- simultaneously shifting internal investment inward from the increasingly costly coastal provinces, while systemically securing access to raw materials from around the world for its resource-ravenous economy. For the foreseeable future, China's political leadership is highly incentivized to free-ride on America's willingness to police the planet, especially since the Chinese military's clumsy entry onto the East Asian security stage is already triggering a region-wide surge in weapons-spending and driving several scared neighboring states into Washington's strategic embrace. 

The plan solves Chinese access to the resources and growth
Patel and Capezza 9 [Nirav Patel, David Capezza: Small Wars Journal: “Assessing Prospects for U.S.-China-Afghanistan Cooperation” Op-Ed 4/1/9; http://www.cnas.org/node/859 //STRONG]//
//And yet, China’s economic successes, whether they lie in Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, or the broader region of Central Asia, heavily rely on Western forces, U.S. or NATO, to safely secure the regions in order for economic markets to prosper. Herein lies the conundrum: China’s foreign policy and investment strategy eschew military commitments in favor of purely economic gains. Conversely, the West, as it strives to secure these countries and regions focuses primarily on security and stabilization operations, leaving foreign investment on the backburner.//

//China can’t even get to resources without US presence- the plan is sufficient to solve//
//Wallace 10 [Charles; “China, Not US likely to benefit from Afghanistan’s Mineral riches” 6/14/10; http://www.dailyfinance.com/2010/06/14/china-us-afghanistan-mineral-mining/// STRONG]
Yeager also said the cozy relationship between the Russian and Chinese governments and Russian and Chinese mining firms gave them a major advantage over Western firms in winning mining licenses. MCC, for example, is 44% owned by the Chinese government. When MCC entered into negotiations with the government of Afghan President Hamid Karzai, it offered substantial aid for resource development as part of the package, Yeager says. The United States, on the other hand, has no program to support U.S. mining companies with development assistance or other aid. The irony is that it is U.S. government geologists and Western companies that are locating the vast mineral deposits that the Chinese and Russians are exploiting in Afghanistan. "The problem with the Chinese is that they are developers of resources and not explorers of resources," Yeager says. "They will look at projects where they already have a reserve in place and then go out and buy it. They don't spend the risk capital and the exploration dollars." According to Yeager, the countries that are doing the most exploration are Australia and Canada. But they also don't pay bribes to local officials or provide vast amounts of state aid to the government in return for valuable mining licenses.

The plan causes China to actively stop warming to make their growth sustainable
China Daily, 8 (“'Green opportunities' in economic slowdown” http://www.china.org.cn/environment/news/2008-11/06/content_16719095.htm) 
An economic slowdown can help China realize energy-saving and emission control targets that the government might have previously found difficult to achieve, leaders in the environmental sector have said. "We hope China's stimulus plan, amid the global recession, can encompass decisive elements in achieving sustainable and low-carbon development," said Wu Changhua, Greater China director of the London-based environmental organization, The Climate Group, at a discussion yesterday on the current financial crisis and climate change. The authorities could embark on a low-carbon development path by realizing its new stimulus plan and shaking off excessive slowdown, Wu said.The government had previously said reaching energy-saving targets were 'challenging'. In 2006, China cut energy use by 1.23 percent, but its target was 4 percent. It was closer to the target last year, but still short by 0.34 of a percentage point. Liu He, deputy director of the Office of the Central Leading Group on Finance and Economy Work, also told China Daily recently that the economic slowdown could work as an opportunity for China to restructure its economy, which had previously relied heavily on government investment, foreign trade and low-cost technology over the past few years. Liu said China is likely to embark on a low-carbon path, which means it will implement tougher measures to save energy, control emissions and promote responsible investment. Similarly, the closure of a number of factories in the steel, iron, concrete and other energy-intensive sectors could help China achieve its goal of cutting down per unit GDP energy intensity by 20 percent and pollutant emissions by 10 percent from 2006 to 2010, participants of the forum said.

===2ac cards=== 

====AT: Pscychoanalysis==== 

<span class="Underline">**There is no unconscious** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Salter, 52** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrew -- Lifetime Achievement Award Association for the Advancement of Behavioral Therapy, “The Case Against Psychoanalysis”, p. 8-10] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have not been trying to burlesque psychoanalysis. It is unnecessary to do so, for Freud has done it himself. Are not his theories a vulgarization of human nature, and do they not inflate the banal into the absurd? Freud was painstakingly thorough, and it is all on the record. There is no need to lie or to quote out of context. The truth is preposterous enough, and no observant reader can fail to note that Freud himself provides the evidence that refutes him. But how, you might ask, could anyone have taken these speculations seriously? Freud accomplished this by locating his grotesqueries in a vague place called the "unconscious." After all, since no one can possibly know (without an analyst's help) what goes on in the unconscious, who can deny the possible existence there of the most incredible witches' sabbaths? As Kanner29 says, "You ignorant mother think that, when the baby sucks at the breast or drinks from the bottle, he does it merely to get some milk. The interpreters of the G. G. U. [Great God Unconscious] know better. The baby indulges in 'sexual activity not yet separated from the taking of nourishment.' His 'sexual aim consists in the incorporation of the object into his body.'3° The baby is passing through the oral or—you guessed it—cannibalistic phase of pregenital organization." The word "cannibalistic" is Freud's. Cannibalism had a fascination for Freud. He says, for example, "The idea of being eaten by the father belongs to the typical primal stock of childhood ideas."31 And on another occasion, "The dread of being eaten I have so far found only in men; it is referred to the father, but is probably the result of the transformation of oral aggressive tendencies directed upon the mother. The person the child wants to devour is the mother who nourished him." 32 But the child, to be sure, is not conscious of these impulses. They exist only in his "unconscious." And what is this "unconscious" anyway? Let Freud give his answer: ". . . we call 'unconscious' any mental process the existence of which we are obliged to assume." 33 (Notice the word "assume.") "There is no need to characterize what we call conscious: it is the same as the consciousness of philosophers and of every day opinion. Everything else that is mental is in our view unconscious."34 Now, just as the Freudians have tried to rewrite history when it comes to the sexual basis of analysis, so have they tried to reinterpret Freud's contentions about the "unconscious." In the last paragraph Freud ever wrote, he said, "The concept of the unconscious has long been knocking at the gates of psychology and asking to be let in. Philosophy and literature have often toyed with it, but science could find no use for it. Psycho-analysis has seized upon the concept, has taken it seriously and has given it a fresh content." 85 The fresh content, of course, is the content of penis envy, castration complex, cannibalism, and the Oedipus complex. This position, of course, is difficult to defend, so the analysts, fighting as they retreat, have declared, "Say what you will, Freud brought to the foreground the fact that our behavior is determined by the unconscious." To put it charitably, this is simply not so. James, Prince, Janet, Carpenter, Delboeuf, and Holmes, to name just a few, all wrote in great detail about unconscious activity. The contribution of psy- choanalysis was the sexualization of the unconscious. To speak loosely of the unconscious as being made up of such instincts as the individual possesses, and such habits as he has acquired from his environment, is the solution of common sense, and is, in fact, the solution of modern psychology. Our hearts beat, our lungs breathe, our stomachs digest, all quite unconsciously. Life would be quite impossible without this "unconscious." But Freud did not say that behavior was determined by the unconscious. What he said was that behavior is determined by the unconscious and the unconscious is the untrustworthy home of mysterious Oedipus complexes, cannibalistic urges, death instincts, and homosexual desires in everybody. As one psychoanalytic reviewer put it, Freud "brought to light the dark underworld of the unconscious, proving that every symbol and syllable is significant, and revealed how shallow the structure of Victorian common sense had been." Let me assure the gentleman that there is nothing wrong with common sense. It only looks peculiar when you stand on your head. Maier," on the strength of considerable research, concludes that his findings force him "to question the free use of the concept of the subconscious. . . . In psychoanalytic theory the subconscious is used as a mechanism in behavior and it finds its greatest use in explaining abnormal behavior. . . . If the concept of the subconscious is to be used as an explanatory • mechanism, it would seem that it should be more than a reservoir of directions and unrecalled memories . . ." And that, we must remember, happens to be what the Freudians think it is. Unconscious, preconscious, and conscious—that was how Freud had once classified mental life. We can visualize this in the form of a three-man totem pole, with the low man called Unconscious, the one squatting on his shoulders called Preconscious, and the high man Conscious. That had been the Freudian picture of the mind. But this totem pole soon became badly weatherbeaten, so right next to it Freud set up another three-man totem pole. This added to the confusion. As Freud's disciple Ernest Jones said, "It will not be quite easy to combine the two pictures thus obtained, for the classification is in some respects a crossed one." 37 On the new totem pole the low man was called the id. He is a horrible-looking creature, for he represents the primitive animal basis of the human being. Nevertheless, it is "The power of the id [that] expresses the true purpose of the individual organism's life."38 "The core of our being . . . is formed by the obscure id."39 Middle man on the totem pole is the ego. He sits on the shoulders of the id. "The severest demand upon the ego," says Freud, "is probably the keeping down of the instinctual claims of the id."" This is a difficult task indeed, for "The impulse desires which are born anew with everybody are those of incest—cannibalism —and lust of murder."" The ego is just the "organized part of the id,' 42 and "On the whole the ego has to carry out the intentions of the id." 43 And considering the fact that the id, the low man on the totem pole, is a "cauldron of seething excitement," 44 the ego needs help in keeping him repressed. Freud provides this help by weighing down the ego with a high man on the totem pole—the super-ego. If all this seems too ridiculous, I can only tell the reader what Freud said about the ego: "The ego can take itself as object, it can treat itself like any other object, observe itself, criticize itself, and do Heaven knows what besides with itself."45 At any rate, balanced precariously on top of the ego sits the super-ego. He has a blue nose and a righteous air. He is the voice of convention, prohibition, and thou-shalt-not. In the case of the neurotic individual, the "Super-Ego deals with his Ego like a strict father with a child, and his idea of morality displays itself in primitive ways by making the Ego submit to punishment by the Super-Ego. Illness is employed as a means for this `self-punishment.' The neurotic has to behave as though he were mastered by guilt, which the illness serves to punish, and so to relieve him."4° All in all, the super-ego's "chief function remains the limitation of satisfactions." 47 Let us walk with a flashlight into the dark Freudian graveyard and take an inventory. In the darkness loom the two totem poles—the totem of consciousness, and the totem of id levels. Deeper in the graveyard are Freud's five mortuary statues—pairs of wrestlers grappling with each other, the so-called polarities: 1. Eros vs. Thanatos: life wrestling with death. There is an inscription saying that this is also called Love vs. Hate. 2. Activity vs. Passivity. This statue is battered and broken, and remains only out of courtesy to the past. .3. Self vs. the Outer World. These wrestlers are subtitled Subject vs. Object. 4. Pleasure vs. Pain. Pleasure looks ecstatic, and has pinned down Pain, who is grimacing horribly. 5. The last polarity has Adam wrestling with Eve— and is otherwise called Masculinity vs. Femininity. Freud said nonchalantly of these "systems": "Such ideas are part of a speculative superstructure of psycho- analysis, any portion of which can be abandoned or changed without loss or regret the moment its inadequacy has been proved." 48 Depending upon the reality to be analyzed, or the dream to be interpreted,or the motive to be ascribed, the analyst has but to look through the graveyard and take his choice. One can call the totem poles and statuary many different names, but surely not "science." ". . . if one proceeds to a sufficiently abstract level . . . ," says Schafer," "one reaches a point where all things are true of all people; that is to say, we all have impulses or aspects of impulses which may be characterized as oral or clinging, anal or possessive, homoerotic, narcissistic, exhibitionistic, repressive, projective, hostile, and the like. The life of a human being is so complex that by the proper selection or interpretation one can set out, if he wishes, and find behavior items to confirm almost any interpretation." All this makes highly suspect any of the reports alleging laboratory proof of Freudian hypotheses. As Sears concluded, after making his classical Survey of Objective Studies of Psychoanalytic Concepts, 5° "the further analysis of psychoanalytic concepts may be relatively fruitless so long as those concepts rest in the theoretical framework of psychoanalysis." Freud's conception of evidence will surprise the reader who is accustomed to thinking that evidence means proof. "Castration," he says, "has a place, too, in the Oedipus legend, for the blinding with which Oedipus punished himself after the discovery of his crime is, by the evidence of dreams, a symbolic substitute for castration."" (Italics mine.) The evidence for the Oedipus complex is less than nil, yet Freud drags in "the evidence of dreams" in its support. Freud, in fact, was even wrong about the Oedipus myth in the first place. Mullahy, in his thoroughgoing book on the subject, says, 1. "In all except one of the older versions of the myth [Oedipus] does not marry his mother at al1. 52 2. "Another question: since Oedipus is the courageous and wise hero who defeats the Sphinx and is therefore the benefactor of Thebes, why is he the man who commits the crime which is considered to be the most horrible by his contemporaries?" 3. "Westermarck" [an anthropologist of the highest repute], after submitting Freud's notions about the Oedipus complex to a long searching examination, concludes that the 'facts which have been adduced in support of the supposed prehistoric events to which Freud has attributed the inhibition of incest have thus in each case been found to be worthless as evidence.' 55 4. "Fromm claims [and this interpretation, at least, makes some sense] 'that the [Oedipus] myth has to be understood not as a symbol of the incestuous tie between mother and son, but as the rebellion of the son against the authority of the father in the patriarchal family. . . "56 I shall not present any of the evidence showing how completely wrong Freud was in declaring that the Oedipus complex was true of all people, in all places, at all times. No one seriously contends this any more. Instead, various well-meaning souls have tried to transform the incestuous, murderous, and symbolically castrated Oedipus into a good citizen. This they have tried to do by spraying him with a bland anthropological mist. Like this, for example: "This means," says Bateson," "that the constellation into which the child is born, the Oedipus situation which he encounters, varies profoundly from culture to culture." Now, in these "enlightened" days, we all know that family life reflects aspects of the environment in which it finds itself. This is a well-established fact, and I grant that it is worthy of intensive study. But subtly to extend the Oedipus complex into a synonym for the study of child development and family life is, as Jung said of Freudian psychosexuality, "an unscientific and logically unjustifiable extension." Freud made himself quite clear as to what he meant by the Oedipus complex, and he was completely wrong. We have nothing to gain by using his concepts. More generally, it is confusing, and I think it is poor method, for persons to interpret their findings in old Freudian terms into which they have injected new and variable meanings. This policy results only in the confusion and degradation of psychology. </span></span>


<span class="Underline">**Psychology is NOT the root of violence – policymakers rely on rational thought.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Blight 1987** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James G.–Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts – American Psychologist –Volume 42, Issue 1, obtained via CSA Illumina Database//STRONG]// </span></span>
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">What needs to be noticed first and appreciated about these formulations of Osgood and Schelling is how utterly incommensurable they are with respect to the determinants of risk of nuclear war. Using a method one might call fear assessment, Osgood attributed the rising risk of war to deep fear and tension caused by continued participation in the arms race. To Schelling, however, risk of war has little to do with any hypothetical psychological strain and everything to do with coming off second best in a net threat assessment. To characterize the conceptual gulfbetwegn them in its starkest form, Osgood (and most psychologists) believe that any nuclear war will likely be caused by threats, whereas Schelling (and most policymakers and analysts) believe it will be prevented by them. No wonder that GRIT, a pillar of received wisdom among psychologists, is regarded as a curiosity among policymakers. It is important to notice, finally, why GRIT and its descendants are so wide of the mark of policy relevance. It is because they represent a "depth" psychology, an attempt at psychological unveiling of processes that are deeper than the conscious experience of nuclear policymakers. The implicit claim is that efforts to deter nuclear war by the maintenance of strategic stability, which seems to policymakers to be the cornerstone of war prevention, are "really" the very opposite--they are the likely cause of nuclear war. Psychologists tend to see this as a tale of two zeitgeists, one superficial and false (the policymakers') and one deep and true (the psychologists'). Obviously policymakers have had none of this. They are in fact much more likely to echo the remark of the Viennese journalist Karl Kraus, who described the original depth psychology this way: "Psychoanalysis is that spiritual disease of which it considers itself to be the cure" (cited in Janik & Toulmin, 1973, p. 75). The lack of seriousness with which nuclear policymakers have viewed schemes like GRIT seems to prove the point rather conclusively. This point cannot be emphasized too much; its unravelling represents the critical thrust of this article: Nuclear depth psychology does not lead to policy-relevant conclusions. It is a conceptual cul-de-sac within which psychologists are likely to remain endlessly trapped, without a reasonable hope of contributing to the reduction of nuclear risks,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stopped here at 08:22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the fear of which drove them into the nuclear arena in the first place. If psychologists seek a realistic hope of influencing nuclear policy, they must, as I argue in the last two sections, begin again after they have divested themselves of their spurious nuclear depth psychology. The nub of their central error was captured many years ago by William James. He called it, on one occasion, "the psychologists' fallacy par excellence," which confi.~ts in "confusion of his own standpoint with that of the mental fact about which he is making his report" (James, 1890, Vol. 1, p. 196). "We must," cautioned James, "be very careful, therefore, in discussing a state of mind from the psychologists' point of view, to avoid foisting into its own ken matters that are only there for ours" (James, 1890, Vol. 1, p. 197). But this is precisely what nuclear depth psychologists have not done. In Jamesian terms (James, 1890, Vol. 1, pp. 221-223), our nuclear policymakers are well acquainted with the fear of crises leading potentially to nuclear war, and thus they spend much of their time thinking about the determinants of strategic stability in such a way as to try to drive downward the probability that deterrence will fail. This, schematically, is the psychological reality of the nuclear policymakers. It bears no resemblance whatever to the "reality" that nuclear depth psychologists seek to attribute to them: Acquaintance with pathological suspicion and attention to arms "racing," each of which is ultimately attributable to superpower psychopathology. This, finally, is responsible for the policy irrelevance of the whole approach: Its premises are totally alien, psychologically completely unreal, to those who actually manage the nuclear risks. </span></span>//

//<span class="Underline">**Psychoanalysis is circular - prefer our empirical truth claims** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Salter, 52** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrew -- Lifetime Achievement Award Association for the Advancement of Behavioral Therapy, “The Case Against Psychoanalysis”, p. 8-10] </span></span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is as easy to nail a custard pie to the wall as to pin down the Freudian speculations about the "death instinct" and "aggression." As Professor Sears says, ". . . Freud never formalized his theories of aggression or the death instinct in such a way as to make the experimental data particularly relevant."il And so it is with most psychoanalytic writing—vague speculations made to appear like facts. So far we have considered the psychoanalytic theories. What then is done with these incredible speculations?* Are they allowed to gather dust in libraries as a record of one of the many follies that periodically afflict the human race? Not at all. These nightmarish fancies are applied to the treatment of tormented human beings. In a psychoanalyst's office the patient lies stretched out on a couch, much as in an undertaker's parlor. The patient tells the analyst whatever crosses his mind and tries carefully to remember his dreams. The analyst listens. He tells the patient as little as possible. As the analyst watches the patient digging into his own memories, the analyst looks for one thing alone. He hunts the incredible nonsense about sexuality and the death instinct called for by psychoanalytic theory. As one of my cases put it, "I didn't resent spilling my guts. It was just that it didn't help." He was being unfair. Analysis has helped. "The neuroses are 'cured' by osteopathy, chiropractic, nux vomica and bromides, benzedrine sulfate, change of scene, a blow on the head, and psycho-analysis, which probably means that none of these has yet established its real worth in the matter, and surely that psychoanalysis is no specific. Moreover, since many neuroses are self-limited, anyone who spends two years with a patient gets credit for the operation of nature." 13 That was the conclusion of the late digtinguished psychiatrist, Dr. Abraham Myerson, after checking the attitudes toward psychoanalysis of 307 neurologists, psychiatrists, and psychologists. More concisely, he said, "I state definitely that as a therapeutic system psychoanalysis has failed to prove its worth." The followers of psychoanalysis know that their ridiculous fantasies melt into air the moment they are subjected to the harsh light of science. Consequently, Freud introduced his last book by saying, "The teachings of psychoanalysis are based upon an incalculable number of observations and experiences, and no one who has not repeated those observations upon himself or upon others is in a position to arrive at an independent judgment of it." 14 Or, as another analyst said it, "Nobody can really understand what it [psychoanalysis] is all about without having been analyzed."15 This "defense is lame and question-begging," said Joseph Jastrow. "It is used by proponents of cults and quackeries . . . Even if I had the proverbial nine lives to live, I should not feel the obligation to devote one apiece to the practice of physiognomy, phrenology, astrology, numerology . . . and Freudian psychoanalysis, in order . . . to indicate the gross and flagrant violations of logic and sanity which they present." 16 And Professor Richard T. LaPiere of Stanford University has said that it is preposterous to say that one cannot possibly understand or criticize psychoanalysis because "he has not been inducted into the mysteries of the cult. If one must believe in a system of interpretation before one can test it against reality, that system is necessarily contrascientific." 17 It is generally believed that a good way to assess a scientific system is to study it by techniques, attitudes, and concepts external to it. But the Freudians, as we have seen, insist that this may not be done. Consequently, psychoanalysis, as it talks about its discoveries, is like a dog chasing its tail. It discovers nothing new, only itself, and barks out the great news to the world. This metaphor is frivolous, but it is well sustained. </span></span>//

//You don’t turn warming- we turn the K//
//Dyer 8 <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. H.C. Dyer, School of Politics & International Studies (POLIS) @ University of Leeds, “The Moral Significance of 'Energy Security' and 'Climate Security” Paper presented at WISC 2nd Global International Studies Conference, ‘What keeps us apart, what keeps us together? International Order, Justice, Values’http://www.wiscnetwork.org/ljubljana2008/getpaper.php?id=60 </span></span>//STRONG] 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is already considerable concern and cooperative activity, but it must also cope with predominately structural obstacles. Beyond the practical problem of coping with existing structures, or changing them, is the deeper problem of assuming foundational points of reference for any given structural reality such that challenging or changing it is difficult or impossible. So there is an intellectual, or attitudinal, hurdle to leap at the outset – we’d have to accept that some deeply held assumptions are simply not viable (sustainable), and learn to let them go. I have suggested elsewhere that while ‘perspectives on politics in the absence of immutable external foundations may be quite widely accepted… there is a great temptation in public discourses to deal with uncertainty by positing certainties, and to play fundamentalist trump cards of different kinds’ (Dyer, 2008). Switching from one foundational reference to another is not likely to work, and the anti-foundational perspective taken here suggests a pragmatic approach to developing the most effective social practices as we learn them, and adjusting structures to support them. An institutional context illustrates the discourse, in so far as ‘some controversial principles, such as whether to approach from an anthropocentric perspective or from a biocentric approach, or whether the viewpoint was from the individual or community, were the focus of considerable debate’. Not surprisingly, there is an air of realism about the application of ethical principles on renewable energy: ‘although a normative declaration would be nice, it was not feasible in the current political environment’ (UNESCO 2007; 7). The pragmatism is, nevertheless, appropriate since there is no progress to be made by assuming that an appreciation of the moral significance of energy and climate security only bears on abstractions – the point is that the underlying values reflected in political agendas should be flushed out, and the most appropriate values promoted and acted upon in a pragmatic fashion as interests. For example, it was noted that ‘barriers to renewable energy systems were institutional, political, technical and financial’ and also that there is ‘potential conflict between bioregional, potentially unstable energy systems and countries’ desires for energy independence and self-reliance’; this suggests the need for a ‘global eco-ethics’ (UNESCO 2007; 8). Pragmatism is inherent in thinking through the moral significance of such challenges: ‘From the ethical point of view, nuclear power presented many problems at each point of the complex supply chain, including uranium mining, enrichment, and risk management in a functioning plant. It was a highly centralized and state-controlled source of energy that did not promote participatory democracy’. It can also be seen that ‘nuclear and fossil-fuel based power also triggered international conflicts’. By contrast, ‘renewable energies such as solar, wind, small hydro, biomass, geothermal and tidal energy are often decentralized and can be used in remote areas without a solid energy supply system’ (UNESCO 2007; 8-9). The moral significance of energy security and climate security dilemmas is that they cause us to see change as a challenge, rather than impossible; a challenge to be met by reconsidering our value-orientations – which changes everything. Elsewhere I’ve noted that goals which the state purports to serve (health, wealth, security) are seen differently in an environmental light, and this could lead to substantial change in political practices (Dyer, 2007). Another pragmatist, John Dewey, ‘argued that the public interest was to be continuously constructed through the process of free, cooperative inquiry into the shared good of the democratic community’ and Minteer suggests that this is a necessary approach ‘in making connections between normative arguments and environmental policy discourse’ (Minteer, 2005). This reflects Hayward’s argument that environmental values are supported by enlightened human interests, and furthermore this link must exist to promote ecological goods, and that consequently there are serious implications in fully integrating environmental issues into our disciplinary concerns (Hayward, 1998). I’ve argued before that environmental politics dislodges conventional understandings of moral and political agency, and in ‘this wider socio-political-economic context, ecological significance may be the determining factor in the end’ (Dyer, 2007). Hargrove (1989) makes an argument for anthropocentric, aesthetic sources of modern environmental concern by identifying attitudes that constrained (‘idealism’, ‘property rights’) and supported (scientific and aesthetic ideals) our environmental perspectives. If this argument doesn’t stretch us much beyond ourselves, there is no reason these anthropocentric orientations couldn’t be built upon as a foundation for more specifically ecocentric perspectives. The key here is to identify the underlying ‘security’ assumptions which thwart efforts to cope with energy and climate issues coherently and effectively, and to advocate those assumptions that serve genuine long-term human security interests (inevitably, in an ecological context). In this way can we take stock of the existing structures that constrain and diminish human agency – while conceiving of those that would liberate and secure it in sustainable ways. As the reality of the situation slowly dawns on us, various moral, political, economic and social actors are beginning to consider and test new strategies for coping – the real question is whether they are just playing to beat the clock, or if they’ve stopped long enough to reconsider the rules and purposes of the strategic context in which they act. 'Security' as cause and effect of a moral turn Security is central to understandings of the responsibilities of states, even definitional in their self-conception as defenders of the nation, with moral obligations to their own population which include defending them from external threats of all kinds (even if threats to nationals commonly emanate from their own state, per Booth’s ‘protection racket’, 1995). Security is usually the first concern of individuals as well, even extending to protective self-sacrifice (if sometimes greed or pleasure usurps this priority). The boundaries of concern and felt responsibility for security are nevertheless potentially flexible, and moral obligations may vary over time and space (who’s included, who’s not; when, where). The rationale for those obligations may now be extending over wider ranges of time and space, especially within an ecological perspective on how ‘security’ might be obtained. In this way, alertness to the security implications of climate and energy drives moral development, while at the same time a developed sense of moral obligation prompts a recasting of these issues in more urgent security terms.</span></span>

====AT: Pakistan State Collapse DA==== 

<span class="Underline">**Warming turns terrorism- undermines vulnerable governments and leads to breeding grounds for terrorists.** </span>
<span class="Underline"> **AP 8**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">‘</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Global warming linked to terrorism’ Associated Press Washington, June 26, 2008 First Published: 22:45 IST(26/6/2008) Last Updated: 22:48 IST(26/6/2008) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Global warming probably will mean more illegal immigration and humanitarian disasters, undermining shaky governments and possibly expanding the terrorism threat against the US, intelligence agencies say. “Logic suggests the conditions exacerbated (by climate change) would increase the pool of potential recruits for terrorism,” said Tom Fingar, deputy director of national intelligence </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stopped here at 08:18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for analysis. Fingar said the intelligence agencies have only low to moderate confidence in the assessment because climate data tend to focus broad global changes instead of specific countries. Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and Central and Southeast Asia are most vulnerable to warming-related drought, flooding and hunger. The assessment warns of a global spillover from increased migration and water-related disputes, Fingar said in prepared remarks Wednesday to a joint hearing of a special US House of Representatives committee on global warming and a House Intelligence subcommittee. Climate change alone would not topple governments, he said. But it could worsen problems such as poverty, disease, migration and hunger, creating conditions that could destabilize already vulnerable areas, Fingar said. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan is key** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Lieven 12/20** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anatol Lieven is a professor in the war studies department of King’s College London and a senior fellow of the New America Foundation in Washington. His next book, Pakistan: A Hard Country, will be published in April by PublicAffairs. “How the Afghan Counterinsurgency Threatens Pakistan” http://www.middle-east-online.com/english/?id=43127 //Donnie) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But if Pakistan is vital to a settlement, Pakistan is also vital in itself. It cannot be emphasized too strongly that the survival of Pakistan, not Afghanistan, is the most important issue for Western and global security in that region. With six times Afghanistan's population, plus nuclear weapons, a highly trained 500,000-man army and a huge diaspora (especially in Britain), Pakistan would increase the international terrorist threat by orders of magnitude if it collapsed. There is a widespread (though exaggerated) view in the West that the weakness of the Pakistani state and the strength of Islamist support makes the country's collapse a real possibility. Leaving aside the danger (as exposed by WikiLeaks) of nuclear materials and skills reaching terrorist groups, the disintegration of the Pakistani army, with its highly trained engineers and anti-aircraft forces, would vastly increase the "conventional" terrorist threat to India and the West. It was therefore with horror that I recently heard that the diminished threat from Al Qaeda means that some Western security officials are suggesting that the West can afford to put much more pressure on Islamabad to attack Taliban strongholds in Pakistan's border region, even though this may lead to greater destabilization within Pakistan. This is lunatic reasoning. The diminished power of Al Qaeda should be cause for the United States and NATO to find ways to withdraw from Afghanistan, not step up the fight against the Taliban -- since it was to fight Al Qaeda that we went there in the first place. As for the terrorist threat to the West, this has never come from the Afghan Taliban -- but it increasingly comes from the Pakistani Taliban and their allies, as the case of attempted Times Square bomber Faisal Shahzad demonstrates. Unfortunately, the current US strategy is headed in the opposite direction from using Pakistan to broker a settlement, and toward an intensified fight against the Taliban and intensified pressure on Pakistan. Even worse, there are barely the rudiments of a Plan B if that strategy fails. If it proves impossible to strengthen the Afghan National Army sufficiently within the next two years, the options will be stark: Either US forces will have to fight on in Afghanistan indefinitely or they will have to accept the probable loss of the south and east of the country and either unending civil war or de facto partition through bloody war rather than negotiated agreement. Among other things, all these options will be bad for Pakistan, especially if India is drawn into much greater support for the anti-Taliban forces in Afghanistan. This would in effect lead to an Indo-Pakistani proxy war in Afghanistan. It is worth looking closely at Soviet strategy in Afghanistan, for the current US approach is a variant of that strategy, albeit with serious -- and potentially disastrous -- differences. This is to build up the Afghan army to the point where it can hold the main population centers against the insurgents, even as the United States and NATO try to break off as many of those insurgents as possible through a mixture of bribery and military pressure. This is not in itself a mistaken approach. After all, Soviet strategy succeeded. Backed by Soviet airpower, the Afghan army the Soviets left behind inflicted a shattering defeat on the mujahedeen in Jalalabad in the spring of 1989 (I was there on the mujahedeen side, as a young journalist for the Times of London). And with the Soviets gone, the nationalist element in hostility to the Kabul regime diminished, as educated and urban Afghans began to focus on what a victory of fanatical and brutalized rural guerrillas would mean for them. The Afghan communist regime actually outlived the Soviet Union, collapsing only when Soviet subsidies ended. If one assumes that, following its withdrawal from Afghanistan, the United States is not going to imitate the Soviet Union by abandoning its global role, adopting communism and disintegrating as a state, it is by no means implausible to imagine that the Afghan army, backed by US arms, money and airpower and facing a divided opposition, could hold off the Taliban after US ground forces withdraw. There are, however, immense problems, moral and practical, with this approach, and with how it is being pursued in detail by the US forces. Equally important, not merely does the United States not possess a Plan B but much of what the US military is doing will make the creation of a viable Plan B very difficult. The moral problem is that under this strategy the guerrilla war in Afghanistan will go on indefinitely, albeit perhaps -- but only perhaps -- at a gradually diminishing rate of violence. There will be no incentive for the Taliban leadership or their hardline followers to reach a settlement; and a Kabul regime that is bound to be more and more dominated by the military is also highly unlikely to seek such a settlement. Moreover, as long as the counterinsurgency continues, the Taliban will have every incentive to go on working with Al Qaeda and terrorist groups in Pakistan, which can provide them with limited but useful expertise in everything from the construction of IEDs to medical services. Equally important, the present Afghan state and army suffer from very important weaknesses compared with the Soviet-backed regime. Put simply, the Soviets inherited the still recognizable core of the old Afghan royal state and army as these had existed since the 1880s, together with their tradition of defending the cities and centers of government against a variety of tribal and religious rebels. Moreover, the old army was chiefly Pashtun in composition, and the man the Soviets chose to take over the state they left behind, Najibullah Khan, was a strongly Pashtun figure with prestige among some of the Pashtun tribes. In 2001 the United States smashed the Taliban quasi state, leaving Afghanistan essentially with no state, and no armed forces but the overwhelmingly non-Pashtun militias of the Northern Alliance. Although efforts to develop the army and bring more Pashtuns into it have been moderately successful, only a very small proportion of soldiers are from the southern areas that are the Taliban's stronghold. Whether the Afghan army will be able to hold the towns in these areas after the United States leaves is therefore highly questionable. Finally, in one critical respect US strategy is out of step with Soviet strategy, as well as with Afghan tradition. This is in Washington's insistence that "reconciliation" requires Taliban commanders to leave the Taliban publicly, submit to the regime of Hamid Karzai and the "Afghan Constitution," renounce violence and lay down their arms. In the vast majority of cases, this is simply not going to happen. It is too humiliating, and in the event of a Taliban victory it would be an automatic death sentence. Meanwhile -- as leading Karzai government officials have repeatedly indicated -- US airstrikes and Special Forces assassinations are killing some of the very Taliban commanders who might be persuaded to abandon the struggle, even if they will never formally surrender. The Soviets, like the British before them, pursued a very different and much more Afghan approach: Instead of paying mujahedeen commanders to change sides publicly, they paid them to pretend to fight, or to fight to a limited extent in some places while keeping key communications routes open. This strategy was pursued by the Kabul regime before and after the Soviet withdrawal, using Soviet money. Such deals were an open secret when I traveled in Afghanistan with the mujahedeen, and at one point or another they were made by many of the leading mujahedeen commanders. By contrast, in the analysis of two leading younger experts on the Taliban, Alex Strick van Linschoten and Felix Kuehn (in a forthcoming book, The Enemy We Created: The Myth of a Taliban/Al Qaeda Merger in Afghanistan, 1970–2010), the present strategy of killing midlevel Taliban commanders only clears the way for younger and far more radical figures to take their place. If the United States continues this strategy indefinitely, the consequences for Pakistan could be dire. It has been argued (by the British military chief, Gen. Sir David Richards, for example, in Prospect magazine) that it is necessary to defeat the Afghan Taliban in order to protect Pakistan from Islamist extremism. The truth is almost exactly the opposite. More than any other factor, it is our campaign in Afghanistan that has radicalized Pakistanis and turned many of them not only against the West but against their own government and ruling system. In the worst case, the consequence of Western actions could be to destroy Pakistan as a state and produce a catastrophe that would reduce the problems in Afghanistan to insignificance by comparison. Western military forces are seen by the overwhelming majority of Pakistanis with whom I have spoken over the past three years as engaged in an illegal occupation. The Pakistani government's cooperation with the United States is seen as a deep national humiliation and a betrayal of fellow Muslims. I do not endorse these views myself, but it is essential to recognize just how deep and widespread they are, and that a fateful symmetry is at work: While Western officials and journalists complain constantly that the Pakistani army is not doing enough to help the United States in Afghanistan, Pakistan's population regards it as doing far too much. To put it at its bluntest, most Pakistanis see our presence in Afghanistan as closely akin to that of the Soviets from 1979 to 1989, and resistance to us as closely akin to the resistance of those days, and equally legitimate. These feelings are held not just by Islamists but by those Pakistanis -- the great majority of the population -- who have no desire to see a Taliban-style regime in their country; just as Pakistanis in the 1980s who sympathized with the Afghan mujahedeen had no desire to see such forces rule Pakistan. In other words, sympathy for the Afghan Taliban by no means necessarily equates to sympathy for the Pakistani Taliban. I have found the former sympathy among educated people in Karachi who detest the Taliban's social program but who are prepared to allow the Afghan Taliban at least some legitimacy as a "resistance movement." In the Pashtun areas of Pakistan, the consequence first of the anti-Soviet war in the 1980s and now of the anti-American war has been to weaken still further the effectiveness and meaning of the frontier dividing the Pashtuns of Afghanistan and Pakistan. It is this ethno-religious solidarity, more than continuing support by the Pakistani state, that is providing the Afghan Taliban with their bases inside Pakistan. This support from large elements of the Pakistani population will continue as long as Western soldiers are present in Afghanistan. Their presence, as well as US drone strikes on targets in Pakistan, also helps legitimize the campaign of the Pakistani Taliban against the Pakistani state. Since the survival of that state is a US interest that vastly outweighs anything that might happen in Afghanistan, it follows that the US goal should be to reduce that presence as soon as this can be managed, not to follow a strategy that risks prolonging it indefinitely. </span></span>


<span class="Underline">**Army checks** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Bandow 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Fellow @ Cato, former special assistant to Reagan (11/31/09, Doug, “Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">From Pakistan's perspective, limiting the war on almost any terms would be better than prosecuting it for years, even to "victory," whatever that would mean. In fact, the least likely outcome is a takeover by widely unpopular Pakistani militants. The Pakistan military is the nation's strongest institution; while the army might not be able to rule alone, it can prevent any other force from ruling.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stopped here at 08:18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed, Bennett Ramberg made the important point: "Pakistan, Iran and the former Soviet republics to the north have demonstrated a brutal capacity to suppress political violence to ensure survival. This suggests that even were Afghanistan to become a terrorist haven, the neighborhood can adapt and resist." The results might not be pretty, but the region would not descend into chaos. In contrast, warned Bacevich: "To risk the stability of that nuclear-armed state in the vain hope of salvaging Afghanistan would be a terrible mistake." </span></span>


====AT: Ptx (SKFTA)==== 

<span class="Underline">**BULLET** </span>
<span class="Underline">**A. Libya** </span>
<span class="Underline">**USA TODAY 4/25** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David Jackson, “Obama faces pressure to do more in Libya” 4/25/11; http://content.usatoday.com/communities/theoval/post/2011/04/obama-faces-pressure-to-do-more-in-libya/1 //STRONG]// </span></span>
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama faces rising pressure to increase the U.S. military presence in Libya, though not with ground troops. "This is a pretty bloody situation, and it has the earmarks of being a stalemate," said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., speaking yesterday on NBC's Meet The Press. "We hope that (Moammar) Gadhafi will crumble from within, but hope is not a strategy." McCain and other senators did not call for ground troops but did back more U.S. air power, as well as better training and weapons for the Libyan rebels. The Arizona senator, who lost the 2008 presidential election to Obama, pointed out that only six of the 28 nations in NATO are participating in the Libya operation. "Our NATO allies neither have the assets, nor, frankly, the will," he said. Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Sen. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., also called for a stepped-up American posture in Libya. </span></span>//

//<span class="Underline">**B. Gas Prices** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Washington Post 4/25** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Perry Bacon Jr.; 04/25/2011; “White House continues focus on gas prices” http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/44/post/white_house_continues_focus_on_gas_prices/2011/04/25/AFCMKEkE_blog.html?wprss=44 </span></span>//STRONG] 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The White House continued its recent focus on high gas prices on Monday, as White House Press Secretary Jay Carney declared Americans “would be appalled to learn that major oil companies and gas companies will be announcing record profits this week.” The Obama administration, aware that high prices at the pump are dragging down the president’s approval ratings, has repeatedly noted its concerns about gas prices, even last week creating a task force to look into potential price-gouging. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Translation errors delay the bill at least 3 months** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Bernama 4/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Malaysian News Agency, “S Korean Government To Withdraw US FTA Bill From Parliament”, http://www.bernama.com/bernama/v5/newsworld.php?id=581954 //Rufus)// </span></span>
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">SEOUL, April 26 (Bernama) -- The South Korean government will temporarily withdraw its bill on the ratification of a free trade agreement (FTA) with the United States from parliament to correct translation errors, officials said Tuesday, a move that will again delay its approval by months. The South Korea-US free trade deal, known as the KORUS FTA, was signed nearly four years ago but has yet to be ratified by Seoul's National Assembly and the US Congress, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported. The government will finalise its decision to pull out the ratification bill at a Cabinet meeting slated for Thursday, the officials said, adding a new bill will be submitted to parliament next month after correcting translation errors. The government has not, at least publicly, placed a time line for the ratification of the trade deal, but the withdrawal of its ratification bill is expected to postpone the process at least by few months as the parliament will go into a month-long recess at the end of this month. The KORUS FTA is the second deal blocked by translation errors found in Korean-language versions after an FTA between Korea and the European Union (EU) also had translation errors. The government has already pulled out its Korea-EU FTA ratification bill twice due to the errors. Still, government efforts to implement the Korea-US FTA are gaining momentum following a flurry of visits from top US officials, calling for early ratification of the deal. Assistant US Trade Representative Wendy Cutler met with South Korea's Trade Minister Kim Jong-hoon in Seoul on Tuesday. Kim and Cutler were the top negotiators in talks for the Korea-US FTA. US Commerce Secretary Gary Locke is set to arrive here on Wednesday with a congressional delegation of five Democratic and Republican representatives on a fact-finding mission that the US Commerce Department said will help the legislators "witness how KORUS (FTA) will support job creation here at home and spur economic growth in both the US and Korea." The visits come shortly after US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said it was important to "keep making the case to both of our respective legislative bodies," following her own trip here last week. </span></span>//

//<span class="Underline"> **issues are compartmentalized** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Dickinson, 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/) </span></span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals about the basis of presidential power. Political scientists, like baseball writers evaluating hitters, have devised numerous means of measuring a president’s influence in Congress. I will devote a separate post to discussing these, but in brief, they often center on the creation of legislative “box scores” designed to measure how many times a president’s preferred piece of legislation, or nominee to the executive branch or the courts, is approved by Congress. That is, how many pieces of legislation that the president supports actually pass Congress? How often do members of Congress vote with the president’s preferences? How often is a president’s policy position supported by roll call outcomes? These measures, however, are a misleading gauge of presidential power – they are a better indicator of congressional power. This is because how members of Congress vote on a nominee or legislative item is rarely influenced by anything a president does. Although journalists (and political scientists) often focus on the legislative “endgame” to gauge presidential influence – will the President swing enough votes to get his preferred legislation enacted? – this mistakes an outcome with actual evidence of presidential influence. Once we control for other factors – a member of Congress’ ideological and partisan leanings, the political leanings of her constituency, whether she’s up for reelection or not – we can usually predict how she will vote without needing to know much of anything about what the president wants. (I am ignoring the importance of a president’s veto power for the moment.) Despite the much publicized and celebrated instances of presidential arm-twisting during the legislative endgame, then, most legislative outcomes don’t depend on presidential lobbying. But this is not to say that presidents lack influence. Instead, the primary means by which presidents influence what Congress does is through their ability to determine the alternatives from which Congress must choose. That is, presidential power is largely an exercise in agenda-setting – not arm-twisting. And we see this in the Sotomayer nomination. Barring a major scandal, she will almost certainly be confirmed to the Supreme Court whether Obama spends the confirmation hearings calling every Senator or instead spends the next few weeks ignoring the Senate debate in order to play Halo III on his Xbox. That is, how senators decide to vote on Sotomayor will have almost nothing to do with Obama’s lobbying from here on in (or lack thereof). His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee. </span></span>//


//<span class="Underline">**Link turns-** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**A.Clinton** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Mother Jones 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Hilary Clinton On Afghanistan” http://motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2009/09/hillary-clinton-afghanistan /Donnie) </span></span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">So we have to be really clear-eyed about this. I might be overinterpreting all this, but my take from this interview is that McChrystal wants to emphasize counterinsurgency (population protection, "heart and minds") more than counterterrorism (killing bad guys) while perhaps Clinton — and Obama? — would rather do the opposite. When Warner asks about governance, for example, Clinton doesn't seem very engaged: sure, Afghanistan is corrupt, but hey — the place has never been well governed and the improvements we're seeing now are nothing to sneeze at. But when Warner asks about al-Qaeda, Clinton gets much more animated. "We have to be really clear-eyed about this," she insists. There might be a bigger struggle over fundamental strategy going on in the White House than we think. </span></span>//

//<span class="Underline">**B. Biden** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**NYT 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Biden No Longer a Lone Voice on Afghanistan” http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/14/world/14biden.html </span></span>//Donnie) 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. Biden also engaged in a tough talk with Gen. Dan K. McNeill, the NATO commander in Afghanistan at the time. </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">His concept was to keep a small footprint, have an offshore strategy as the sole approach to seeking better security and stability in Afghanistan and focus on counterterrorism and the hard-core ideologues who won’t change,” General McNeill said. But the general disagreed: “It could lead to greater insecurity and instability in that region.” </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Their both key** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Mclarty and Cunningham 1/24**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mr. McLarty was chief of staff to President Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort. And Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden. “Obama's Free Trade Opportunity” 1/24/11 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954004576090290103169526.html?mod=googlenews_wsj //Donnie] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, the White House and cabinet must be unified in pulling for passage. Everyone from Vice President Joe Biden to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk must be fully engaged, without hesitation. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stopped here at 08:17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Don't forget the crucial role that then-Vice President Al Gore's 1993 debate with Ross Perot played in swinging public opinion in favor of Nafta. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Trade does not solve war—there’s no correlation between trade and peace** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Martin, Mayer, and Thoenig 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Phillipe, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, and Centre for Economic Policy Research; Thierry MAYER, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, CEPII, and Centre for Economic Policy Research, Mathias THOENIG, University of Geneva and Paris School of Economics, The Review of Economic Studies 75) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Does globalization pacify international relations? The “liberal” view in political science argues that increasing trade flows and the spread of free markets and democracy should limit the incentive to use military force in interstate relations. This vision, which can partly be traced back to Kant’s Essay on Perpetual Peace (1795), has been very influential: The main objective of the European trade integration process was to prevent the killing and destruction of the two World Wars from ever happening again.1 Figure 1 suggests2 however, that during the 1870–2001 period, the correlation between trade openness and military conflicts is not a clear cut one. The first era of globalization, at the end of the 19th century, was a period of rising trade openness and multiple military conflicts, culminating with World War I. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stopped here at 08:17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">₪</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Then, the interwar period was characterized by a simultaneous collapse of world trade and conflicts. After World War II, world trade increased rapidly, while the number of conflicts decreased (although the risk of a global conflict was obviously high). There is no clear evidence that the 1990s, during which trade flows increased dramatically, was a period of lower prevalence of military conflicts, even taking into account the increase in the number of sovereign states. </span></span>


==Round One== 

===1AC=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**All still the same as the old wiki but this was added to hegemony:**</span>

**Plan is key to Obamam power**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Bacevich, 10/5** [Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University, “Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439 //STRONG]//</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Bourne thereby identified ...of his administration.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict to escalate (feel free to highlight down)**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**South China Morning Post 2000** [No Author Given, South China Morning Post, December 11, 2000, accessed</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">October 28, 2010, Lexis STRONG]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A weak president with ... to use its power deftly and decisively.</span>

===2ac cards=== 
====AT: Whitney Young CP==== 
<span class="Underline">**B. Announcing no withdrawal fuels the insurgency** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Mesevage 9** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Gabriel Francis Geisler Mesevage; A Limited Commitment in Afghanistan; 2009; http://www.academyofdiplomacy.org/awards/GFGM_web.pdf//STRONG]// </span></span>
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The above recommendations hinge upon effectively communicating… expense of Pakistan’s stability. </span></span>//

//<span class="Underline">**Karzai corruption means inevitable COIN failure** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Galbraith 5/11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Peter W. Galbraith Former, U.N. Deputy Special Representative to Afghanistan http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/25/losing_obama?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full, “Losing Obama: Hamid Karzai's biggest problem isn't his relationship with the United States, but with his own country.”] </span></span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ahmed Rashid rightly derides both the Bush and Obama administrations for their inconsistent approach to Afghan President Hamid Karzai ("How Obama Lost Karzai," March/April 2011). </span></span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> But it is a very America-centric …losing his country. </span></span>//

//<span class="Underline">**Pakistan Co-op impossible** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Ashraf 4/28** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Sajjad, a member of Pakistan’s foreign service for 36 years, was High Commissioner to Singapore from 2004 to 2008. “Strains In US-Pakistan Security Cooperation: Implications For Afghanistan – Analysis”, http://www.eurasiareview.com/strains-in-us-pakistan-security-cooperation-implications-for-afghanistan-analysis-28042011/ </span></span>// jb] 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">UNITED STATES-PAKISTAN … and Pakistan is crucial. </span></span>

====AT: Whitney Young K==== 

<span class="underline">reps don’t shape reality- </span>
<span class="underline">Tuathail 96 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[Gearoid, Department of Geography at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct] </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">While theoretical debates at academic ….. strategies become significant. </span></span>

<span class="underline">Perm- do the plan and all non-competitive parts of the alt. Critical theory and problem solving theory are not incompatitable. </span>
<span class="underline">Widmaier 04<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> [Wesley, Poli Sci @ St. Joseph’s “Theory as a Factor and the Theorist as an Actor: The "Pragmatist Constructivist" Lessons of John Dewey and John Kenneth Galbraith” International Studies Review p. 445//STRONG]// </span></span>
//<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">In recent decades, the "research design….. as actors in international politics (Edwards 1990). </span></span>//

//<span class="underline">Realism is inevitable – any shift causes war. </span>//
//<span class="underline">Mearsheimer 01 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361</span></span>//STRONG] 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The optimists' claim that security competition ….. states in each region at peace. </span></span>

<span class="underline"> Self fulfilling prophecy is wrong- weakness is what spurs aggression. </span>
<span class="underline">Jervis 76 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[Robert, professor of political science at Columbia University, Perception and Misperception in International Politics, p. 84//STRONG]// </span></span>
//<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Spiral and deterrence theories thus contradict each other at every point…… allow them to attain parity. </span></span>//

//<span class="underline">Alt can’t solve- changing our discourse doesn’t eliminate security threats that already exist. </span>//
//<span class="underline">Copeland 2k <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[Dale, professor of government at University of Virginia, International Security 25:2, Fall 2000, </span></span>//STRONG] 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The book allows scholars to differentiate …It must be faced.</span></span>

====AT: Whitney Young Budget DA==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
<span class="Underline"> **It’s inevitable-Panetta’s agenda** </span>
American Thinker 4/28 </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Does Panetta nomination mean deeper defense cuts”, http://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2011/04/does_panetta_nomination_mean_d.html // jb]</span></span>
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is very probable that …or cut altogether. </span></span>**



=Negative= 


==Round the second== 
The 2NR was china dedev/pakistan state collapse good w/ the Russia impact, the Politics DA was skfta with a North Korea prolif/war impact, we read hayes and hamel-green 10 as the terminal impact. The Block was 
2NC Case
1NR SKFTA
have a nice day, thanks for reading this :)
===Pakistan state collapse Good 2NC=== 
Letting Pakistan start to collapse leads to crack down on terrorism—no risk of a turn 
Raman 10 ( B. Raman is Additional Secretary (retd), Cabinet Secretariat, Govt. of India, New Delhi, and, presently, Director, Institute For Topical Studies, Chennai and Associate, Chennai Centre For China Studies. E-mail: [[mailto:seventyone2@gmail.com|seventyone2@gmail.com]]
“Is Letting Pakistan Collapse An Option?” http://www.eurasiareview.com/is-letting-pakistan-collapse-an-option-26122010/ //Donnie)//
//The insincere counter-terrorism policies of the Pakistan Army come in the way of the restoration of law and order in the Pashtun belt. The worsening internal security situation and the persistent US criticism of its inaction against the Talibans and Al Qaeda demand that the Pakistan Army act firmly at least against the Pakistani Taliban. But,its interest in recovering its strategic depth in Afghanistan dictate that it avoid firm action against Pashtun terrorism. Its continued use of Punjabi terrorism against India demands that its support to the Punjabi terrorist organizations remain undiminished. The Pashtun terrorists are its strategic assets in Afghanistan. The Punjabi terrorists are its strategic assets against India. Unless there is an end to these contradictory and insincere policies, the US-led NATO forces are not going to prevail in Afghanistan. Nor is the US going to prevail against Al Qaeda in North Waziristan. Despite two years of intensified Drone strikes, the US is nowhere near victory against either Al Qaeda or the Talibans. Ground operations in Pakistani territory could lead to a disruption of NATO’s logistic supplies to its troops in Afghanistan through Pakistani territory. They are, therefore, unlikely. Deniable covert actions with the help of Pakistani assets well-disposed to the US could be an alternative, but the US has avoided building up a covert action capability which can be tried on the ground. The fear of Pakistan becoming a failed State prevents the US from acting tough against it. Soft options have failed to nudge Pakistan into acting against the terrorists. Hard options such as the denial of military and economic assistance are avoided lest there be a collapse of the State of Pakistan. The time has come to examine whether the collapse of Pakistan is something to be dreaded. A collapse could lead to a spell of sectarian anarchy, but not necessarily to the triumph of Al Qaeda and the Talibans. The very fact that the international community is prepared to let Pakistan collapse could induce some good sense in the thinking of its army and intelligence establishment. The army thinks that the world cannot afford to let Pakistan collapse. It has to be told that the world is prepared to let it collapse if it does not act against terrorism emanating from its territory effectively.//

//Terrorism causes nuclear miscalc –extinction//
//Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld I love you akshay!!!!!)//
//Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.//
//As part of its initial response to the act of nuclear terrorism (as discussed earlier) Washington might decide to order a significant conventional (or nuclear) retaliatory or disarming attack against the leadership of the terrorist group and/or states seen to support that group. Depending on the identity and especially the location of these targets, Russia and/or China might interpret such action as being far too close for their comfort, and potentially as an infringement on their spheres of influence and even on their sovereignty. One far-fetched but perhaps not impossible scenario might stem from a judgment in Washington that some of the main aiders and abetters of the terrorist action resided somewhere such as Chechnya, perhaps in connection with what Allison claims is the “Chechen insurgents’ … long-standing interest in all things nuclear.”42 American pressure on that part of the world would almost certainly raise alarms in Moscow that might require a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.//
//There is also the question of how other nuclear-armed states respond to the act of nuclear terrorism on another member of that special club. It could reasonably be expected that following a nuclear terrorist attack on the United States, both Russia and China would extend immediate sympathy and support to Washington and would work alongside the United States in the Security Council. But there is just a chance, albeit a slim one, where the support of Russia and/or China is less automatic in some cases than in others. For example, what would happen if the United States wished to discuss its right to retaliate against groups based in their territory? If, for some reason, Washington found the responses of Russia and China deeply underwhelming, (neither “for us or against us”) might it also suspect that they secretly were in cahoots with the group, increasing (again perhaps ever so slightly) the chances of a major exchange. If the terrorist group had some connections to groups in Russia and China, or existed in areas of the world over which Russia and China held sway, and if Washington felt that Moscow or Beijing were placing a curiously modest level of pressure on them, what conclusions might it then draw about their culpability?//
//If Washington decided to use, or decided to threaten the use of, nuclear weapons, the responses of Russia and China would be crucial to the chances of avoiding a more serious nuclear exchange. They might surmise, for example, that while the act of nuclear terrorism was especially heinous and demanded a strong response, the response simply had to remain below the nuclear threshold. It would be one thing for a non-state actor to have broken the nuclear use taboo, but an entirely different thing for a state actor, and indeed the leading state in the international system, to do so. If Russia and China felt sufficiently strongly about that prospect, there is then the question of what options would lie open to them to dissuade the United States from such action: and as has been seen over the last several decades, the central dissuader of the use of nuclear weapons by states has been the threat of nuclear retaliation.//
//If some readers find this simply too fanciful, and perhaps even offensive to contemplate, it may be informative to reverse the tables. Russia, which possesses an arsenal of thousands of nuclear warheads and that has been one of the two most important trustees of the non-use taboo, is subjected to an attack of nuclear terrorism. In response, Moscow places its nuclear forces very visibly on a higher state of alert and declares that it is considering the use of nuclear retaliation against the group and any of its state supporters. How would Washington view such a possibility? Would it really be keen to support Russia’s use of nuclear weapons, including outside Russia’s traditional sphere of influence? And if not, which seems quite plausible, what options would Washington have to communicate that displeasure?//
//If China had been the victim of the nuclear terrorism and seemed likely to retaliate in kind, would the United States and Russia be happy to sit back and let this occur? In the charged atmosphere immediately after a nuclear terrorist attack, how would the attacked country respond to pressure from other major nuclear powers not to respond in kind? The phrase “how dare they tell us what to do” immediately springs to mind. Some might even go so far as to interpret this concern as a tacit form of sympathy or support for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.//

//Army checks//
//Bandow 09- Senior Fellow @ Cato, former special assistant to Reagan (11/31/09, Doug, “Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924)//
//From Pakistan's perspective, limiting the war on almost any terms would be better than prosecuting it for years, even to "victory," whatever that would mean. In fact, the least likely outcome is a takeover by widely unpopular Pakistani militants. The Pakistan military is the nation's strongest institution; while the army might not be able to rule alone, it can prevent any other force from ruling. Indeed, Bennett Ramberg made the important point: "Pakistan, Iran and the former Soviet republics to the north have demonstrated a brutal capacity to suppress political violence to ensure survival. This suggests that even were Afghanistan to become a terrorist haven, the neighborhood can adapt and resist." The results might not be pretty, but the region would not descend into chaos. In contrast, warned Bacevich: "To risk the stability of that nuclear-armed state in the vain hope of salvaging Afghanistan would be a terrible mistake."//

//Pakistan is key//
//McNamara and Curtis 3/15/11 ( Lisa Curtis analyzes America's economic, security and political relationships with India, Pakistan, Afghanistan and other nations of South Asia as a senior research fellow at The Heritage Foundation. Sally McNamara is a Senior Policy Analyst in European Affairs at The Heritage Foundation’s Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom. “Afghanistan: Time for Political Strategy to Capitalize on Military Gains” http://thf_media.s3.amazonaws.com/2011/pdf/bg2530.pdf// Donnie) 
The fundamental question is whether the Taliban and al-Qaeda can be split apart after supporting each other on the battlefield for the past several years. The Taliban have benefited significantly from their relationship with al-Qaeda, receiving strategic direction and ideological inspiration, access to international financial networks, and recruits and training for suicide attacks inside Afghanistan.13 Some indications point to a Taliban leadership that has become so fused with al-Qaeda and its virulently anti-West, pan-Islamic ideology that it would be nearly impossible for the leadership to break those ties without losing its raison d’être.14 Other analysts argue, however, that the Taliban and al-Qaeda have differing goals and ideologies and that friction exists between them.15 Officials within Pakistan’s military and InterServices Intelligence (ISI) agency likely understand better than anyone else how to break apart the Taliban–Haqqani–al-Qaeda nexus. ISI has had close relationships with members of these groups for three decades and likely has a well-developed understanding of the dynamics among the organizations and the strengths and weaknesses of each of the groups’ leaders. As Secretary Clinton noted on February 18, “For reconciliation to succeed, Pakistan will have to be part of the process. It will have to respect Afghan sovereignty and work with Afghanistan to improve regional stability.”16 

NO offense son—stable Pakistan has much hubris 
Ganguly 10 (Sumit Ganguly, a professor of Political Science at Indiana University, Bloomington is currently a Distinguished Visiting Fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses in New Delhi. http://the-diplomat.com/2010/09/14/does-india-want-a-stable-pakistan/ //Donnie)//
//Indeed, far from alleviating Indo-Pakistani tensions, such a stable but military-dominated state would be more prone to undertaking risky ventures against India, and would also likely be tempted to resort to asymmetric warfare, given India’s greater conventional military capabilities. In effect then, such a stable, secure and prosperous state could turn out to be quite hubristic and could even conclude that it was in a position to unravel India’s troubled social fabric, to hobble its steady economic growth and to stultify its basic democratic ethos through small-scale but constant provocations. Such a state, far from being at peace with itself and its neighbors, could easily prove to be inimical to the prospects of regional and even global security.//

//Empirics prove an unstable Pakistan is safer—peace is impossible//
//Sanghviis 9 (Vir Sanghviis an Indian print and television journalist, columnist, and talk show host “A weakened Pakistan is often the best guarantor of peace” http://www.virsanghvi.com/vir-world-ArticleDetail.aspx?ID=266// Donnie) 
Consumed as we are with the hurly-burly of the General Election, we may have lost sight of an important development in our neighbourhood. As the Pakistan government tries to persuade the Taliban to retreat from its latest encampment a mere 100 kilometers away from Islamabad, the world – and Washington, in particular – has finally come around to the view that Pakistan is on the brink of becoming the next Afghanistan. As the steady slide into Talibanisation continues, it is also clear that we are at a watershed moment in our policy towards Pakistan. We need to decide, once and for all, how we are going to treat our north-western neighbour. There have been two broad strands in India’s attitude to Pakistan. The first is the view of much of the media, many liberals, and a large chunk of the political establishment. This view has as its basis the proposition: “A strong and stable Pakistan is in India’s best interests.” And how does India help bring this about? Well, according to proponents of this view, we must extend support to the democratic process in Pakistan and help civilian governments. We should encourage people to people contacts and abandon the Pakistan-is-an-enemy rhetoric. We must recognize that Indians and Pakistanis are really the same people, divided by unscrupulous politicians. The contrary view is the position of the army, the intelligence establishment and many security analysts. This view states that a strong and stable Pakistan is not necessarily in India’s best interests. A weakened Pakistan is often the best guarantor of peace. For instance, after the 1971 defeat, when Bangladesh broke away, Pakistan did India no harm for nearly two decades. According to this view, we should never let our guard down, put no faith in the so-called brotherliness of the Pakistani masses, distrust every civilian politician and recognize that the Pakistan army’s raison d’etre is the alleged threat from India. Proponents of this view say that the only language the Pakistani establishment understands is strength and the best way to check the threat posed by Pakistan is by running clandestine operation inside that country and financing such local trouble-makers as the Baluchis and the MQM. Of the two views, the first one has held sway for many years. The security establishment is treated with scorn by many educated Indians and its hawkish views are dismissed with contempt. During his brief stint as Prime Minister, Inder Gujral even asked R&AW to roll up its clandestine networks within Pakistan, one reason why Indian intelligence now finds it so difficult to get accurate information out of that country. But with the current situation in Pakistan threatening to spin out of control, this might be a good time to stop and think about our policy in the future. My own view is that the “strong and stable Pakistan is in India’s best interests” proposition has failed. Over the last several years, we have done everything we can to help Pakistan. We have hosted General Musharraf, we have offered talks on Kashmir, we have supported civilian politicians and welcomed Asif Zardari with open arms. We have tried out hardest to understand the mindset of civil society with a steady stream of Pakistani intellectuals arriving in India and each evening, our channels offer endless TV time to Pakistanis to tell us what their country’s position is. Here’s what this policy has got us: General Musharraf is still blatantly hostile to India as his last rant at the India Today conclave demonstrated. Asif Zardari has refused to help in the investigation of the Bombay attacks. Terrorists continue to be sent across the border to foment trouble in India. Far from following a liberal policy, the new civilian government has done deals with the Taliban and imposed the medieval Sharia law on parts of Pakistan. All opinion polls suggest that the average Pakistani hates India, loves Osama Bin Laden and believes that 9/11 was a Jewish plot to malign global Islam. Worse still, the evidence suggests that if you push the Pakistani masses about their true identity they would pick Muslim over Pakistani. Do you have to be a genius to see that the good neighbour policy has been an utter and complete disaster? Is it not time to concede that General Musharraf’s attitude is symptomatic of the view of the Pakistan army: India is the enemy and must always be fought? Shouldn’t we accept that Pakistan’s civilian politicians are such untrustworthy sleazeballs that they make Mayawati shine like a goddess in comparison? Even if a crook like Zardari is sincere (which I doubt; his ultimate loyalty is to Credit Suisse) he simply does not have the clout to deliver on the kind of peace and love nonsense that he gushed at the HT Summit. More worrying is that Pakistan’s civil society seems to have only the most minimal commitment to the liberal values that we in India enshrine in our Constitution. Even someone like Imran Khan, who improved his mind at Oxford and developed his loins on Sloane Street, turns into a reactionary when he addresses his own people, going so far as to praise Sharia law. What Indians find shocking is the extent to which so many educated Pakistanis seem unable to divorce their Islamic identity from political discourse. You and I can get up and say that Hindu fanatics are thugs and goons or even that Narendra Modi is a mass murderer. How many Pakistanis get up and say that about their own fanatics? We speak up for M.F. Husain’s right to paint Hindu goddesses in the nude. How many Pakistanis speak up for the Danish cartoonist? As for people to people contacts, I am still in favour of letting Pakistanis come to India to see what a liberal society looks like. But I have given up all hope that it will make a difference to the general Pakistani mind-set. After all, if you are dealing with a country whose people have bought Al-Qaeda propaganda about how all terrorism is really an American and Israeli plot, a people who are content to live off the Yankee dollar while simultaneously hating the United States, and a people who venerate the suicide bombers that Bin Laden dispatches around the world, then do you really believe that they will suddenly see the light when they land in Bombay and discover that our three biggest stars are all Muslim? It’s gone too far for people to people contacts to make much difference. So, what do we do? I think we should accept that the intelligence establishment may have had a point. We should resume clandestine operations, we should do to the Pakistanis what they are doing to us, and hit back every time we are attacked. We should tell the United States that we are tired of this policy of equivalence. When America attacked Afghanistan, we did not treat the US and Afghanistan as moral equals. Similarly, America should stop treating India and Pakistan on the same plane. One of us is the world’s largest democracy. And the other is a terrorist state. But if we are to ensure that the world sees through Pakistan’s pretensions and recognizes it for what it is, then we must first rid ourselves of our own illusions. Let’s stop kidding ourselves about the true nature of the enemy. Let’s recognize the magnitude of the threat – growing by the day as Taliban influence spreads – and work out a strategy to fight it.
==China Dedev== 
Chinese growth is unsustainable
—overinvestment will cause an inflationary boom collapsing the economy soon after 2013 
Roubini 4/14/11 (Nouriel Roubini is Chairman of Roubini Global Economics (www.roubini.com), professor of Economics at the Stern School of Business at NYU and co-author of Crisis Economics, whose paperback edition is forthcoming this month. “China’s Bad Growth Bet” http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/roubini37/English //Donnie)//
//I recently took two trips to China just as the government launched its 12th Five-Year Plan to rebalance the country’s long-term growth model. My visits deepened my view that there is a potentially destabilizing contradiction between China’s short- and medium-term economic performance. China’s economy is overheating now, but, over time, its current overinvestment will prove deflationary both domestically and globally. Once increasing fixed investment becomes impossible – most likely after 2013 – China is poised for a sharp slowdown. Instead of focusing on securing a soft landing today, Chinese policymakers should be worrying about the brick wall that economic growth may hit in the second half of the quinquennium. Despite the rhetoric of the new Five-Year Plan – which, like the previous one, aims to increase the share of consumption in GDP – the path of least resistance is the status quo. The new plan’s details reveal continued reliance on investment, including public housing, to support growth, rather than faster currency appreciation, substantial fiscal transfers to households, taxation and/or privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), liberalization of the household registration (hukou) system, or an easing of financial repression. China has grown for the last few decades on the back of export-led industrialization and a weak currency, which have resulted in high corporate and household savings rates and reliance on net exports and fixed investment (infrastructure, real estate, and industrial capacity for import-competing and export sectors). When net exports collapsed in 2008-2009 from 11% of GDP to 5%, China’s leader reacted by further increasing the fixed-investment share of GDP from 42% to 47%. Thus, China did not suffer a severe recession – as occurred in Japan, Germany, and elsewhere in emerging Asia in 2009 – only because fixed investment exploded. And the fixed-investment share of GDP has increased further in 2010-2011, to almost 50%. The problem, of course, is that no country can be productive enough to reinvest 50% of GDP in new capital stock without eventually facing immense overcapacity and a staggering non-performing loan problem. China is rife with overinvestment in physical capital, infrastructure, and property. To a visitor, this is evident in sleek but empty airports and bullet trains (which will reduce the need for the 45 planned airports), highways to nowhere, thousands of colossal new central and provincial government buildings, ghost towns, and brand-new aluminum smelters kept closed to prevent global prices from plunging. Commercial and high-end residential investment has been excessive, automobile capacity has outstripped even the recent surge in sales, and overcapacity in steel, cement, and other manufacturing sectors is increasing further. In the short run, the investment boom will fuel inflation, owing to the highly resource-intensive character of growth. But overcapacity will lead inevitably to serious deflationary pressures, starting with the manufacturing and real-estate sectors. Eventually, most likely after 2013, China will suffer a hard landing. All historical episodes of excessive investment – including East Asia in the 1990’s – have ended with a financial crisis and/or a long period of slow growth. To avoid this fate, China needs to save less, reduce fixed investment, cut net exports as a share of GDP, and boost the share of consumption. The trouble is that the reasons the Chinese save so much and consume so little are structural. It will take two decades of reforms to change the incentive to overinvest. Traditional explanations for the high savings rate (lack of a social safety net, limited public services, aging of the population, underdevelopment of consumer finance, etc.) are only part of the puzzle. Chinese consumers do not have a greater propensity to save than Chinese in Hong Kong, Singapore, and Taiwan; they all save about 30% of disposable income. The big difference is that the share of China’s GDP going to the household sector is below 50%, leaving little for consumption. Several Chinese policies have led to a massive transfer of income from politically weak households to politically powerful companies. A weak currency reduces household purchasing power by making imports expensive, thereby protecting import-competing SOEs and boosting exporters’ profits. Low interest rates on deposits and low lending rates for firms and developers mean that the household sector’s massive savings receive negative rates of return, while the real cost of borrowing for SOEs is also negative. This creates a powerful incentive to overinvest and implies enormous redistribution from households to SOEs, most of which would be losing money if they had to borrow at market-equilibrium interest rates. Moreover, labor repression has caused wages to grow much more slowly than productivity.//

//China growth causes nuclear war//
//Zakaria 9 (Fareed Zakaria is editor of Newsweek International, overseeing all Newsweek's editions abroad. He writes a regular column for Newsweek, which also appears in Newsweek International and often The Washington Post. 12-1 http://newsweek.washingtonpost.com/postglobal/fareed_zakaria/2008/12/wanted_a_new_grand_strategy_1.html//Donnie)
Some have seized on the fact that emerging markets are slumping to argue that the era of Western dominance isn't over yet. But the rise of the non-Western world -- which began with Japan in the 1950s, then continued with the Asian tigers in the 1960s, China in the 1980s and India and Brazil in the 1990s -- is a broad and deep trend that is likely to endure.
For some countries, the current economic crisis could actually accelerate the process. For the past two decades, for example, China has grown at approximately 9 percent a year and the United States at 3 percent. For the next few years, American growth will likely be 1 percent and China's, by the most conservative estimates, 5 percent. So, China was growing three times as fast as the United States, but will now grow five times as fast, which only brings closer the date when the Chinese economy will equal in size that of the United States. Then contrast China's enormous surplus reserves to America's massive debt burden: the picture does not suggest a return to American unipolarity. The "rise of the rest," as I have termed it, is an economic phenomenon, but it has political, military and cultural consequences. In one month this past summer, India was willing to frontally defy the United States at the Doha trade talks, Russia attacked and occupied parts of Georgia, and China hosted the most spectacular and expensive Olympic Games in history (costing more than $40 billion). Ten years ago, not one of the three would have been powerful or confident enough to act as it did.
Even if their growth rates decline, these countries will not return quietly to the back of the bus. The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying aspects of the new international order--competition for resources like oil, food, commodities and water; climate change; continued terrorist threats; and demographic shifts. But the most significant point it makes is that these changes are taking place at every level and at great speed in the global system. Nations with differing political and economic systems are flourishing. Subnational groups, with varied and contradictory agendas, are on the rise. Technology is increasing the pace of change. Such ferment is usually a recipe for instability. Sudden shifts can trigger sudden actions -- terrorist attacks, secessionist outbreaks, nuclear brinksmanship.

No CCP good offense—growth causes rebellion 
Yao 10 ( Yang, is a Adjunct Professor of East Asian Studies B.S. of Geography, Beijing University, 1986 M.S. of Economics, Beijing University, 1989 Ph.D “The End of the Beijing Consensus” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/65947/the-end-of-the-beijing-consensus?page=show //Donnie)
More important, Beijing's ongoing efforts to promote GDP growth will inevitably result in infringements on people's economic and political rights. For example, arbitrary land acquisitions are still prevalent in some cities, the government closely monitors the Internet, labor unions are suppressed, and workers have to endure long hours and unsafe conditions. Chinese citizens will not remain silent in the face of these infringements, and their discontent will inevitably lead to periodic resistance. Before long, some form of explicit political transition that allows ordinary citizens to take part in the political process will be necessary. The reforms carried out over the last 30 years have mostly been responses to imminent crises. Popular resistance and economic imbalances are now moving China toward another major crisis. Strong and privileged interest groups and commercialized local governments are blocking equal distribution of the benefits of economic growth throughout society, thereby rendering futile the CCP's strategy of trading economic growth for people's consent to its absolute rule. 

==Ptx VS Greenhill BS== 

===1NC Shell=== 
**SKFTA will pass now- concerns are assuaged, all it needs is Obama’s commitment**
<span style="tab-stops: 45.0pt;">**Hawkins 4/****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">25</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, Illinois Farm Bueraeu, “Votes are there for FTAs”, http://www.ilfb.org/viewdocument.asp?did=20019&r=0.8193323 //Rufus)// </span></span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This week saw a flurry …appear to me it’s now.” </span>//

//**But Focus and political capital are key**//
//<span style="tab-stops: 45.0pt;">**McLarty and Cunningham 1/23** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mr. McLarty was chief of staff to President Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort. Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden. “Obama's Free Trade Opportunity” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954004576090290103169526.html?mod=googlenews_wsj </span></span>//Donnie) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Much has been ...to help quarterback the effort. </span>

**Powerful lobbies oppose the aff and there is bipartisan consensus against it—you drain hella capital**
<span style="tab-stops: 45.0pt;">**Feffer 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Tomgram: John Feffer, Can Japan Say No to Washington?” John Feffer is the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies and writes its regular World Beat column. http://www.tomdispatch.com/archive/175214/ //Donnie)// </span></span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not surprisingly, China's ... such a move necessary. </span>//


//**SKFTA is key to preventing North korea war and proliferation**//
//<span style="tab-stops: 45.0pt;">**Campbell 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(U.S. Department of State Remarks by Kurt M. Campbell Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs Senate Foreign Relations Committee “U.S. Policy Toward North Korea” http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/WO1103/S00103/us-policy-toward-north-korea.htm </span></span>//Donnie) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ROK's security is …improving inter-Korean relations. </span>

**Extinction**
<span style="tab-stops: 45.0pt;">**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even a limited nuclear …consideration from the international community. </span>


===1NR Uniqueness=== 
**Bundle means passage**
**Hagstrom 4/25** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jerry, Agweek, “Trade agreement moves forward”, http://www.agweek.com/event/article/id/18317/ //Rufus)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — In a … other trade goals. </span>//

//**EU pact means it will pass**//
//**WSJ 4/28** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“US-South Korea Free-Trade Pact Trails EU Agreement” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704463804576290353479710080.html?mod=googlenews_wsj </span>//Donnie) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A European Union free-… vote on the EU pact. </span>

**Locke’s delegation and Biggest issues resolved means bipartisan support**
**Channel News Asia 4/28** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“US hails S. Korea trade pact as "win-win" deal”, http://www.channelnewsasia.com/stories/afp_asiapacific_business/view/1125441/1/.html // jb] </span>

==Senkaku DA VS Greenhill BS== 
**The tsunami means relations will remain solid—but china is still being belligerent towards the islands**
**Green 4/9** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(MICHAEL J. GREEN is Associate Professor of International Relations at Georgetown University and Senior Adviser and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. He served as Director and then Senior Director for Asian Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council staff from 2001 to 2005. “Tokyo's Turning Point” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67720/michael-j-green/tokyos-turning-point?page=show //Donnie)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Competent crisis management …condemned as insensitive given Japan’s current crisis  </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Plan leads to China taking Senkaku </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Jitsuro 10 (Terashima Jitsuro is the president of Tama University, as well as president of the Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute and chairman of the Japan Research Institute. “The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure, and the Future” http://japanfocus.org/-Terashima-Jitsuro/3398 </span>//Donnie) 
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This is Funabashi's argument: "US bases in … War international order. </span>

**That causes Sino-Japanese war**
**Han 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Dongping Han is Professor of History and Political Science at Warren Wilson College, NC. The opinions expressed are his own. “Disputes over Diaoyu Islands do Japan no good” http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2010-09/14/content_11300070.htm //Donnie) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> But the Chinese students from … them all and arrest them all? </span>

**Goes nuclear**
**Lim 05** **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">–</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Prof. IR at Nanzan U. in Japan(Robyn, Prof. IR – Nanzan U. in Japan, “Geostrategic Trends in Asia”, 1-6, http://www.icasinc.org/2005/2005l/2005lrxl.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> For example, the hubris on … as part of the equation.</span>

==1NC gender K VS greenhill BS== 
**Security discourse makes issues militarized—this shuns the view of the woman for securitized issues are ‘men’s business only’ –this culminates inevitable proliferation war and devastates vlife**
**Wilcox 3** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Lauren Wilcox, Macalester College Security Masculinity: The Gender-Security Nexus http://www.anselm.edu/NR/rdonlyres/584EAD25-FDAD-484B-AFA9-F8709DBB41FD/1242/Article20033.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This research paper explores … as the context for this paper. </span>

**This world view makes nuclear conflict and warfare inevitable-- Our Alternative is too vote negative to embrace feminist separatism**
**Weedon 1999** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Chris, the Chair of the Centre for Critical and Cultural Theory at Cardiff University, Feminism, theory, and the politics of difference, p. 90-93 </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the order of reason which …. (1994: 106; original 1989) </span>

==1NC Case args VS Greenhill BS== 

===Deterrence=== 
**The aff would lead to more kickouts—not less**
**Feffer 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(John Feffer is the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies and writes its regular World Beat column. “Pacific Pushback Has the U.S. Empire of Bases Reached Its High-Water Mark?” http://www.tomdispatch.com/blog/175214/tomgram:_john_feffer,_can_japan_say_no_to_washington //Donnie)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Wherever the U.S. military puts … tell in which direction the exit arrow is pointing. </span>//


//**No kickout in status quo—politics, economics, fear**//
//**Time 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Why Japan and the U.S. Can't Live Without Okinawa” http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,1994798,00.html </span>//Donnie) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japan's new Prime Minister, Naoto …its flagging economy. </span>

**Deterrence checks Chinese aggression in Taiwan**
**Ross 2** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert Prof of Political Science at Boston College Spring 2002, Project Muse ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The challenge for the United … with China and maintain the security of Taiwan. </span>

**China won’t start that war – US deters, not competent enough, and wouldn’t risk losing trade**
**Corson 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Trevor Corson, Writer on East Asia, The Atlantic Monthly, “Strait-jacket”, Volume 294, Issue 5, December, 2004, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2004/12/strait-jacket/3631/) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On some level, of course, … its economic growth. </span>

**No escalation**
**Godwin 2K**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prof Intl Affairs National War College, visiting Prof at Chinese National Defense University, 2k (Paul HB Washington Journal of Modern China. China's Defense Modernization: Aspirations and Capabilities http://www.ndu.edu/inss/symposia/pacific2000/godwinpaper.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although definitely a menacing capability… would seem to be assured.</span>

===Innovation=== 
**The project your internal link is about was canceled—most recent evidence**
**Asahi 1/3/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Japan-US missile project canceled” http://www.peopleforum.cn/viewthread.php?tid=58617 //Donnie)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A joint U.S.-Japan research … said another senior official in charge of the technical aspects of the project. </span>//
//**No risk of opop now – and all their evidence is based off flawed Malthusian logic – that is empirically false**//
//**LoBaido 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Anthony C. LoBaido; May 02, 2000; The overpopulation lie; http://www.wnd.com/?pageId=5695#ixzz1Jtnq3b5i </span>//AnthonyOgbuli] 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Malthus was wrong Thomas …at more than 225 million people. </span>

===Kan=== 
**Democracy doesn’t solve war**
**Rosato 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sebastian Rosato is Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Political Science, The University of Chicago, 5828 South University Avenue, Chicago, IL 60637 (srosato@uchicago.edu). “The Flawed Logic of Democratic Peace Theory” http://weber.ucsd.edu/~tkousser/Rosato%202003.pdf //Donnie)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Great Powers. Layne (1994) … that joint democracy enables democracies to remain at peace. </span>//

//**Regional cooperation will prevent escalation**//
//**Innocent and Carpenter, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)** </span>//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Additionally, regional stakeholders…but engaging stakeholders may lead to tighter regional security. </span>**//

//Pakistan state collapse is inevitable—the sooner is better because its key to check Chinese expansionism and stability//
//Verma 8 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bharat a former Cavalry Officer is Editor, Indian Defence Review, frequently appears on television as a commentator “Stable Pakistan not in India's interest” http://www.indiandefencereview.com/IDR-Updates/Stable-Pakistan-not-in-Indias-interest.html </span>**// **Adam)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many conveniently …Short-sighted politicians as usual are overlooking the national interest for the short-term personal gains of few votes! </span>**

China Rise causes Russia Conflict 
Japan Times 1/24/2010 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Japan's chance to exploit Russian suspicion of China, January issue of Sentaku, a monthly magazine covering Japanese political, economic and social issues. http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20110124a2.html] </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Military policy and maneuvers … out of a global development. </span>**

Sino Russian War leads to Extinction 
Sharavin 1 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Head of the Institute for Political and military analysis 2001, (Alexander Sharavin, head of the institute for political and military analysis, 10/1/2001 The Third Threat http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/5470.html) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia may face the "wonderful… and even against the first frost of a possible nuclear winter. </span>**

Trade does not solve war—there’s no correlation between trade and peace 
Martin, Mayer, and Thoenig 8 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Phillipe, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, and Centre for Economic Policy Research; Thierry MAYER, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, CEPII, and Centre for Economic Policy Research, Mathias THOENIG, University of Geneva and Paris School of Economics, The Review of Economic Studies 75) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Does globalization pacify … a period of lower prevalence of military conflicts, even taking into account the increase in the number of sovereign states. </span>**

Trade only pacifies some constituencies—it can’t solve in the countries with the biggest impacts 
Goldstone 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(P.R., PhD candidate in the Department of Political Science and a member of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is a non-resident research fellow at the Center for Peace and Security Studies, Georgetown University, AlterNet, September 25, http://www.alternet.org/audits/62848/?page=entire) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American policymakers should beware claims … it may prove no more than a placebo. </span>
==Round the Third== 
It was the Navy nationalism aff
In this debate we read 
T not navy 
SKFTA Good with a econ impact
The Gender K 
China Rise bad on case
Defense on the asia war adv

The Block division was as follows
2NC: Gender (extended a schmidt double turn...i can explain upon request)
China rise bad
defense on the other adv. 
1NR SKFTA
We went for skfta and case

thanks for reading! 
--donnie


==1NC T VS Edgemont JK== 


**1.) Japan is a country in East Asia**
**Encyclopædia Britannica. 2010**. (Encyclopædia Britannica Online. 8/24/10 http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/300531/Japan Colin) 
Island country, East Asia, western Pacific Ocean. 

**2.) A country is land**
**Merriam-Webster Dictionary, 10** (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/country) 
an indefinite usually extended expanse of land 

**3.)In means within space**
**Dictionary, 10** (http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/in// Colin) 
used to indicate inclusion within space, a place, or limits 


==1NC Ptx VS Edgemont JK== 

SKFTA will pass now- concerns are assuaged, all it needs is Obama’s commitment
Hawkins 4/25 <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(John, Illinois Farm Bueraeu, “Votes are there for FTAs”, http://www.ilfb.org/viewdocument.asp?did=20019&r=0.8193323 //Rufus)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This week saw a flurry of … it would appear to me it’s now.” </span>//

//But Focus and political capital are key//
//McLarty and Cunningham 1/23 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Mr. McLarty was chief of staff to President Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort. Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden. “Obama's Free Trade Opportunity” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954004576090290103169526.html?mod=googlenews_wsj </span>//Donnie) 
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Much has been written …—to help quarterback the effort. </span>

Powerful lobbies oppose the aff and there is bipartisan consensus against it—you drain hella capital
Feffer 10 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“Tomgram: John Feffer, Can Japan Say No to Washington?” John Feffer is the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies and writes its regular World Beat column. http://www.tomdispatch.com/archive/175214/ //Donnie)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Not surprisingly, China's …it deems such a move necessary. </span>//


//SKFTA is key to heg and the economy and East Asian stability//
//Bandow 2/28 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Doug is a senior fellow @ the Cato institute “U.S. Needs To Seriously Pursue A Free Trade Agenda” http://blogs.forbes.com/dougbandow/2011/02/28/u-s-needs-to-seriously-pursue-a-free-trade-agenda/ </span>//Donnie) 
Last year President Obama … America’s top military allies in Asia. 

Economic collapse cases Nuclear war 
Friedberg and Schenfeld, 8 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Aaron Friedberg-professor of politics and international relations at the Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel Schoenfeld-visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute, 10/21/2008, The Dangers of a Diminished America, The Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Then there are the dolorous …and geopolitical power. </span>


==1NC K VS Edgemont JK== 

Security discourse makes issues militarized—this shuns the view of the woman for securitized issues are ‘men’s business only’ –this culminates inevitable proliferation war and devastates vlife 
Wilcox 3 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Lauren Wilcox, Macalester College Security Masculinity: The Gender-Security Nexus http://www.anselm.edu/NR/rdonlyres/584EAD25-FDAD-484B-AFA9-F8709DBB41FD/1242/Article20033.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This research paper … the context for this paper. </span>

This world view makes nuclear conflict and warfare inevitable 
Our Alternative is too vote negative to embrace feminist separatism 
Weedon 1999 
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Chris, the Chair of the Centre for Critical and Cultural Theory at Cardiff University, Feminism, theory, and the politics of difference, p. 90-93) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the order of reason which … language can exist. (1994: 106; original 1989)</span>




==1NC Case VS Edgemont JK== 

===China=== 
Rise will be violent no mater what 
Mearsheimer 5 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(John, professor of political science at the University of Chicago and the author of The Tragedy of Great Power Politics “The Rise of China Will Not Be Peaceful at All” Nov. 18. http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/P0014.pdf//Donnie)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">THE question at hand is simple and profound: …an aspiring hegemon appears in Eurasia. </span>//

//Unchecked Chinese rise causes global nuclear war//
//Walton 7 – <span style="font-size: 7pt;">C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49 </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Obviously, it is of vital importance to … close great power alliances. </span>//

//No escalation//
//A. Economics//
//Ahari—<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ph.D. and Specialist in Great Power Relations—10 Ehsan Ahrari, Ph.D. is a specialist in great power relations and transnational security. His latest book on great power relations is entitled, The Great Powers and the Hegemon: Strategic Maneuvers. “China, the US and Clashing Aims” September 17. http://www.asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2701&Itemid=171 </span>//Donnie) 
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Two important questions …. and open for frequently recurring rapprochements. </span>

B. Trident Subs 
Godwin 2K<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Prof Intl Affairs National War College, visiting Prof at Chinese National Defense University, 2k (Paul HB Washington Journal of Modern China. China's Defense Modernization: Aspirations and Capabilities http://www.ndu.edu/inss/symposia/pacific2000/godwinpaper.htm) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although definitely a menacing … seem to be assured. </span>

They don’t know china, reject their predictions experts don’t know stuff 
Friedberg 5 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Aaron L. Friedberg is Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University. From June 2003 to June 2005, he served as Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs and Director of Policy Planning in the Ofªce of the Vice President. The views expressed here are his alone. “The Future of U.S.-China Relations” http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/is3002_pp007-045_friedberg.pdf //Donnie) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As far-reaching as its impact may be, … relations, the other distinctly pessimistic. </span>

===1NC Alliances=== 
Rise will be violent no mater what 
Mearsheimer 5 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(John, professor of political science at the University of Chicago and the author of The Tragedy of Great Power Politics “The Rise of China Will Not Be Peaceful at All” Nov. 18. http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/P0014.pdf//Donnie)// </span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">THE question at hand is simple and profound: …an aspiring hegemon appears in Eurasia. </span>//

//Unchecked Chinese rise causes global nuclear war//
//Walton 7 – <span style="font-size: 7pt;">C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49 </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Obviously, it is of vital importance to … close great power alliances. </span>//

//No escalation//
//A. Economics//
//Ahari—<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ph.D. and Specialist in Great Power Relations—10 Ehsan Ahrari, Ph.D. is a specialist in great power relations and transnational security. His latest book on great power relations is entitled, The Great Powers and the Hegemon: Strategic Maneuvers. “China, the US and Clashing Aims” September 17. http://www.asiasentinel.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=2701&Itemid=171 </span>//Donnie) 
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Two important questions …. and open for frequently recurring rapprochements. </span>

B. Trident Subs 
Godwin 2K<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Prof Intl Affairs National War College, visiting Prof at Chinese National Defense University, 2k (Paul HB Washington Journal of Modern China. China's Defense Modernization: Aspirations and Capabilities http://www.ndu.edu/inss/symposia/pacific2000/godwinpaper.htm) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although definitely a menacing … seem to be assured. </span>

They don’t know china, reject their predictions experts don’t know stuff 
Friedberg 5 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Aaron L. Friedberg is Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University. From June 2003 to June 2005, he served as Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs and Director of Policy Planning in the Ofªce of the Vice President. The views expressed here are his alone. “The Future of U.S.-China Relations” http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/is3002_pp007-045_friedberg.pdf //Donnie) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As far-reaching as its impact may be, … relations, the other distinctly pessimistic. </span>


==2NC China Rise Bad== 

China rise is violent no matter what
Alt causes 
A. transition from communism to fascism 
B. US debt 
Frisch 05 Research Ed/geopolitical analyst for HSL(Itntl. investment,economic, geopolitical newsletter) (Gordon, Commentary on Global Issues, 3/5 http://www.jrnyquist.com/frisch_2005_0621.htm) 
The continent of Asia …borrowed from PACOM.  
C. Security competition 
Mearshimer 5 (John, prof of IR and pol sci @ U of Chicago “Clash of the Titans,” Foreign Policy, http://www.ou.edu/uschina/texts/BrzezinskiMearsheimer2005ClashTitans.pdf//Donnie//
//China cannot rise …contain China’s power.//
//China Rise causes Russia Conflict//
//Japan Times 1/24/2010 [Japan's chance to exploit Russian suspicion of China, January issue of Sentaku, a monthly magazine covering Japanese political, economic and social issues. http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20110124a2.html]//
//Military policy and …of a global development.//
//Sino Russian War leads to Extinction//
//Sharavin 1 Head of the Institute for Political and military analysis 2001, (Alexander Sharavin, head of the institute for political and military analysis, 10/1/2001 The Third Threat http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/5470.html)//
//Russia may face …a possible nuclear winter.//

//China relations are not zero-sum—issues are compartmentalized//
//Friedberg 5 (Aaron L. Friedberg is Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University. From June 2003 to June 2005, he served as Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs and Director of Policy Planning in the Ofªce of the Vice President. The views expressed here are his alone. “The Future of U.S.-China Relations” http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/is3002_pp007-045_friedberg.pdf// Donnie) 
Fortunately, a number …great power politics. 



==Round the Octo's== 
We went for the gender k (about time) 
the 1NC was 
SKFTA (econ !, pc IL)
Gender
LeMar CP ( see below) 
==LeMar CP 1NC/2NC Cites== 
The United States Congress should pass legislation that mandates <aff>. The President of the United States should veto this law. The Congress should override this veto with a two-thirds vote. The President should nullify the veto, refusing to enforce it on the grounds that he is the Commander in Chief and thus does has soul control over the military. The Congress should sue the president by means of the United States Supreme Court on the precedent that the war powers act makes the Presidents action unconstitutional. 

The counterplan is competitive 

It leads to your aff—it doesn’t do it, and it is not immediate 

Additionally, your plan has to be done by the executive
Yoo 7 (“Power of the Purse Is Enough” John Yoo is a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley and a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. http://www.aei.org/article/25882 //Donnie)//
//Common sense does … speed, secrecy, and force//

//This is a solvency advocate—the Courts rule for Congress which leads to your aff, it also is crucial to restore Congressional war powers// 
//LeMar 3 (ANDREW D., is a J.D. Candidate, 2003, Indiana University School of Law—Bloomington; B.A., 2000,//
//Indiana University. “War Powers: What Are They Good for?†: Congressional Disapproval of the President’s Military Actions and the Merits of a Congressional Suit Against the President” http://www.law.indiana.edu/ilj/volumes/v78/no3/lemar.pdf// Donnie) 
Campbell seemed to …military actions favorably. 


North Korea and Iran war 
Howell and Pevehouse 7 (William G. Howell and Jon C. Pevehouse are Associate Professors at the Harris School of Public Policy at the University of Chicago and the authors of While Dangers Gather: Congressional Checks on Presidential War Powers. “When Congress Stops Wars” http://www.realclearpolitics.com/printpage/?url=http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/09/when_congress_stops_wars.html// Donnie) 
With the nation … been greatly exaggerated. 

Invasion of Iran causes global war 
Akleh 6 (Dr. Elias Akleh is an Arab writer of Palestinian descent, born in the town of Beit-Jala. War on Iran
Unleashing Armageddon in the Middle East http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article15564.htm //Donnie) 
Attacking Iran will disrupt oil traffic … nothing to stop it.


===Perm ANZ=== 

The cp is distinct from the affirmative—they mandate a change while we mandate a process that results in change, this distinction is grounded in the lit
Claudle 9 – Texas A&M University (Sharon L., “National Security Strategies: Security from What, for Whom, and by What Means,” Journal of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, 6(1) Article 22, Galileo)
Third, it is unclear …departmental independence.

This is severance—multiple pieces of definition support, this is a voting issue because severance perms make it impossible to get neg ground, they always shift their advocacy. 
A. Resolved means firm 
Free Dictionary 10 (http://www.thefreedictionary.com/resolved //Donnie)//
//1. To make a firm decision about.//

//B. Should means duty// 
//Free Dictionary 10 (http://www.thefreedictionary.com/should// Donnie)
Used to express obligation or duty

C. Substantial means foreva 
Free Dictionary 10 (http://www.thefreedictionary.com/substantially //Donnie)//
//4. Ample; sustaining: a substantial breakfast.//

//D. Reduce means permanent//
//Reynolds, 59 – Judge (In the Matter of Doris A. Montesani, Petitioner, v. Arthur Levitt, as Comptroller of the State of New York, et al., Respondents [NO NUMBER IN ORIGINAL] Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division, Third Department 9 A.D.2d 51; 189 N.Y.S.2d 695; 1959 N.Y. App. Div. LEXIS 7391 August 13, 1959)//
//Section 83's counterpart with regard to nondisability pensioners, section 84, prescribes a reduction only if the pensioner should again take a public job. The disability pensioner is penalized if he takes any type of employment. The reason for the difference, of course, is that in one case the only reason pension benefits are available is because the pensioner is considered incapable of gainful employment, while in the other he has fully completed his "tour" and is considered as having earned his reward with almost no strings attached. It would be manifestly unfair to the ordinary retiree to accord the disability retiree the benefits of the System to which they both belong when the latter is otherwise capable of earning a living and had not fulfilled his service obligation. If it were to be held that withholdings under section 83 were payable whenever the pensioner died or stopped his other employment the whole purpose of the provision would be defeated, i.e., the System might just as well have continued payments during the other employment since it must later pay it anyway. [***13] The section says "reduced", does not say that monthly payments shall be temporarily suspended; it says that the pension itself shall be reduced. The plain dictionary meaning of the word is to diminish, lower or degrade. The word "reduce" seems adequately to indicate permanency.//

//And, ASPEC, there is No USFG—its three branches, they have to specify which one they use, doing so in the 2ac is to late the 1NC lost pre round prep and it’s the key speech for the whole debate// 
//Blacks Law Dictionary 1990 (P. 695)// 
//In government and all its the United States, government consists of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches in addition to the administrative agencies. In a broader sense, includes the federal agencies and bureaus, state and country governments, and city and township governments.//

//Voting issue, it kills negative ground like politics da’s and process cp’s//
//This also means you don’t solve your aff// 
//Russell 2 (Russell, Gregory D is Associate Professor of Political Science and Public Administration at California State University “Implementing restorative justice by "groping along": A case study in program evolutionary implementation” http://www.allbusiness.com/legal/3502335-1.html// Donnie) 
Researchers articulating the top-down perspective …models could be employed. 


===2NC Impact=== 

First, we control the only internal link to escalation—wars cant be justified absent strong prez powers, even if you think there is a solvency deficit to the CP you vote neg because none of their wars happen
Forrester 89 [Ray, Professor, @ Hastings College of the Law, University of California, Former dean of the law
schools at Vanderbilt, Tulane, and Cornell, “Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem” George Washington Law Review, August, 57 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1636, Lexis]
A basic theory--if not … of the President. 


Second, we have the quickest timeframe, prez powers are about to become irreversibly strong 
Simmons 11/22 (senior software architect “The Rise of Unchecked Presidential Power” http://www.americanthinker.com/2010/11/the_rise_of_unchecked_presiden.html//Donnie)
Never in the history …work in earnest.

Middle east war outweighs on probability 
Primakov 9 (Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry – Russian Federation, Member – Russian Academy of Science, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, Russia in Global Affairs, 3, July/September, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/number/n_13593)
The Middle East conflict …rule out such a possibility.

Violations of SOP cause adventurism and nuclear war 
Martin Redish, Law Professor, Northwestern, 1991 (DUKE LAW JOURNAL, December, pp. 472-4) 
Thus, the costs imposed …"I told you so." 



==1NR gender K cards== 

===Framework=== 

<span style="layout-grid-mode: line;">their mode of problem solving fails because it divides social life into discrete dimensions which prevents uncovering of roots of social issues  </span>
<span style="layout-grid-mode: line;">Tickner 3 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J. Ann Tickner, IR Prof @ University of Southern California SOME FEMINIST ANSWERS TO IR’S METHODOLOGICAL QUESTIONS http://www.hks.harvard.edu/wappp/research/working/bc_tickner.pdf/Donnie) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christine Chin’s text examines … __changing them__ (Chin, 1998:5). </span>

serial policy failure
Sjoberg 2k <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Laura Sjoberg “TOWARDS A FEMINIST THEORY OF SANCTIONS” [[http://www.laurasjoberg.com/BA.pdf]] //Donnie </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first principle of …experience of //male-ness// and //womynhood//. </span>



===Deterrence Links=== 

It links
Repo 6 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jemima Repo University of Helsinki Department of Political Science “GENDERING THE MILITARISATION OF THE WAR ON TERRORISM: Discourses and Representations of Masculinities and Femininities” [[https://helda.helsinki.fi/bitstream/handle/10138/18289/genderin.pdf?sequence=2]] //Donnie)  </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">War and violence are accepted as natural … that help men fulfil these roles. </span>

Their claims are not grounded in reality  
Repo 6 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jemima Repo University of Helsinki Department of Political Science “GENDERING THE MILITARISATION OF THE WAR ON TERRORISM: Discourses and Representations of Masculinities and Femininities” [[https://helda.helsinki.fi/bitstream/handle/10138/18289/genderin.pdf?sequence=2]] //Donnie)  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cori Dauber provides a … nature of messages, power and agency.</span>

===Free Trade Link=== 

Free trade causes patriarchy—working women are subjugated for men to profit 
Ruiz 4 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tricia Ruiz “Feminist Theory and International Relations: The Feminist Challenge to Realism and Liberalism” [[http://honors.csustan.edu/journals/Soundings/Ruiz.pdf]].
__Feminist critiques of liberalism …__ equate with the goal of achieving real gender equality. </span>



===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hegemony Link</span>=== 

Quests for heg and construction of a realist framework look to the state as the only actor—this ignores the feminine and causes patriarchy 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ruiz 4 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Tricia Ruiz “Feminist Theory and International Relations: The Feminist Challenge to Realism and Liberalism” [[http://honors.csustan.edu/journals/Soundings/Ruiz.pdf]].
__Another feminist critique of realism …__ promote the economic and civil interests of the individual</span>

===Patriarchy causes war=== 
Failure to change the current patriarchal discourse makes nuclear holocausts inevitable. 
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Reardon, UN consultant and human rights education author 93</span></span><span class="cite"> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">(Betty, a, “Women and Peace- Feminist Visions of Global Secunty”, p. 30-31)  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In an article entitled "Naming the Cultural Forces …<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">for standing armies to be used</span></span>. (Spretnak 1983) </span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]