[[toc]]
If you have any questions feel free to email us any aff questions email Adele at [[mailto:amwatkins13@blakeschool.org|amwatkins13@blakeschool.org]] for any neg questions email me at hannah.s.stafford@gmail.com.
=Affirmative= 
==WFIRST 1AC -- Greenhill== 
===Observation 1: Failure=== 
**WFIRST has no funding**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Science News 2011 (Janet Raloff, Staff writer, Science News, March 12, <span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/69896/title/2012_budget_offers_pain_and_gain_for_R%2BD</span>) rss</span>


<span style="font-size: 80%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"As many astronomers</span>...expansion of the universe."</span>

<span style="font-size: 15px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Astro2010 report proves – WFIRST is the best mechanism to study dark energy</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">S<span style="font-size: 90%;">mith 2010( Marcia, President of the Space and Technology Policy Group, 8-13-2010, “Understanding Dark Energy, Finding Earth-like Planets Top Priorities Says NRC's Astro2010 Study,” Space Policy Online. (<span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1074:understanding-dark-energy-finding-earth-like-planets-top-priorities-says-nrcs-astro2010-study&catid=67:news&Itemid=27</span>)</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 90%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"The top priority for</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">other research in infrared wavelengths."</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Thus the plan, we recommend the United States federal government construct and deploy a wide-field infrared survey telescope.** </span>

===Observation 2 -- Embrace Dark=== 
**Dark Matter research will challenge the age old metaphor of light and dark**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Wilberg 2009 (Acharya Peter, Indian spiritual teacher, written countless essays and published a variety of <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.amazon.com/gp/search/ref=sr_tc_2_0?rh=i:stripbooks,k:Peter+Wilberg&keywords=Peter+Wilberg&ie=UTF8&qid=1298377780&sr=1-2-ent&field-contributor_id=B0034NUHQM|books]]</span> on themes ranging from science and religion to medicine and psychiatry, politics and economics, psychoanalysis and psychotherapy, 'DARK MATTER' AS AN OCCULT THREAT TO THE FOUNDATIONS OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE , <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thenewyoga.org/dark_matter.pdf|www.thenewyoga.org/dark_matter.pdf]]</span> ) rss</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 13px;">"Nowhere does the __//...//mystery of ‘dark' matter."__</span>


**Debate is a communication activity and metaphors are critical to our language. They are also useful in representing otherness and alien concepts and disrupt the signifier/signified relationship.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Travis – Professor of English @ Dartmouth - 1997 (Peter W., “Chaucer's Heliotropes and the Poetics of Metaphor,” Speculum vol. 72 no. 2, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">"These heliotropic flowers-like...</span><span style="font-size: 80%;">and fraught with (dis)similitudes."</span>

**The Dark-Light metaphor enters into all aspects of our lives—without our knowing we are always surrounded by this dichotomy**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">McGarrity 2004 (Andrew, Lecturer in South Asian and Indo-Tibetan Studies, The University of Syndey, <span class="wiki_link_ext">http://escholarship.usyd.edu.au/journals/index.php/SSR/article/viewFile/198/177</span> , Sydney Studies in Religion, “D arkness and Paradox as the Beginning and End of Understanding” ) rss</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Metaphors of light...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">source of the manifest</span>"</span>

**The linguistic genealogy of “light” is racist—“lightness” is a metaphor for whiteness and moral purity**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Berthold 2010 [Ph.D. in Philosophy at the University of Oregon] (Dana, “Tidy Whiteness: A Genealogy of Race, Purity, and Hygiene,” Ethics & the Environment, Volume 15, Number 1, Spring, pp. 1-26. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span class="wiki_link_ext">http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v015/15.1.berthold.html</span></span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"The linguistic genealogy...justify it as a caste system."</span>


**Contemporary understandings of light are inseparable from their roots in racialized thinking**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Berthold 2010 [Ph.D. in Philosophy at the University of Oregon] (Dana, “Tidy Whiteness: A Genealogy of Race, Purity, and Hygiene,” Ethics & the Environment, Volume 15, Number 1, Spring, pp. 1-26. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span class="wiki_link_ext">http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v015/15.1.berthold.html</span></span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">"<span style="font-size: 80%;">Consider one more</span></span><span style="font-size: 80%;">...exclusion of racialized peoples."</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">**In order to challenge the racist methodology of these terms we must reject their use in each and every instance—exploring dark matter is a first step**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Shahadah 5** (African Cultural Historian and Filmmaker ; “Linguistics for a New African Reality” Cheikh Anta Diop Conference)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"We must not walk...</span>__-- cultural emancipation__."</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px;">**No concessions—We cannot accept any degree of racism. It makes injustice and violence inevitable. You have an affirmative obligation to act in the face of racism – solvency is not an issue**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Memmi 2K** (Albert, , Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris, Racism, University of Minnesota Press, translated by Steve Martinot, p. 163)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"The struggle against...</span>to the racist challenge.__"</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**The only way to address the exclusion caused by identifying different groups of people is through a critical pedagogy to prevent dehumanization, which outweighs all other impacts.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Keating ’95** (AnnLouise Keating, associate professor of English and Director of Composition at Eastern New Mexico University, “Interrogating "Whiteness," (De)Constructing "Race"” College English, Vol. 57, No. 8. (Dec., 1995), pp. 901-918. http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0010 0994%28199512%2957%3A8%3C901%3AI%22%28%22%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Q // wfi kh)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"My title reflects...dominant/subordinate worldview.</span>__"</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Dehumanization can overwhelm norms**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Vaughn P. **Shannon,** Political Scientist, Ohio State University, 19**99** (INTERNATIONAL STUDIES QUARTERLY, June, p. 293 Norms Are What States Make of Them: The Political Psychology of Norm Violation) (MHHARV2225)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">"I<span style="font-size: 80%;">mages linked to threats...</span></span><span style="font-size: 80%;">Rwanda to Kosovo."</span>


**Dehumanization causes genocide, slavery, exploitation, and all other forms of oppression**
Katheryn <span style="font-size: 16px;">Katz</span>, Professor of Law, 19<span style="font-size: 16px;">97</span>**,** "The Clonal Child: Procreative Liberty and Asexual Reproduction," Lexis-Nexis

<span style="font-size: 80%;"><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"It is undeniable</span>..<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">poverty and misery of others.</span>"</span>

===<span style="font-size: 80%;">Observation 3 Science -- Embrace the Unknown </span>=== 
**Our concept of the universe was wrong – as it turns out “dark” energy and matter may provide the ultimate Copernican revolution!**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Panek, 2007<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (Richard, Faculty, Goddard College, March 11, New York Times, <span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/11/magazine/11dark.t.html</span>) rss</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 80%;">"But as Smoot and...We’re completely irrelevant.”</span>

**This discovery changes everything we know**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Urry,2007 (<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> Meg, Professor of Physics at Yale, 5-27-</span>**2007**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, “The Secrets of Dark Energy,” Parade Magazine. (<span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.parade.com/articles/editions/2007/edition_05-27-2007/Dark_Energy</span>) rss</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"The discovery of...physics could lead to?"</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**WFIRST is the only cost effective way to critically question and explore science like no other program has been able to** </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">NASA 6/29 [NASA, 6/29/11, “About WFIRST”, http://wfirst.gsfc.nasa.gov/about/] AW</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">"The NWNH report...for a space mission."</span>


**Rejecting scientific dogmatism is key in an academic setting to allow for new democratic ways of knowing**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Feyerabend 75** (Paul, prof of philosophy @ UC Berkeley, [www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm] AD: 6-25-11, jam)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 80%;">"The way towards...</span><span style="font-size: 80%;">**__be__** considerably **__increased__**."</span>


**We need to debate and challenge science in order to democratize science by contesting expert knowledge in public discourse**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**McCormick 7** (Sabrina, Robert Wood Johnson Health & Society Scholar at the University of Pennsylvania, Social Studies of Science Vol. 37.4 August Pg. 610-612 JF)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"In order to make...</span>contestation and mobilization__**."</span>


===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Observation 4- Debate Framework</span>=== 
**Existential risk prioritization is analytically incoherent—it results in policy paralysis.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Meskill 9 (David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"Tom </span>Friedman's piece...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">time (just barely) to take action</span>"

**Predictions of //__potential wars__// in the //future// obscure the //__ongoing wars__// in the //status quo//—their impact relies on __a bankrupt ontology of war__.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Chris J. Cuomo, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, 1996 (“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” //Hypatia//, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Complete, p. 30-31)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"Philosophical attention...</span>solutions for social problems"</span>

**Representations of “war” as an isolated event __ensure widespread violence__.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Chris J. Cuomo, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, 1996 (“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” //Hypatia//, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Complete, p. 31-32)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Ethical approaches that...militaristic campaigns."</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Second—Discussion**</span>


**Discussion the method to solvency – The more individuals discuss the more they will change their actions ==**
**Speech is a key to action**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Susan Bickford, Associate Professor of Political Science, received her A.B. from Bryn Mawr College and her Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota, 1997, “Anti-Anti-Identity Politics: Feminism, Democracy, and the Complexities of Citizenship”, PK</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Central to this alternative One can reconstruct it in struggle" </span>


<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Debaters and this debate can spark change – intelligent discussion can be the tipping point for revolution**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Gladwell 2002** (Malcolm, staff writer The New Yorker). The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference, p. 259.</span>

"But if there is __.... it can be tipped."__


**If we want to transform the debate process then Debate should be used to energize political ideas and allow the debater to enact argumentative agency within our activity.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Mitchel</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">l, Gordon R., Fall 19**98** (Argumentation & Advocacy; Fall98, Vol. 35 Issue 2, p41, 20p</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">“Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate. </span><span class="wiki_link_ext">http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=1410839&site=ehost-live</span><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">)</span>

"In basic terms __... the world around them."__


<span style="font-size: 90%;">**The current model of debate as a laboratory where we have zero responsibility for what we say leads to a variety of argumentation forms that are not positive and certainly don’t help students become forces for positive change in the world. Mitchell continues……**</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">__"The sense of detachment__...drama of political life" (1991,p. 8)."</span>


==WFIRST 1ac - Bronx== 

===Observation 1 - Failure=== 


**WFIRST has no funding**
<span style="font-size: 90%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Science News 2011</span> (Janet Raloff, Staff writer, Science News, March 12, [[http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/69896/title/2012_budget_offers_pain_and_gain_for_R%2BD]]) rss</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">As many astronomers ... the expansion of the universe.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Astro2010 report proves – WFIRST is the best mechanism to study dark energy</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Smith 2010( Marcia, President of the Space and Technology Policy Group, 8-13-2010, “Understanding Dark Energy, Finding Earth-like Planets Top Priorities Says NRC's Astro2010 Study,” Space Policy Online. ([[http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1074:understanding-dark-energy-finding-earth-like-planets-top-priorities-says-nrcs-astro2010-study&catid=67:news&Itemid=27]])</span>

The top priority for mid-sized ... in infrared wavelengths.

===Plan Text=== 
**Thus, Adele and I recommend the United States federal government should construct and deploy a wide-field infrared survey telescope.**

===Observation 2) Embrace the Dark=== 

**Dark Matter research will challenge the age old metaphor of light and dark**
Wilberg 2009 (Acharya Peter, Indian spiritual teacher, written countless essays and published a variety of books on themes ranging from science and religion to medicine and psychiatry, politics and economics, psychoanalysis and psychotherapy, 'DARK MATTER' AS AN OCCULT THREAT TO THE FOUNDATIONS OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE , <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thenewyoga.org/dark_matter.pdf|www.thenewyoga.org/dark_matter.pdf]]</span> ) rss

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Nowhere does the //mythical ....// mystery of ‘dark' matter.</span>



**Metaphors are critical to our language. They are also useful in representing otherness and alien concepts and disrupt the signifier/signified relationship.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Travis – Professor of English @ Dartmouth - 1997 (Peter W., “Chaucer's Heliotropes and the Poetics of Metaphor,” Speculum vol. 72 no. 2, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">These heliotropic flowers-</span>.....fraught with (dis)similitudes.2</span>

**The Dark-Light metaphor enters into all aspects of our lives—without our knowing we are always surrounded by this dichotomy**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">McGarrity 2004 (Andrew, Lecturer in South Asian and Indo-Tibetan Studies, The University of Syndey, [[http://escholarship.usyd.edu.au/journals/index.php/SSR/article/viewFile/198/177]] , Sydney Studies in Religion, “D arkness and Paradox as the Beginning and End of Understanding” ) rss</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Metaphors of light ... source of the manifest.</span>


**The linguistic genealogy of “light” is racist—“lightness” is a metaphor for whiteness and moral purity**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Berthold 2010 [Ph.D. in Philosophy at the University of Oregon] (Dana, “Tidy Whiteness: A Genealogy of Race, Purity, and Hygiene,” Ethics & the Environment, Volume 15, Number 1, Spring, pp. 1-26. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v015/15.1.berthold.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The linguistic genealogy ... it as a caste system.</span>


**Contemporary understandings of light are inseparable from their roots in racialized thinking**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Berthold 2010 [Ph.D. in Philosophy at the University of Oregon] (Dana, “Tidy Whiteness: A Genealogy of Race, Purity, and Hygiene,” Ethics & the Environment, Volume 15, Number 1, Spring, pp. 1-26. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v015/15.1.berthold.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 70%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Consider one more ... </span>exclusion of racialized peoples.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px;">**The damage of the darkness is not limited to blacks, it extends to show itself in Orientalism forms of discrimination --** </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Pick, 2009** (Lucy, //<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Minion Pro';">Lucy K. Pick, Director of Undergraduate Studies, Senior Lecturer in the History of Christianity Divinity School, University of Chicago p.16, </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Helvetica;">Viewpoints Orientalism’s Wake: The Ongoing Politics of a Polemic, The Middle East Institute Washington, DC,No. 12, September 2009, </span>[[http://www.mei.edu/Portals/0/Publications/Orientalism.pdf|www.mei.edu/Portals/0/Publications/**Orientalism**.pdf]] ) rss</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Minion Pro'; font-size: 70%;">For Said, religion .... a “naturalized supernaturalism.”5</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px;">**In order to challenge the racist methodology of these terms we must reject their use in each and every instance—exploring dark matter is a first step**</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">**Shahadah 5** (African Cultural Historian and Filmmaker ; “Linguistics for a New African Reality” Cheikh Anta Diop Conference)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">We must not walk __....-- cultural emancipation__.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**No concessions—We cannot accept any degree of racism. It makes injustice and violence inevitable. You have an affirmative obligation to act in the face of racism – solvency is not an issue**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Memmi 2K** (Albert, , Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris, Racism, University of Minnesota Press, translated by Steve Martinot, p. 163)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__The struggle against__ __.... racist challenge.__</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Racism perpetuates dehumanization.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Feagin 2001**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">(Joe Feagin is the author of more than forty books, including Living with Racism and Racist America. He is currently graduate research professor of sociology at the University of Florida, //Racist America – Roots, Current Realities, and Future Reparations//, Routledge New York and London p. 20 http://books.google.com/books?id=XmxnLEtyQJAC&pg=PA20&dq=%22Dehumanization+is+systemic+racism+psychological%22+dynamic,+and+racialized+roles+are+its+social+masks&hl=en&ei=CUCUTpnHDKn50gGdu9CnBw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CC0Q6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22Dehumanization%20is%20systemic%20racism%20psychological%22%20dynamic%2C%20and%20racialized%20roles%20are%20its%20social%20masks&f=false) RSS</span>
<span style="font-size: 9px;">The alienation of oppression __....its spatial manifestations.39__</span>



<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Dehumanization can overwhelm norms**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Vaughn P. **Shannon,** Political Scientist, Ohio State University, 19**99** (INTERNATIONAL STUDIES QUARTERLY, June, p. 293 Norms Are What States Make of Them: The Political Psychology of Norm Violation) (MHHARV2225)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Images linked to .... persist from Rwanda to Kosovo.</span>

**Dehumanization causes genocide, slavery, exploitation, and all other forms of oppression**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Katheryn Katz, Professor of Law, 1997**,** "The Clonal Child: Procreative Liberty and Asexual Reproduction," Lexis-Nexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">It is undeniable ....misery of others.</span>




===Obervation 3) Critical Pedagogy=== 

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**The question here for us to consider is how can we improve the debate process and the education coming from debate? Critical Pedagoy is the key to valuable education in debate, there is no the process of debate can serve no higher value…**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Fassett and Warren 2007 (Deanna L. Fassett, San Jose University, John T. Warren Southern Illionois University,Carbondale. Critical Communication Pedagogy, Sage Publications, 26-27) sjb</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__But what is critical__ __.... journey, not a destination.__</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;"> **We will offer several strands of thought, any of which can justify an affirmative ballot…..**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**First—Focus should be on structural issues**</span>

**Existential risk prioritization is analytically incoherent—it results in policy paralysis.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Meskill 9 (David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Tom Friedman's piece .... (just barely) to take action.</span>


**Predictions of //__potential wars__// in the //future// obscure the //__ongoing wars__// in the //status quo//—their impact relies on __a bankrupt ontology of war__.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Chris J. Cuomo, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, 1996 (“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” //Hypatia//, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Complete, p. 30-31)</span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Philosophical attention to <span class="Cards">....for social problems</span>.</span>
**Representations of “war” as an isolated event __ensure widespread violence__.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Chris J. Cuomo, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, 1996 (“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” //Hypatia//, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Complete, p. 31-32)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Ethical approaches that .... state-funded militaristic campaigns.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**The negative focus on war damages our ability to deal with issues of structural violence**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Martin, 1982 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Brian Martin, PhD in theoretical physics, associate professor in Science, Technology and Society at the University of Wollongong, “ Critique of nuclear extinction”Published in Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, 1982, pp. 287-300.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 9px;">Nuclear war is ... problems needing attention.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Second—Focus on discussions existing within the debate realm**</span>
**Discussion the method to solvency – The more individuals discuss the more they will change their actions ==**
**Speech is a prerequisite to action**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Susan Bickford, Associate Professor of Political Science, received her A.B. from Bryn Mawr College and her Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota, 1997, “Anti-Anti-Identity Politics: Feminism, Democracy, and the Complexities of Citizenship”,</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Central to this ...reconstruct it in struggle"</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px;">**The impact of the audience in this room is what is critical!!! Our change in argumentation will promote a change in the audience.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Cohen 01<span style="color: #000000;"> [Daniel H. Cohen, </span>Colby College, B.A., 1975, Indiana University, Ph.D., 1983, Professor of Philosophy, Colby College, 2001, “Arguments and Metaphors”, p. 339-340] AW</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__Arguments-as-performances__ __.... little effect.__</span>


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Debaters and this debate can spark change – intelligent discussion can be the tipping point for revolution**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Gladwell 2002** (Malcolm, staff writer The New Yorker). The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference, p. 259.</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">But if there is difficulty __.... it can be tipped.__</span>


**Places of education, like this debate round, are the starting points for change, specifically critical pedagogy is key here.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Kuswa and Briann 2008 (“Arguing War in an Era of Terrorism: “Democracy to Come” and Critical Pedagogy” Kevin Kuswa and Briann Walsh. Kevin has a MA and PhD is Communication, Rhetoric, and cultural studies from The University of Texas at Austin. Briann was an advanced grad student that wrote the article with Kuswa. Controversia: An International Journal of Debate and Democratic. Volume 5 No. 2, 2008, page 101) hss</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">While a view of education .... problem is resolved (Freire, 1990).</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**The current model of debate as a laboratory where we have zero responsibility for what we say leads to a variety of argumentation forms that are not positive and certainly don’t help students become forces for positive change in the world.** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Mitchel</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">l, Gordon R., Fall 19**98** (Argumentation & Advocacy; Fall98, Vol. 35 Issue 2, p41, 20p</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">“Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate. </span>[[http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=1410839&site=ehost-live]]<span style="font-family: Times;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9px;">While an isolated ... of political life" (1991, p. 8).</span>



**Critical pedagogy creates more acceptance of diversity.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Kuswa and Briann 2008 (“Arguing War in an Era of Terrorism: “Democracy to Come” and Critical Pedagogy” Kevin Kuswa and Briann Walsh. Kevin has a MA and PhD is Communication, Rhetoric, and cultural studies from The University of Texas at Austin. Briann was an advanced grad student that wrote the article with Kuswa. Controversia: An International Journal of Debate and Democratic. Volume 5 No. 2, 2008, page 102-103) hss</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__The goal is critical space____....__of terrorism and democracy.</span>

==WFIRST 1AC - Glenbrooks== 
The 1ac is the same as Bronx but new plan is :
**Thus, the United States federal government should construct and deploy a wide-field infrared survey telescope**.

And we added 4 cards to the bottom of advantage 3 (critical pedagogy)


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Conflict rare--Cooperation with other countries is much more likely than competition**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;"> **Deudney and Ikenberry 09** [Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb</span>]

<span style="font-size: 70%;"> This bleak outlook... liberal international order. </span>



**Nuclear war won’t cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 90%;"> **Martin ’84** (Brian, Research Associate – Australian National University, SANA Update, “Extinction Politics”, No. 16, May, [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;"> Yet in spite of the ...speculative at present.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**The only way to address the exclusion caused by identifying different groups of people is through a critical pedagogy to prevent dehumanization, which outweighs all other impacts.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Keating ’95** (AnnLouise Keating, associate professor of English and Director of Composition at Eastern New Mexico University, “Interrogating "Whiteness," (De)Constructing "Race"” College English, Vol. 57, No. 8. (Dec., 1995), pp. 901-918. http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0010 0994%28199512%2957%3A8%3C901%3AI%22%28%22%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Q // wfi kh)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__My title reflects several__ __.... dominant/subordinate worldview.__</span>



<span style="font-size: 14px;">**WFIRST is the only cost effective way to critically question and explore science like no other program has been able to** </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">NASA 6/29 [NASA, 6/29/11, “About WFIRST”, http://wfirst.gsfc.nasa.gov/about/] AW</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The NWNH report ... a space mission."</span>


=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===China Condition CP=== 
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Text: The United States federal government should (insert plan) if and only if the Chinese government agrees to negotiate a Code of Conduct for acceptable space practices with the United States.** </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">**AND**</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">**China will say yes but - now is crucial – China is concerned about future efforts by the US to militarize space – the combination of the counterplan’s CONDITION is key to solving - the plan alone triggers a global space arms race that causes extinction and turns the case.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Zhang Hui , 2006 is a research associate at the Project on Managing the Atom of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. His research includes nuclear arms control verifica- tion techniques, the control of fissile material, nuclear terrorism, nuclear safeguards, nonproliferation and space, , “Space Weaponization And Space Security: A Chinese Perspective”, PDF, KENTUCKY</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">//Due to the threatening nature// //... only be counter-productive.”//</span>

===Consult the JCS CP=== 
**The United States federal government should initiate binding consultation with United States military leaders including, at least, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Combatant Commanders, and relevant generals and admirals, over whether the United States should**
**(Insert plan)**

**The United States federal government should advocate the adoption of the proposed mandates, and should implement the results of the consultation.**
**The military will accept if the administration negotiates---otherwise it’ll backlash**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Hooker 4 - Colonel Richard D. Hooker, Jr., Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in international relations and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, served in the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Winter 2004, “Soldiers of the State: Reconsidering American Civil-Military Relations,” Parameters, p. 4-18</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"More current is <span class="citenon-bold">...of the political leadership."</span></span>


**The link can only go one way-THE SINGLE BIGGEST LINK to destroying CMR is not consulting-even if there are other alt causes-not consulting uniquely destroys it**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Ackerman 08 – National Security Correspondent, [Spencer, 11/13/08, Productive Obama-Military Relationship Possible, The Washington Independent. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span class="wiki_link_ext">http://washingtonindependent.com/18335/productive-obama-military-relationship-possible</span></span>]</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Another challenge for //....nation has forgotten.”//</span>
**Collapse of CMR causes global conflict-turns the alliance advantage**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Cohen, 1997 [Prof @ Paul H. Nitze school of advanced international studies, Orbis April 18, ’97, “Civil-military relations- are US forces overstreched?” science direct]</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Left uncorrected, the ....be taken for granted."</span>


**Optional Politics Net-Ben**
**1. Failure to genuinely consult the military causes massive political backlash**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Hooker 4 - Colonel Richard D. Hooker, Jr., Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in international relations and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, served in the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Winter 2004, “Soldiers of the State: Reconsidering American Civil-Military Relations,” Parameters, p. 4-18</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">"To be sure,... civil-military relationship."</span>

===<span style="font-size: 80%;">Should Pic </span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">TEXT: You write the affirmatives plan text just without the word “should” use the word “I recommend” or “we recommend” or we use ought. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">“Should” and “I recommend” is functionally the same - use of the world “should” invokes universal ethical claims this A. turns case B. Guts solvency - Forcing meta level choices causes policy inaction. </span>**

Greene, 02 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joshua David Greene, currently an Assistant Professor of Psychology at Harvard University. “THE TERRIBLE, HORRIBLE, NO GOOD, VERY BAD TRUTH ABOUT MORALITY AND WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT.” Dissertation presented to Princeton University in candidacy for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. November 2002. [[http://www.wjh.harvard.edu/%7Ejgreene/GreeneWJH/Greene-Dissertation.pdf|http://www.wjh.harvard.edu/~jgreene/GreeneWJH/Greene-Dissertation.pdf]]) </span>


<span style="font-size: 70%;">Given that moral realism ... willing to play along.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 13px;">The affirmatives approach to language causes large conflicts-only the counter plan can solve the affirmative. </span>**

Greene, 02 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joshua David Greene, currently an Assistant Professor of Psychology at Harvard University. “THE TERRIBLE, HORRIBLE, NO GOOD, VERY BAD TRUTH ABOUT MORALITY AND WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT.” Dissertation presented to Princeton University in candidacy for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. November 2002. [[http://www.wjh.harvard.edu/%7Ejgreene/GreeneWJH/Greene-Dissertation.pdf|http://www.wjh.harvard.edu/~jgreene/GreeneWJH/Greene-Dissertation.pdf]]) </span>


<span style="font-size: 70%;">In this essay <span class="citenon-bold">... global social problems.</span></span>

===China CP (international CP)=== 

**Text: The People’s Republic of China should (do the plan)**


**Observation 1 – Competitiveness - The Counterplan competes legitimately by challenging the use of the United States – a major part of the resolution – it competes via net benefits**


**Observation 2: Solvency**

**China’s new space program has all the capabilities the US does and will be successful – Resources and Tech prove**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Gabriele **Garibaldi**, Writer for Global Politician in East Asian News, **05** [Chinese Threat to American Leadership in Space, Global Politician, May 9th, http://globalpolitician.com/2699-china-america]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The rise of China ... US Department of Defense.</span>

===Consult the Legal Advisors=== 

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Consult the Office of the Legal Advisor on the international law implications of (the plan)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">The affirmative will only be implemented if the Office of the Legal Advisor indicates the policy is acceptable under international law. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Must Consult “L” from the beginning of the policy – this also independently answers any perm argument</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Sueldo 2011(Alejandro, <span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times;">U.C. Berkeley School of Law, J.D. Candidate, 2013. REVIEWING MICHAEL P. SCHARF & PAUL R. WILLIAMS, SHAPING FOREIGN POLICY IN TIMES OF CRISIS: THE ROLE OF INTERNATIONAL LAW AND THE STATE DEPARTMENT LEGAL ADVISER. Berkley Journal of International Law, Vol. 29, </span>p. 742 ) rss</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times;">The participants and </span>... decision-making process.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">International law must be strengthened to avoid extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">R.A. Mullerson 89, Head, Department of International Law, Institute of State and Law of the Academy of Sciences, THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL LAW, July 1989, p. 494</span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;">In spite of different ....influential groups.</span>

====New 1nc impact==== 
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Enhancing international law is key to preventing an Arctic Conflict </span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Berkman and Young**, April **2009** (Paul - head of the Arctic Ocean Geopolitics Programme at the Scott Polar Research Institute, and Oran - professor of institutional and international governance at the Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, Governance and environmental change in the Arctic Ocean, Science 17, p. 339-340)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__Intermediate__ __regulatory arrangements____..... to peaceful uses.__</span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Arctic competition escalates to nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Staples, 8/10/2009** (Steven - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The fact is, __**...of nuclear weapons**.”__</span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;"> </span>
===Hardening PIC=== 
**Text: We do the whole plan except satellite hardening**

<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Turn – Hardening undermines Redundancy – cost trade offs**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">**Lewis 2005** - Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program [James A. Lewis. November 1, 2005. House Armed Service Committee, Panel on Asymmetric and Unconventional Threats Center for Strategic and International Studies. http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:Cr-YrlZ_4YJ:csis.org/files/media/csis/congress /ts051101_lewis.pdf+hardening+satellites&hl=en&gl=us&pid= bl&srcid=ADGEES jqa8YKzjyP3GZoZvlk1KzXGHAwK2bzuk03clno4BciLnY3pLmf12TN75rlMuAJFzw3E5JmOGq lWin0d1Ldf9UWz9NEeduREpcsvzljHCJIJUjNEHfpnuem7nvvZ7gEdyHm4&sig=AHIEtbT9LZ1I2M32TCFG4GFWgdeaoiEjEQ. Accessed June 21]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 70%;">Hardening involves making .... of the question.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Hardening and maneuverability cannot solve – they only have a minimal impact on satellite vulnerability</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**MacDonald 8**</span>—**former assistant director for national security at the White House__.__** [Bruce W. MacDonald, September 2008, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security”, Council on Foreign Relations, Council Special Report No. 38, [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]], accessed 7-12-11]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The United States and .... the next two decades.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Redundancy is key to space security – hardening undermines it</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**<span style="color: #000000;">Lewis 2005 - D</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">**i**rector and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program [James A. Lewis. November 1, 2005. House Armed Service Committee, Panel on Asymmetric and Unconventional Threats Center for Strategic and International Studies. </span>[[http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:Cr-YrlZ_4YJ:csis.org/files/media/csis/congress%20/ts051101_lewis.pdf+hardening+satellites&hl=en&gl=us&pid=%20bl&srcid=ADGEES%20jqa8YKzjyP3GZoZvlk1KzXGHAwK2bzuk03clno4BciLnY3pLmf12TN75rlMuAJFzw3E5JmOGq%20lWin0d1Ldf9UWz9NEeduREpcsvzljHCJIJUjNEHfpnuem7nvvZ7gEdyHm4&sig=AHIEtbT9LZ1I2M32TCFG4GFWgdeaoiEjEQ|http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:Cr-YrlZ_4YJ:csis.org/files/media/csis/congress /ts051101_lewis.pdf+hardening+satellites&hl=en&gl=us&pid= bl&srcid=ADGEES jqa8YKzjyP3GZoZvlk1KzXGHAwK2bzuk03clno4BciLnY3pLmf12TN75rlMuAJFzw3E5JmOGq lWin0d1Ldf9UWz9NEeduREpcsvzljHCJIJUjNEHfpnuem7nvvZ7gEdyHm4&sig=AHIEtbT9LZ1I2M32TCFG4GFWgdeaoiEjEQ]]<span style="color: #000000;">. Accessed June 21]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The need to mitigate__....... a potential attacker____.__</span>



**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Hardening ignites arms race</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Walsh 2007 - Georgetown University Law Center** [Frank M. Associate, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, LLP Journal of Air Law and Commerce “forging a diplomatic shield for american satellites: the case for reevaluating the 2006 national space policy in light of a chinese anti-satellite system” Fall, 7/12/11, Lexis] </span>

<span style="font-size: 9px;">"Hardening" Satellites and.... and less risky path</span>



<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Space Weaponization Causes Accidents and first use** </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Mitchell et al, 1** -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space ....conflict ever seen.</span>__</span>

==Kritiks== 
===Fem IR=== 
**A. The discourse of the 1AC relies on a masculine and securitized paradigm. The gendered assumption built into exploration and development policies ensure insecurity and patriarchy.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Griffin 9 (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"The discursive deployment .... as, perhaps, 'bounty hunters' (2004: 10)." </span>
**B. <span style="color: #000000;">Feminism comes first—breaking down the denigration of the feminine is critical to eliminate oppression of embodied minorities</span>**
**Peterson 4**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (associate professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Arizona (Feminist Theories Within, Invisible To, and Beyond IR, Winter/Spring 2004) </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.watsoninstitute.org/bjwa/archive/10.2/Feminist%20Theory/Peterson.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,) AK</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"><span style="color: #000000;">"Womens Studies, Comparative</span>__<span style="color: #000000;">... denigration of the feminine</span>__<span style="color: #000000;">."</span></span>

**C. Alternative -- It’s not enough to add womyn and stir – Our alternative is to reject the affirmative and to look at IR under a feminist lens.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Laura Sjoberg, assistant prof of political science @ University of Florida, 2008, "The Norm of Tradition: Gender Subordination and Women's Exclusion in International Relations”, p. 177-178.</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"If what is “traditional”<span class="Cards">... in which we live”</span> (1999, 37)."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Your ballot must be used as a question: if the plan is ontologically justifiable? Failure to question the ontology of our policies results in genocide against the left – only the K questions the absolute truth that allows for total war – turns the aff</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Karsten </span>Friis,<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, </span>2k<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” </span><span style="color: #001ee6; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"><span class="wiki_link_ext">http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">"The problem with societal </span>... is never questioned."</span>


===<span style="font-size: 80%;">Norm K </span>=== 

**1) Links: There is no reason to vote affirmative: they cannot articulate any linkage between their prescriptions and practical, worldly effects**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Schlag 90, professor of law@ univ. colorado, 1990 (pierre, stanford law review, november, page lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"In fact, normative legal ... advice into effect."</span>

**Roleplaying as the USFG only trains us to become servants to the bureaucracy and makes us cognitively defenseless against the logic of institutions**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Schlag 91 (PIERRE, COLORADO LAW PROF. 139 U. PA. L. REV.801, APRIL)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"The problem for us...<span class="citenon-bold"> bureaucratic logic of institutions."</span></span>

**Solvency Turn: Focus on imaginary “solutions” disempowers the individual and ignores the personal element of the harms, preventing concrete localized change**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Kappeler 95, associate prof. at al-akhawayn university [susanne, the will to violence: the politics of personal behavior, pg. 10-11]</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Which is why many of.... of war and violence."</span>

**External Impact: Normative bureaucracy populates the world with subjects who think they’re empowered Cartesian egos but who are in fact shills of the bureaucratic control whose essential meaning is the infliction of pain and death**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Schlag 90 professor of law@ univ. colorado, (pierre, stanford law review, november, page lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"All of this can seem<span class="citenon-bold"> ... academic and otherwise."</span></span>

**Fiat is issusary we should not debate it as such-The affirmatives problem solving theory is uniquely wrong and bad, the causes that they isolate are wrong and justify military interventions the impact is unending war**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Alex BELLAMY Peace and Conflict Studies @ Queensland AND Paul WILLIAMS Visiting Int’l Affairs @ GW ‘5 “Introduction: Thinking Anew about Peace Operations” in Peace Operations and Global Order p</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"The second set of ....<span class="citenon-bold"> relationships between th</span>em’"</span>


===Social justice K=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14px;">The plan’s prioritizing of future in space trades off with the need for focus on social injustice in the status quo</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Bould 11 (Mark Bould, Senior Lecturer in Film Studies at the University of the West of England, Professor at the Institiute of Advanced Studies, Co-Editor of <span class="wiki_link_ext">__Science Fiction Film and Television Journal__</span>, Consultant editor of <span class="wiki_link_ext">//Sc//__ience Fiction Studies__</span>, Advisory editor of <span class="wiki_link_ext">__The Horror Journal: The International Journal of Horror Studies__</span>, Associate editor of <span class="wiki_link_ext">__Historical Materialism: Research in Critical Marxist Theory__</span>, “The Ships Landed Long Ago: Afrofuturism and Black SF”, 2011, <span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.jstor.org/stable/4241520</span>, 171-172)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">"From the 1950s onwards ... desegregation of Little Rock (1957)."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Invisible violence against disposable population is the largest proximal cause of war and genocide</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois (Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn) 4</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">(Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22) </span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"This large and at first .... feelings of victimization)."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Alternative: Reject the affirmative in order to break the chains of white reality, the first step necessary is to acknowledge its inherent existence. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Bould 07 <span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">(</span>Mark Bould, Senior Lecturer in Film Studies at the University of the West of England, Professor at the Institiute of Advanced Studies Founding, Co-Editor of <span class="wiki_link_ext">__Science Fiction Film and Television Journal__</span>, Consultant editor of <span class="wiki_link_ext">//Sc//__ience Fiction Studies__</span>, Advisory editor of <span class="wiki_link_ext">__The Horror Journal: The International Journal of Horror Studies__</span>, Associate editor of <span class="wiki_link_ext">__Historical Materialism: Research in Critical Marxist Theory__</span>, "Come Alive by Saying No: An Introduction to Black Power SF," Science Fiction Studies, Vol 34, No 2, page 227-228)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">Th"eir plan, however,.... chains of white reality."</span>
===Death K=== 
**1. Interpretation – the affirmative must justify debating about death**
**2. The Affirmative’s introduction of death into the debate socializes it as to neutralize life into nothing but numbers – this is the justification for all forms of violence**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Jean Baudrillard, Dartmouth BM Hack, ‘93 (Symbolic Exchange and Death trans Iain Grant, 162-3, 173-5, “manpower” is left deliberately in)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">"More importantly, that .... social input and output?"</span>
**3. This is a gate way argument – we will not cross apply arguments to other flows**

====**2NC card for st marx**==== 
**Each death is unique and has a story – their focus solely on numbers is what allows for the worst forms of violence in the real world, and allows for actual death to occur, because we do not learn the human aspect to each. View this argument through a topicality argument – whoever provides the best framework should win the debate. Here is evidence – the most real world education is avoiding death debates – the aff spills over and allows death in the real world.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Austin Kutscher, President of the Foundation of Thanatology and Professor – Columbia University, ‘80 (Death & Existence, p. Foreward)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">//"Within the educational setting////... collectively and individually."//</span>


===Toaism K=== 

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth—**</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Kirkland, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, 2001</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">(Russell, “'Responsible Non-Action' in a Natural World: Perspectives from the Neiye, Zhuangzi, and Daode jing,” Daoism and Ecology: Ways within a Cosmic Landscape, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 60%;">In the Taoist classic Huai-nan-tzu, ....//simply accepting//the new state of things.’"</span>


<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Take no action to achieve desired ends—**</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Kirkland, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, 1996</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">(Russell, “The Book of the Way,” //Great Literature of the Eastern World//, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-size: 70%;">"Specifically, the Tao is humble, ... its unceasing operation."</span>

==Disads== 
===Econ DA=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Economy will stabilize in squo – maintaining current policy of deficit reduction is key</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">PAUL WISEMAN, author for the Associated Press, August 23, 2011, “Double-dip recession is unlikely, economists say”, <span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.stltoday.com/business/local/article_f7808d9d-f3a2-5cb5-8b85-f88bfd2ca5b3.html</span> , KENTUCKY</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">//"Another recession isn't// //...Americans won't notice."//</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">The plan costs a TON and is PERCIEVED as EXTREMLT costly – gets rolled back in a bad economy </span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">O'Neill 12/12/08 (Ian, Universe Today, “What About the Space Exploration Crisis? NASA Budget Could be Cut to Save Money” <span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.universetoday.com/22271/what-about-the-space-exploration-crisis-nasa-budget-could-be-cut-to-save-money/</span>) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"There’s no denying</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ... at serious risk."</span>//

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">First downgrade was a message – failure to cut policies that are un-necessary and cut our deficits second downgrade is inevitable – that triggers a stock sell off – total economic collapse </span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Adam Gefvert , author for seekingalpha, leading economic cite, August 6, 2011, “S&P Downgrade a Warning, But Nothing Serious Yet”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span class="wiki_link_ext">http://seekingalpha.com/article/285353-s-p-downgrade-a-warning-but-nothing-serious-yet</span></span> , KENTUCKY</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Standard & Poor's has ... good at compromising."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Econ collapse causes WWIII</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Sean O'Donnell, B.A. in History from the University of Maryland. He is a Squad Leader in the Marine Corps Reserve and is currently a graduate student at the University of Baltimore studying law and ethics, Baltimore Republican Examiner, February 26, 2009, “Will this recession lead to World War III?”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.examiner.com/republican-in-baltimore/will-this-recession-lead-to-world-war-iii</span></span>, KENTUCKY</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Could //the current// //...// //history repeats itself."//</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">The longer and worse our deficit spending is the FASTER and MORE PROBABLE heg and econ collapse is – causes nuclear war </span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Zalmay Khalilzad, was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, February 8, 2011, “The Economy and National Security”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"><span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1</span></span> , KENTUCKY</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">"Today, //economic and////...// hegemony and aggression."</span>

===China Soft Power=== 

**First, China expanding its global influence -- engaged in a zero-sum competition**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Jakarta Post, 2011, (Feb. 2, 2011 <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2011/02/02/soft-power-learning-china%27s-charms.html|http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2011/02/02/soft-power-learning-china’s-charms.html]]</span> Soft power: Learning from China’s charms)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">In the wake of the **__.... expand its influence.__** </span>


**And, China U.S. space policy is zero-sum---advances threatens the security of the other**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Blair et. al 06**-Bruce G. Blair is the president of the World Security Institute, a nonprofit organization that he founded in 2000 to promote independent research and journalism on global affairs. He is an executive producer of Countdown to Zero, a documentary film on nuclear weapons, which was released in 2010. He also created and was the executive producer of the PBS weekly television series Superpower: Global Affairs Television, “China’s space ambitions,” 2006, http://www.wsichina.org/attach/china_security2.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Out of this ... Moon-Mars Initiative.</span>


**And, Chinese soft power prevents Taiwan independence**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Gill and Huang 06</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 90%;">-Bates Gill, expert on Chinese foreign policy and the current director of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, and Yanzhong Huang**,** Senior Fellow for Global Health and the Council on Foreign Relations, 06</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Survival, "Sources and limits of Chinese 'soft power'", June 2006, http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a747985000&fulltext=713240928</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"A most intriguing example</span>.... the new American century"</span>


**And, China-Taiwan war goes nuclear—MAD doesn’t apply**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Solomone, 06</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Stacey, Ph.D. in Futures Studies at the University of Hawaii, “China's Space Program: the great leap upward,” Journal of Contemporary China, </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"First, the PLA is .... at China’s disposal."</span>

===Earth Science Trade-off=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Plan forces spending trade-offs that crush effective Earth sciences --- risks catastrophic climate change</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Haymet 7 (Tony, Director of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography – University of California, San Diego, Mark Abbott, Dean of the College of Oceanic and Atmospheric Science – Oregon State University, and Jim Luyten, Acting Director – Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, “The Planet NASA Needs to Explore”, Washington Post, 5-10, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve|http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/05/09/AR2007050902451.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Decades ago, a .... our own planet.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Ineffective NASA Earth sciences risk multiple threats of extinction**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Killeen 5 (Timothy L., Director – National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science”, CQ Congressional Testimony, 4-28, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The first example is .... simultaneous multiple stresses.</span>

===Payroll Tax DA (ptx)=== 
<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Payroll tax cuts will pass – Obama pushing**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">WSJ 11/10 [WSJ, 11-10-2011 [[http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2011/11/10/white-house-to-push-to-extend-payroll-tax-cut/]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__The White House__ __....__ administration official said.</span>


**WE READ A PLAN KILLS PC (CHANGES EVERY ROUND/AFF)**


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**PC is key to passage**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**PI 9/8** [Philadelphia Inquirer, 9-8-2011, “Don’t expect miracles on job growth,” [[http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-tax]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The fundamental problem ... privatize Social Security. </span>


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Key to averting a double dip**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Washington Post 9/8** [Washington Post, 9-8-11, p. http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/just-how-effective-is-the-payroll-tax-cut/2011/09/08/gIQAodirCK_blog.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">President Obama is __... **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">avert</span>** **further degradation**__. </span>


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Double dip ensures economic collapse**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**CNN 8/10** [CNN Money, 8-10-11, p. http://money.cnn.com/2011/08/10/news/economy/double_dip_recession_economy/index.htm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Another recession **could****.... to counteract it****.** </span>


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Economic decline causes protectionism and war – their defense doesn’t assume accompanying shifts in global power.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Royal 10** – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Less intuitive is how __.....__ deserves more attention</span>

===Jackson-Vanik DA (ptx)=== 
<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Jackson-Vanik will be repealed now – political capital is key to ensure passage**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Sayenko 11/11** [Sergei Sayenko, Nov 11, 2011, “Obama urges Congress to cancel Jackson-Vanik”, Moskow Times, http://english.ruvr.ru/2011/11/11/60236896.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The U.S. President __.... end of the current year.__</span>


**WE READ A PLAN KILLS PC (CHANGES EVERY ROUND/AFF)**


<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Capital is key**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Reuters ’11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Reuters, “Factbox: Unpopular Congress returns next week”, Aug 31, 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/08/31/us-usa-congress-factbox-idUSTRE77U71U20110831]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">RUSSIA TRADE __With...__ to freely emigrate.</span>



<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Jackson-Vanik destroys US-Russia relations – now is __especially crucial__**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Miller ’11** [Jacqueline McLaren Miller is a senior associate at the EastWest Institute, “The WTO and the Reset,” April 8, 2011, http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset]</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">It took Barack Obama**__....U.S.-Russia relationship__**__.__</span>



**<span style="font-size: 14px;">US/Russian relations prevent nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Elliott, 5/15/1995** (Michael, Why Russia Still Matters to America, Newsweek, p. lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">__"Russia__," says Deputy .... and the rest.</span>



<span style="font-size: 14px;">**US/Russian war causes extinction – most probable**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Bostrom ‘2** [Nick Bostrom, professor of philosophy - Oxford University, March, 2002, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 70%;">A much greater existential ....encounter in the 21st century.</span>


**WE ALSO SOMETIMES READ A WARMING IMPACT TO RUSSIA RELATIONS**


===Weaponization DA=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Space conflict not inevitable – nationalism doesn’t mean wishes for space dominance.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Moore 06** (Mike Moore, Senior Consultant at Sapient Government Services, Winter 2006, “A Debate About Weapons in Space: Against A New Cold War?” SAIS Review, Volume 26, Number 1, pg.179)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">National righteousness is ... space-based weapons.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 90%;">SPS is perceived as a space weapon – vulnerability will eventually lead to weaponization</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Virgiliu **Pop**, PhD Student, Law School, University of Glasgow, **2k**, “Security Implications of Non-Terrestrial Resource Exploitation,” 43rd Colloquium on the Law of Outer Space, 51st International Astronautical Congress, Rio de Janeiro, [[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/security_implications_of_non_terrestrial_resource_exploitation.shtml]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Abstract This paper analyses... or power plants"[42]. </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">**US space weaponization leads to Chinese miscalculation and space wars** </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Chase 3-25** (Michael S. Chase is an Associate Research Professor and Director of the Mahan Scholars Program at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island. “Defense and Deterrence in China’s Military Space Strategy” Publication: China Brief Volume: 11 Issue: 5. 3-25-2011 2011 01:22 [[http://www.jamestown.org/programs/chinabrief/single/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=37699&tx_ttnews%5BbackPid%5D=25&cHash=e3f0fcd233f563e2364ad7bc49425244]] )</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">A review of Chinese .... measures and deterrence.</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Nuclear war** </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**STRAITS TIMES**<span style="font-family: 'Times-Roman','serif';">, June 25, </span>**2000**<span style="font-family: 'Times-Roman','serif';">; Lexis</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">THE high-intensity scenario.... the Chinese press.</span>
==T/other procedural== 


===<span style="font-size: 80%;">//Development =/= making tech on the ground//</span>=== 
**A. Interpretation -**

**1. Space development is the production of devices, materials or systems**

<span style="font-size: 90%;">**U.S. OMB** 20**11** [Part II of Circular A-11 Section 84 on R&D U.S. Office of Management and Budget http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/assets/a11_current_year/s84.pdf]</span>


<span style="font-size: 80%;">__"Development is defined____...specific requirements__."</span>


**2. The mesosphere is at an altitude of 21 to 49 miles**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**EPA 10****–** Environmental protection agency (2010, “Atmosphere”, <span class="wiki_link_ext">http://www.epa.gov/apti/course422/ap1.html</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;"> "The first layer...up the upper atmosphere."</span>

**B. Violation – The devices are built on Earth and deployed to space**

**C. Voters for Fairness and Education**

**1. Limits – allowing the negative to build anything and put the object into space at a later time massively increases negative research burdens**

**2. Grammar – the resolution indicates space development must take place beyond the mesosphere, if it was supposed to be deployed later, the resolution could just say space development.**


===T- Humans only=== 
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Exploration is only human activity**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Mindell et al, 9 - Slava Gerovitch is a lecturer in the Department of Mathematics and the Program in Science, Technology, and Society at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. David A. Mindell is Dibner Professor of the History of Engineering and Manufacturing, Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and Director of the Program in Science, Technology, and Society at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Asif A. Siddiqi is Assistant Professor of History at Fordham University. “The Future of Human Spaceflight: Objectives and Policy Implications in a Global Context” published in 2009 carnegie.org/fileadmin/Media/Publications/PDF/spaceFuture.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">What, then, is .... those it encounters.”27</span>
**Vote neg:**
# **Limits – Human exploration is key to limiting down the topic to a core set of affs that involve human settlement**
# **Precision – our definition has intent to define and is rooted in government and scientific policy definitions.**

**Voter for fairness and education**

===**T- Substantial=1.2 Billion**=== 
<span style="font-size: 14px;">**Substantial is at least $1.2 billion**</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Alexander, 07** (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “NASA Mars Program Threatened by Senate Funding Bill,” July 3, 2007 from <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://planetary.org/news/2007/0703_NASA_Mars_Program_Threatened_by_Senate.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">The Senate billproposes .... request for 2008.</span>

**Vote Neg for limits – requiring a large increase in funding is necessary to exclude small affs that just do things like a project with no DA ground or lit.**


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]