[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tech Barriers to SPS have been resolved – all that remains is government inaction </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Edmonton Journal ‘11</span>
[[http://www.edmontonjournal.com/technology/Solar+satellites+green+energy/4933251/story.html]]
With gas prices ...In outer space.

Now is key SPS is inevitable, it’s only a question of who gets there first.
Shea ’10
[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]]
__The timing would__… space solar power?

SPS has immense international support – US development is a key route to soft power
NSSO ‘07
[[http://dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473860&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]
__The SBSP study__… a framework immediately.

SPS is key to international collaboration in space
Schwab ‘02
[[http://scholar.google.com/scholar?start=40&q=unilateral+solar+powered+sarellites&hl=en&as_sdt=o,30&as_ylo=2000]]
__If__ a non-integrated……..during his administration.26

SPS prompts international cooperation and scientific dialogue on development
Komberath '09
[[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5367831&tag=1//jchen]]
CONCLUSIONS in this.......develop suitable policy.

Independently, international space cooperation cements US leadership
CSIS '10
[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100430_berteau_commercial_space.pdf]]
__"New opportunities for__.....__stability, and democracy.__

Soft power prevents disease, terrorism and WMD
Nye '04
[[http://www.ksg.harvard.edu/news/opeds/2004/nye_soft_power_csm_042904.htm]]
__Soft power co-opts__......in foreign policy.

SPS solves water shortages - powers desalation plants
Smith and Cohn '09
[[http://www.energysmith.net/articles/spacepower.pdf]]
In addition to... __reality__, claims Sage.

Water wars go nuclear
Weiner '90
"The Next One Hundred Years" pg. 270
__If we do__... stockpiled since Trinity.

PLAN
__The USfg should fund and develope a SBSP system.__

The USfg key to aerospace competition - export controls and mergers have weakend the private sector
ICAF '07
[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA475093&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]
__The US__ government... __and technology development.__

Initial government funding is key to private industryinvestment - lowers financial risk
Daily Tech '07
[[http://www.dailytech.com/The+Pentagon+Wants+Space+Solar+Power+for+US+Allies/article9275.htm]]
The plan also... __of clean energy.__

No risk of space debris - SPS DE - orbits them
NASA '07
"Space Based Solar Power as an Oppertunity for Strategic Security" Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study
The technologyto...Star Wisp Concept.

Funding isn't enough - government R&D is key to successful SPS
Friedman '11
[[http://books.google.com/books?id=y5pITzPTw8YC&pg=PA235&dq=Space+based+solar+power&hl=en&ei=99cDTq3bHIfEgAfTypSODg&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=10&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=Space%20based%20based%20solar%20power&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=y5pITzPTw8YC&pg=PA235&dq=Space+based+solar+power&hl=en&ei=99cDTq3bHIfEgAfTypSODg&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=10&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=Space%20based%20based%20solar%20power&f=false]]
At the same... dreams quietly expressed.

No preceptionof military threat - existence of ICBMs make SPS an undesirable weapon
NSSO '07
[[http://nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/nsso.htm]]
__When first confronted__... an open enviroment.
Solar Power Satellites are sustainable, cheap, and technologically feasible
Lior '11
[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931]]
We have analyzed... sustainable energy sources.
=Negative= 
Space Debris DA-
# Uniqueness- Debris is at a tipping point – even one collision with space debris can set off a chain reaction, causing satellite malfunction.
Blake ’11
[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/Space-so-full-of-junk-that-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-earth.html]]
__The volume of__… International Space Station.

# Link- space missions cause dangerous space debris that damages satellites
Pasco ‘06
[[http://mail.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/pasco2006.pdf]]
__More than 9,000__ … __to debris production.__ 

# Internal link- working satellites are key to almost every aspect of maintaining hard power
Covault, 3-1-2011
[[http://www.militaryaerospace.com/index/display/avi-wire-news-display/1394901919.html]]
China may be… defend their own.”

# Impact – Hegemony key to solving nuclear war
Khalilzad ‘95
[(Dep. Secretary of Defense) Spring 1995 //THE Washington Quarterly]// 
__A world in__ … __global nuclear exchange.__
Topicality- Depends on case
Spending DA
# Uniqueness- Economic growth is shaky but will stabilize – fiscal discipline is the biggest risk for collapse
Blinder 3-31-11
[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704308904576226570362791958.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]
__If you’re searching__ … __leave me uneasy.__ 
# Link- Space programs cause huge deficit spending 
Hsu ‘9

__There are limited__ … be mutually supported. 
On Monday, the … the long-term.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]