[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Veil of Ignorance AC
definition:
Rollins defines animal rights
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">B. E. Rollin, “Animal welfare, animal rights and agriculture,” Journal of Animal Science, 1990, 68:3456-3461.</span>

prefer def. allows fw debate
prefer res. aff. interps
presume neg time
err aff wronged
characteristics non-existance
aff doesn't have to prove all animals right
deny existance of word nonsensical
neg converse of res
v: justice
vc: consistance with principles chosen behind veil of ignorance

it's only the way to agree unamimously on principles Rawls 1 "It may be...reconciliation of interests"
A Theory of Justice” John <span class="il" style="background-color: #70bd36; color: #eeffe2;">Rawls</span>. 1971.<span style="color: #112508;">[[@http://cneo.net/study/RawlsTJ.pdf]]</span>

unanimous agreement necessary

principles of veil consistant with purpose of justice weak powerful

Veil of Ignorance ignores arbitrary advantage, which results in a fair agreement. Rawls Two "rather the guiding...recognize self imposed.

guideline proper onduct exclude factors out of one's control

under the veil of ignorance, people would agree that no one should be advantaged by uncontrollable circumstances.
Rawls THREE "one should not...with these restrictions"
A Theory of Justice” John <span class="il" style="background-color: #70bd36; color: #eeffe2;">Rawls</span>. 1971.<span style="color: #112508;">[[@http://cneo.net/study/RawlsTJ.pdf]]</span>

From a veil of ignorance, moral agents would rationally choose to be choose to be risk averse and thus adopt a principle tat would guarantee basic goods for themselves.

FREEMAN "the original position....principles of utility"
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Freeman, Samuel. "Original Position." Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. [[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/original-position/#ArgForDifPri|http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/original-position/#ArgForDifPri]].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">no idea what 8.7 million species you were </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">contract to principles guarantee basic rights</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">animals avoid risks</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">wouldn't want distinction based on rationality babies </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hilden - "rawls emphasizes that...fertile humans do"</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">A Contractarian View of Animal Rights: Insuring Against the Possibility of Being a Non-Human Aniaml” Julie Hilden. J.D Yale University. https://animallaw.info/journals/jo_pdf/lralvol14_1_5.pdf</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">rationality not required </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">communication not prereq </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">and animals do display a variety of capacities tied to moral choice. Hilden two "however, the claim...choices they make:"</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">A Contractarian View of Animal Rights: Insuring Against the Possibility of Being a Non-Human Aniaml” Julie Hilden. J.D Yale University. https://animallaw.info/journals/jo_pdf/lralvol14_1_5.pdf</span>





==Negative== 

internalism NC

negate deny truth of
presume neg
moral process diff. right wrong
reasons explanatory
not normative force for all agents
comparison to agents believes

animals are incapable of having internal reasons for action

I contend that animals are unable to conceptualize the difference between a true state of affairs and a false one because they have no notion of concepts. Walters- " frey's notion of...other as true"

beliefs nec. to have internal reasons



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]