[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

===WOMEN IN DEBATE/SECTIONS 1AC=== 

Ruby's narrative:
There is something <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">very wrong</span> in the debate community. It makes being a woman in debate like being a __shadow__. You’re always there, but does anyone __really__ notice? My personal experiences would say __no__. I’ve had my fair share of woes being a woman of color in the debate community. For example, when a coach not only insults your debate skills, but blames it on the fact that you’re a __brown female__, this doesn’t radiate the “positive vibes” that this community claims to have waiting for you. And what kind of message does it send me when this coach is hired by another school only __one week__ after being fired? That it __doesn’t matter__. My personal suffering isn’t important enough to prohibit a coach who made __personal attacks on me__, from being hired. Not only that, but the fact that I was called __“over-sensitive”__ and __“thin skinned”__ because I __COULDN’T TAKE A JOKE.__ People underestimate how hard it really is to be a successful female in this activity. You are constantly being judged and scrutinized on the most __miniscule__ decisions you make. Where is the line between being strong and aggressive in a debate round, and being a __bitch?__ Why is it more acceptable for a man to be a hard ass, but when a women is, it’s considered __“over-assertive”?__ Would __anyone in this room__ know the dilemma I had this morning, picking out what clothes to wear? Would this skirt be seen as __too__ provocative, or acceptable? Are jeans __too__ safe, or do they scream “uncommitted”? If I don’t put on blush, will I lose a tenth of a speaker point? The fact that I __even have to ask__ myself these questions shows that women are already staring off behind, and are brushed off as unworthy competitors if they fail to keep up. People may talk of fairness and education when it comes to running an “un-topical” aff, but we don’t take the fact that __I am already coming up short__ before the round __even starts__ into consideration. What is “fairness” in the context of a debate round? It __pales__ in comparison to “fairness” in the debate community. A common phrase used to describe the urgency of an aff is “try or die”, and it couldn’t be more true. If we don’t try to rectify the wrongs done against women, we __will__ see the death of females in this activity. Nuclear war and extinction are __not__ impacts that are even __worth__ discussing, it will have no effect on the real world. __But this will__. We need to evaluate how the bias against women affects the debate community as a whole and use the discourse __in this round__ to change it.



<span style="background-color: white;">**Thus the plan**: </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">You should vote aff because we have presented a problem about the current debate community and an ethical standpoint to discuss and help breakdown that problem. We think that even if we do not abolish sexism in the community, what we offer is a good starting point and a step in the direction of creating a more inclusive and gender sensitive community.</span>




**Being is not static – we are in a constant state of redefinition of the self. However, many times the self is defined only by identifying what it is not. We are in a constant struggle to define ourselves within a masculine activity. The search for self-preservation drives identity to be conditioned as part of the group or external to it. Peace is impossible without a rupture point of what it means to act with hospitality to the Other, regardless of difference**



<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Burggraeve ’06</span>__</span>. (Ph.D, professor of moral theology at the Catholic University of Leuven, past student of Emmanuel Levinas, __Revista Portuguesa de Filosofia__, //The Other and Me: Interpersonal and Social Responsibility in Emmanuel Levinas//, T. 62, Fasc. 2/4, Apr.-Dec. 2006, P631-649, JSTOR, AG)


Now we can synthetically... being, interested is maintained” (AE 5/4-5).


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Us-them dichotomies empirically lead to genocide and displacement of populations – privileging reason over experience and detachment over engagement encourages a violent competition for power where the disadvantage are inevitably excluded and exterminated</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Simpson 95</span>__** (Chris, scholar in Human Rights and the merits of Democracy. Common Courage Press, “The Splendid Blond Beast” 1995. http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Genocide/SplendidBlondeBeast.html AD 7/8/09) JM
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Friedrich Nietzsche called the ... or tacit complicity in the crime.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The debate community pushes women out of the activity for trying to be a part of something where they don’t “belong” – debate is a men’s game meant to exclude “nice girls”, who should be in a less competitive, less aggressive extra-curricular. Debate is a model of the real world and the exclusion of women from the activity just because they don’t fit into pre-conceived gender roles designs our future participation in policy discourse</span>**


<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">J. Cinder </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Griffin and </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Holly Jane </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Raider</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, 19</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">89</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, “Women in High School Debate”, Punishment Paradigms: Pros and Cons,http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Griffin&Raider1989PunishmentPar.htm</span>



<span style="font-size: 80%;">Additionally, given its competitive nature, ... directly attributed to the debate community. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The lack of successful female exposure at the novice level increases the likelihood of dropout from the activity. This could be successful female debaters across the varsity division or it could be successful woman coaches. Think long and hard about the male to female ratio in coaching: the last female coach listed as coach of the year was Lynn Schmitt in 2003, and before her was Pam Cady in 1996. It is the responsibility of this community to provide female role models if it ever hopes to maintain female participation </span>**
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">J. Cinder </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Griffin and </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Holly Jane </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Raider</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, 19</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">89</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, “Women in High School Debate”, Punishment Paradigms :Pros and Cons,http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Griffin&Raider1989PunishmentPar.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">However, there are many ... female attrition in high school debate. </span>



**Debaters and judges are biased against women and minorities- those that don’t fit into the assumptions of what debate SHOULD be.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers 97</span>. Jack E. Rogers, PH.D., Director of forensics at the University of Texas @ Tyler. “A Community of Unequals: An Analysis of Dominant and Subdominant Culturally Linked Perceptions of Participation and Success within Intercollegiate Competitive Debate” <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Contemporary Argumentation and Debate. </span>[[@http://cedadebate.org/CAD/index.php/CAD/article/viewFile/213/197]]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The question was then posed... </span>absolutely nothing to do with it.”



**<span style="background-color: white;">Voting aff solves: Rights or codified rule is not the solution for this inequality – The only way to gain equality and freedom or to break out of oppression is to rise up and claim it for ourselves</span>**
Linda **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Zerilli,</span>__** June 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__** [“Refiguring rights through the political practice of sexual difference” Journal of Feminist Cultural Studies, 15(2)]
When read through ...is guaranteed by women themselves


**Academic articles in debate tend to adopt an “expert voice” and exclude personal experiences of the authors. Only a joining of autoreflexion and analysis of debate culture enables us to change oppression. We must remove ourselves from only the role as the observer, and become participants in our movement**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brenda </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Allen</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Mark </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Orbe</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Margarita </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Olivas 1999</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [communication theory” the complexity of our tears”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Clear norms regulate traditional ... dialogue to emerge</span>.


**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Solvency is only possible in the world of the affirmative. We make the first essential step in solving gender bias by encouraging independence and self- confidence. We are the only ones pushing for micro-political change. We will concede that debate won’t change on the macro level with a single aff ballot, but our framework of empathy is critical to challenge dominant frameworks. If we are not active and if we are not recognized we can never break the cycle of male domination and female exclusion</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">J. Cinder </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Griffin and </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Holly Jane </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Raider</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, 19</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">89</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, “Women in High School Debate”, Punishment Paradigms :Pros and Cons,http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Griffin&Raider1989PunishmentPar.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The issue of female role ... associated with gender bias.</span>



**What we say in this round matters- change is only achieved by women actively try to rectify these wrongs. We cannot wait for the male-dominated system to change itself, but must act for ourselves. Debate and discussion inevitably leads to the changes that we predict. We will not be silenced any longer**


<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">SandraBerkowitz</span>Stafford,<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> University of Minnesota, “A Brief Comment About Women in Debate”, Response to1989 - Punishment Paradigms: Pros and Cons, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Berkowitz1989Punishment.htm</span> 1989



<span style="font-size: 110%;">Another answer to the problems ... The rest is up to you.</span>



**Debate is a unique space that prepares students to become activists, but without constant criticism it becomes just another form of oppression.**



<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coverstone 06</span>__</span>. Alan Coverstone, Montgomery Bell Academy. “Acting on Activism.” <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Theory and Topicality. </span>[[@http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/2006/Acting%20on%20Activism.pdf]]


<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Contest debate is so all-consuming ... training is not all that is available.</span>





**Individual action is just as important in the debate community as it is to the political community, and fiating its greater impact also opens up the possibility of widespread change to students.**



<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coverstone 06</span>__</span>. Alan Coverstone, Montgomery Bell Academy. “Acting on Activism.” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Theory and Topicality</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">. </span>[[@http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/2006/Acting%20on%20Activism.pdf]]


<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The power to imagine public advocacy ....</span> participatory abstention in America today.



**Solvency is only possibly if we create open space to exchange ideas.**


Gordon**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Mitchell</span>__**, University of Pittsburgh, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">95</span>__**, “Time For An Activist Outward Turn In Academic Debate”, United States Foreign Policy : China Cards, http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Mitchell1995China.htm


<span style="font-size: 90%;">How can the debate community ... three major modes of public engagement.</span>


**We must critically evaluate and understand each other’s side in order to achieve positive results.**


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Becky </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kidder</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 19</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">92</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - Effluents and affluence: The Global Pollution Debate, “Symposium: Women in Debate: Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle”, http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Oudingetal1992Pollution.htm</span>


<span style="font-size: 90%;">I strongly believe that the most effective tool ... is the only way to achieve positive results.</span>



===Ruby's Seasonal Aff=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US governments approach to space is one of mapping and division, fighting for control and the establishment of hierarchical order. The abstract space beyond our world cannot fit into rigid lines, and the attempt to control our relation with space is a symptom of negative formations of power that prevent liberation from oppression</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deleuze and Guattari 1987 (Giles and Felix, Prof of philosophy @ Paris, and Fmr. Psychoanalyst @ La Borde, "A Thousand Plateaus" 433-444)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"The State indeed proceeds otherwise...to effect the striation of space."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our only means of self-knowing is to renounce condemnation and judgement - renouncing universal sameness dooms us to ontological destruction</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Judith Butler, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative literature at the University of California, Berkely, 2005. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Giving an Account of Oneself</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Fordham University Press, p 6</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Consider that one way...limitation that one knows."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must live in a world of actualities and acknowledge that we are not all-knowing - only the life of the nomad and breaking from identity and relinquishing political agendas solves the aff</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">May 05 (Todd, Gilles Deleuze, p 148-153)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"How might we conceive resistance to...always in the process of becoming."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Genocide is inevitable without the plan - we must reject plans of utopian solvency</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John C. Mohawk, associate professor of history at SUNY-Buffalo, member of the Seneca Nation, 2000, Utopian Legacies: A History of Conquest and Oppression in the Western World, p. 4-5</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"People who believe that they are...including systematic acts of genocide"</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We are obligated to critically oppose patterns of domination by rethinking the aspects of what it means to be human. It is only this form of interrogation that allows us to cultivate society in terms of a renewed value to lifeb</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gill 2000 - Stephen, professor of political science at York University, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Questioning Geopolitics</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, p. 130-131</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"So what is the role and duty...what it means to be human"</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Freedom is to be free from a plan - to be without beginning or end and always be in the middle, which is to take the journey for journey's sake</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deleuze and Guattari 87 (A Thousand Plateaus, Capitalism and Schizophrenia, p. 24-25)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Write to the nth power, the...and picks up speed in the middle"</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must rethink thinking to break imperial domination that eliminates emancipation from flawed thought</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spanos (William V., Professor of English, Binghamton University, Americas Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, 2000, p. xxi)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"More specifically, it calls for a rethinking...achieved imperial domination of the planet."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff represents a point of departure from ocularcentric modes of thinking and domination</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spanos (William V., Professor of English, Binghamton University, Americas Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, 2000, p. 61)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"If indeed, the highly prized...site of ontology as point of departure"</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Disruptive discourse is the only means of exposing previously invisible violence -- it is necessary to witness the violence of the state and reject it</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spanos (William V., Professor of English, Binghamton University, Americas Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, 2000, p. 121-122)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"As Guibert, Napoleon, Palmerston...its imperial intervention in Vietnam"</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transformation of invisible individuals and invisible violence disables the metanarrative of the Pax Americana -- Vietnam proves that solvency is possible</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spanos (William V., Professor of English, Binghamton University, Americas Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, 2000, p. 200)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"For, to reiterate, it was precisely...American intellectuals of the Left"</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We embrace nomadic energies - the only means of resisting destructive relations of dominance</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spanos (William V., Professor of English, Binghamton University, Americas Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, 2000, p. xxi)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"To "repeat" my beginning...democracy and the Pax Americana"</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rethinking existence in terms of unfixed, uncharted entities averts extinction -- the aff is the key step to becoming the nomad</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ladelle McWhorter, Professor of Philosophy, Northeast Missouri State, HEIDEGGER AND THE EARTH, 1992, p. ix</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"In 'Earth-Thinking and Transformation,'...we are to avoid destroying the earth."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PLAN: The United States federal government should create and fund a nomadic expedition beyond the Earth's mesosphere</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What we say in this round matters - without questions of agency, consent is manufactured and causes us to submit to acts of violence</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John Collins, Asst. Professor of global studies at St. Lawrence, and Ross Glover, visiting professor of sociology at St. Lawrence University, 2002, Collateral Language, p. 6-7</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alexa's Seasonal 1ac</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Human’s constant strive for a citizen identity makes wars and violence inevitable. Even as governments and treaties masquerade as peacekeepers, the underlying causes just below the surface recreate violence.</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must radically question human self-interest in order to avoid destruction</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Burggraeve ’06</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (Ph.D, professor of moral theology at the Catholic University of Leuven, past student of Emmanuel Levinas, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Revista Portuguesa de Filosofia</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Other and Me: Interpersonal and Social Responsibility in Emmanuel Levinas</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, T. 62, Fasc. 2/4, Apr.-Dec. 2006, P631-649, JSTOR, AG)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Now we can synthetically...being, interested is maintained” (AE 5/4-5)."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Current SETI policy encourages notions of a ‘citizen identity’ necessitating the creation of an alien Other that is dangerous and must be excluded</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Dean ’97</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(political theory professor at Hobard and William Smith Colleges, author and editor with works published by Cornell University Press, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Theory & Event</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Familiarity of Strangeness: Aliens, Citizens, and Abduction</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Volume 1, Issue 2, Muse, AG)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Underneath such approaches to ...</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and mistrust."</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Plan:</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The United States Federal Government should fund messaging to extra-terrestrial intelligence.</span></span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The discussion of SETI encourages global cooperation</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Denning and Piotelat</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">08. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kathryn, MA in Anthropology, Ph.D. in Archaeology and Prehistory, member of the International Academy of Astronautics – SETI Permanent Study Group, Interstellar Message Composition Task Group, and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #400000;">Elisabeth, “</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">UNESCO and SETI,” July 5, 2008, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.setileague.org/editor/unesco.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In planning for an upcoming ...SETI is a logical extension of that mission.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">International cooperation and cosmopolitanism allows for transformations of the self and opens possibilities for change.</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Delanty,06</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Professor of Sociology in the University of Liverpool, UK. “The cosmopolitan imagination: critical cosmopolitanism and social theory,” The British Journal of Sociology 57.1, Wiley Intersciences.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.5pt;">The micro dimension of cosmopolitanism ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> both globalization and nationalism.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As demonstrated by science fiction texts, by conceiving of aliens as the ultimate Other, we understand ourselves and our moral role in the universe</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Cohen ’92</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Threepenny Review</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contact: The Making of the Representative for Planet Earth</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Autumn 1992, No. 51, pg7-8, JSTOR. AG)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although the plot remains the same ... of his obsession: he no longer knows the difference.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In order to achieve ethical decision-making we must interrogate our relationship with the Other</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell ’99</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (PhD in international relations from Australian National University, professor of Cultural and Political Geography at Durham University, Associate Director for the Durham Centre for Advanced Photography Studies, has held positions at Johns Hopkins University, Keele University, and Newcastle University, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deterritorialization of Responsibility: Levinas, Derrida, and Ethics after the End of Philosophy</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, p36-37, Google Books, AG)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If ethics is ... different positions together.”50</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Levinas’s deontology of the Other creates a world in which nobody can deny responsibility, and ethical decision-making is the norm.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell ’99</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (PhD in international relations from Australian National University, professor of Cultural and Political Geography at Durham University, Associate Director for the Durham Centre for Advanced Photography Studies, has held positions at Johns Hopkins University, Keele University, and Newcastle University, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deterritorialization of Responsibility: Levinas, Derrida, and Ethics after the End of Philosophy</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, p35, Google Books, AG)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Levinas’s thought is appealing... responsibility, in contrast to autonomous freedom.”38</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Acceptance of the unknown Other through Levinasian ethics is key to avoid genocide and extinction**.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell ’99</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (PhD in international relations from Australian National University, professor of Cultural and Political Geography at Durham University, Associate Director for the Durham Centre for Advanced Photography Studies, has held positions at Johns Hopkins University, Keele University, and Newcastle University, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deterritorialization of Responsibility: Levinas, Derrida, and Ethics after the End of Philosophy</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, p30-32, Google Books, AG)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In this contemporary milieu...deterritorialized by Heidegger (and others).19</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]