[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
Reason supplies evidence of inherent value for three reasons:
1. analogy
2. reason provides coherency to moral worth.
3. practical reason is explicitly valuable

Obligations to others not dependent on geopolitical distinctions

Nussbaum/
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Martha Nussbaum. “Perpetual Peace, essays on Kant’s cosmopolitan ideal” MIT Press edited by James Bohman and Matthias Lutz-Bachmann 1997</span>

Justice imparts moral obligation for two reasons
1. normative force
2. psychologically fair treatment is a physical desire
Wolpert/
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stuart Wolpert, writer at UCLA on a study conducted by Matthew D. Lieberman accosiate professor of psychology, “Brain reacts to fairness as it does to money and chocolate, study shows”, April 21, 2008 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://newsroom.ucla.edu/portal/ucla/brain-reacts-to-fairness-as-it-49042.aspx?link_page_rss=49042]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Value Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">VC: consistence 2 rawls</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 1/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">John Rawls, “A Theory </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">­of Justice” Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1971, pp. 3-5, 7, 11-15, 17-22, 60-62, 136-142.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Original position</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Original position only way to reconcile competing interests</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 2/</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AC shows resolution true under veil of ignorance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">People would agree to global moral cosmopolitanism rooted in the minimal altruism principle</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. motivated by individual desires</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. all recognize problems of infinite moral obligation</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Membership in the veil is cosmopolitan </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Beitz/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Charles R. Beitz, “Cosmopolitan Ideals and National Sentiment”, The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 80, No. 10, Part 1: Eightieth Annual Meeting of the American Philosophical Association, Eastern Division (Oct., 1983), pp. 591-600 http://www.jstor.org/stable/2026155</span>


Cosmo allows special attitudes
1. favor personal goals w/o denying obligations
2. one may choose the life of a compatriot over a stranger w/o denying obligation
3. moral cost of assisting africans is assisting compatriots faster

Minimal altruism teleological and non-consequentialist
1. teleology focuses on end states like minimal altruism
2. Doesn't link to stock harms of util
3. all non-consequentialist theories grounded in preventing bad and promoting good
==Negative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Indie Pic</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">OB. 1 role of the ballot</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Haste/ language shapes the meaning of morality </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ph.D Helen Haste, at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality” http://tigger.uic.edu/~lnucci/MoralEd/articles/haste.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"They emphasize the....... discourse and language."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Racial slurs bad</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Language comes first</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">OB. 2 counteradvocacy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">I support "persons have a moral obligation to assist people in need"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sub A: Solves 100%</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sub B: Ac can't perm harm done</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AC can't sever b/c undercuts ground K2 education and fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AC must win comparative offense </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">OB. 3 Difference between individual and person</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sub A: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Unlike the word “person”, the word “individual” dehumanizes a person in a way contrary to morality.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Selznick 1/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Philip Selznick, Ph.D of sociology at UC Berkely, “The Moral Commonwealth: social theory and the promise of community” University of California Press 1994.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"The lesson to be........ all are acceptable"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sub B:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Person respects ground projects which shape identity showing a comparative superiority of the word</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Selznick 2/ </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"The lesson to be derived........ all are acceptable."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Selznick 3/ Persons are not required to play prescribed roles</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"This argument takes.......... emotion, belief, and conduct"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sub C:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Selznick 4 concludes/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"Individual and individualism........ the abstract individual"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">OB. 4 solvency</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">I solve because I take the same action as the AC just rejecting negative implications of individuals</span>


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]