[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
AC 1
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Def of animal rights</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">B. E. Rollin, “Animal welfare, animal rights and agriculture,” Journal of Animal Science, 1990, 68:3456-3461.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">one can … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ethic to animals </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The standard is consistency with principles chosen behind the veil of ignorance. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The veil of ignorance is the only way to come to a unanimous agreement on the principles of justice. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rawls </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">It may be…</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">reconciliation of interests.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The veil of ignorance ignores arbitrary advantages, which results in a fair agreement. Rawls TWO, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Rather, the guiding .. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">recognize self-imposed.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Under the veil of ignorance, people would agree that no one should be advantaged by uncontrollable circumstances.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rawls THREE, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">One should not … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">with these restrictions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">From a veil of ignorance, moral agents would rationally choose to be risk-averse and thus adopt a principle that would guarantee basic goods for themselves. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Freeman,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The original position … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">principle of utility.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">You wouldn’t know if you were a mentally retarded or were an infant- meaning you wouldn’t contract to principles that place distinctions based on rationality.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Contractarian View of Animal Rights: Insuring Against the Possibility of Being a Non-Human Aniaml” Julie Hilden. J.D Yale University. https://animallaw.info/journals/jo_pdf/lralvol14_1_5.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Rawls emphasizes that …fertile humans do.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, animals do display a variety of capacities tied to moral choice. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hilden TWO</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">However, the claim … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">choices they make.</span>__**
==Negative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Value: justice</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">All normativity is based in practical reason. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, practical reason is the only way to justify moral norms that isn’t infinitely regressive, unlike appeals to desire or authority. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">David Velleman [New York University], “Self to Self,” The Philosophical Review Vol. 105, No. 1 (Jan., 1996), pp. 39-76</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As we have seen…certainly wouldn’t help.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the ability to have practical reason is the basis for all moral norms.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, acting with consistent practical reasons is what makes us a person. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Velleman 2 writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Kant offered …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">drawn toward personhood.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the standard is acting consistently with practical reasons.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animals don’t have practical rationality in the same way as humans because they don’t have the ability to set ends and goals for themselves or act on reasons other than their instincts. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Allen W. Wood, “Kant on Duties Regarding Nonrational Nature,” Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society Supplement, Volume LXXII (1998).</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As we have …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">being at all</span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have an obligation under practical reason to try to avoid our animal instincts and act more like moral and rational creatures</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Leukam, Mary, "Dignified Animals: How "Non-Kantian" is Nussbaum's Conception of Dignity?" (2011).Philosophy Theses.Paper 89.http://digitalarchive.gsu.edu/philosophy_theses/89</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Again</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">although</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">a human being</span>


NC 2

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">Contention 1</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;"> contracts can only be formed between equals and humans reign over animals. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;">David Gauthier, “MORALS BY AGREEMENT,” 1986 </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">:</span>



**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">morality requires a ...</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;"> **__rationally grounded morality.__**</span>











<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">Contention 2 Animals don't have future directed interests. </span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Lori Gruen “The Moral Status of Animals” 2010 Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">Consider a seal ...</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;"> **__do not have.__**</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]