[[toc]]
=Info= 
Neg cites: AJ - [[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&tf=1&to=ajisthe@gmail.com|ajisthe@gmail.com]]
aff cites: Joyce - [[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&tf=1&to=joycetang26@gmail.com|joycetang26@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC State - Yucca Mountain (Most recent)== 
===Plan=== 
The United States federal government should develop laser propulsion technology that disposes of nuclear waste materials into space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

===Contention One is Inherency=== 
NASA has abandoned nuclear waste disposal in space
World Nuclear Association November 2010 (“Radioactive Waste Management Appendix 2 – Storage and Disposal Options” http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/inf04ap2.html]jt
Disposal in outer space. The objective of this option is to remove the radioactive waste from the Earth, for all time, by ejecting it into outer space. The waste would be packaged so that it would be likely to remain intact under most conceivable accident scenarios. A rocket or space shuttle would be used to launch the packaged waste into space. There are several ultimate destinations for the waste which have been considered, including directing it into the Sun. The high cost means that such a method of waste disposal could only be appropriate for separated high-level waste (HLW) or spent fuel (i.e. long-lived highly radioactive material that is relatively small in volume). The question was investigated in the United States by NASA in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Because of the high cost of this option and the safety aspects associated with the risk of launch failure, this option was abandoned. Today only radioisotope thermal generators (TRGs) containing a few kilograms of Pu-238 are launched by NASA (see information page on Nuclear Reactors for Space).

Nuclear waste is rapidly piling up—no other solution has been found
Merchant 11/17/10 (Brian, “Nuclear Waste Piling Up Across US: 138 Million Pounds and Counting” http://www.treehugger.com/files/2010/11/nuclear-waste-piles-up-across-us-138-million-pounds.php) MFR]jt
What happens to all that radioactive waste created by nuclear power plants? Not much. In 1982, Congress mandated the construction of a national nuclear waste repository. It's been nearly 30 years since then, of course, and there's no such repository. Planned for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, it was scuttled by the Obama administration due to NIMBY issues -- and there's no rush to find an alternative to Yucca. As a result, nuke plants are still required to keep their waste on site. So, they do. In Virginia, for instance, nuclear waste continues to pile up -- at one site, the radioactive waste containers cover a plot of land the size of a football field. Between Virginia's two nuclear power plants -- the Surry and North Anna Power Stations -- there's 5.2 million pounds of waste in storage. And, of course, more is always on the way. The Daily Press sets the scene at Surry: The bus stops before a barbed wire gate at Surry Power Station, less than a mile from the James River ... Inside the fence, on a concrete pad the size of a football field, is nearly 1.9 million pounds of radioactive nuclear waste. Encased in concrete casks and no immediate public health threat, the waste is a by-product of nearly four decades of atomic energy-making at Virginia's oldest nuclear power plant ... Most of the fuel is stored in 16-foot tall concrete casks that stand upright and weigh more than 262,000 pounds when full. Scenes like this are common across the country -- with no permanent place to store the waste, it simply piles up. There are plenty of reasons that this is unacceptable: potential ecological, human health, and security-related woes abound. Many of these containment sites weren't designed for long-term storage, which has environmental advocates and scientists concerned. Edwin Lyman, a physicist and nuclear proliferation expert with the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington, D.C, told the Daily Press, "There are a handful of scenarios, such as an earthquake or terrorist attack, that could cause the casks or pools to leak, he said. Also, spent nuclear fuel remains radioactive for thousands of years -- it could cause the concrete and other materials to erode." There are also fears that nuclear waste is leeching into groundwater after years of storage -- tritium, the radioactive isotope of hydrogen, was discovered in groundwater near North Anna. It doesn't pose any immediate health risks, officials say, but the occurrence does point to worrying possibilities. National security hawks worry that the policy of leaving so much nuclear waste onsite could be exploited. And environmentalists have long been concerned about the effects of radioactive waste on nearby wildlife and ecosystems. There's some 138 million pounds of nuclear waste piling up at power plants around the nation. It's probably time we found someplace to lock it up.

===Contention Two is Harms=== 

The U.S dumps waste onto native populations, rendering them an __expendable population__—they are irrelevant as long as we can continue the march of progress
Brook in ’98-[Brook, Cal Berkeley Sociology Professor, 98-(Dan, "The Environmental Genocide: Native Americans and Toxic Waste." American Journal of Economics and Sociology, January 1998, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0254/is_n1_v57/ai_20538772/pg_1?tag=artBody;col1 accessed 7/3/08)

One very significant toxic threat ... polluting industries on Tribal land"]jt
One very significant toxic threat to Native Americans comes from governmental and commercial hazardous waste sitings. Because of the severe poverty and extraordinary vulnerability of Native American tribes, their lands have been targeted by the U.S. government and the large corporations as permanent areas for much of the poisonous industrial by-products of the dominant society. "Hoping to take advantage of the devastating chronic unemployment, pervasive poverty and sovereign status of Indian Nations", according to Bradley Angel, writing for the international environmental organization Greenpeace, "the waste disposal industry and the U.S. government have embarked on an all-out effort to site incinerators, landfills, nuclear waste storage facilities and similar polluting industries on Tribal land"

And, this waste targets natives specifically because they are seen as an expendable population—this exploitation is only increasing
Brook 98, Cal Berkeley Sociology Professor, 98

(Dan, "The Environmental Genocide: Native Americans and Toxic Waste." American Journal of Economics and Sociology, January 1998, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0254/is_n1_v57/ai_20538772/pg_1?tag=artBody;col1 accessed 7/3/08]jt
First, toxic waste poses a severe health and safety risk. Some chemical agents cause leukemia and other cancers; others may lead to organ ailments, asthma, and other dysfunctions; and yet others may lead to birth defects such as anencephaly. Toxic waste accomplishes these tragic consequences through direct exposure, through the contamination of the air, land, and water, and through the bioaccumulation of toxins in both plants and animals. And because of what Ben Chavis in 1987 termed "environmental racism," people of color (and poor people) are disproportionately affected by toxic waste. Native Americans are especially hard hit because of their ethnicity, their class, and their unique political status in the United States.

The USFG and the DOE consistently has been storing its nuclear waste on impoverished Native American communities. –There is no debate here.

Kamps 11 Kevin Kamps; Radioactive Waste Specialist at Beyond Nuclear, a Takoma Park, Maryland-based safe energy advocacy organization,January 26, 2011, “Press Statement by Kevin Kamps, Radioactive Waste Specialist at Beyond Nuclear, on the publication of the final report by the U.S. Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear Future”
“Today the U.S. Department of Energy’s Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear Future unveiled the result of its two-year-long investigation into what to do with the accumulated radioactive waste at this country’s atomic reactors. By this year’s end, that waste will constitute a mountain 70 years high, with the first cupful generated on December 2, 1942 at Enrico Fermi’s Manhattan Project lab at the University of Chicago, when scientists first created a self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction. There remains no viable solution for either the management or certainly the ‘disposal’ of radioactive waste. Yet, the one essential recommendation that is not contained in the DOE report is to stop making any more of it. While a child would never be allowed to continue piling up toys in his or her room indefinitely, failing to tidy up the mess, the nuclear industry continues to be permitted to manufacture some of the world’s most toxic detritus without a cleanup plan. The Blue Ribbon Commission’s final report confirms that no new miracle solutions have been found. Its preferred ‘solution’ appears to be ‘consolidated interim’ storage, an allegedly temporary but potentially permanent parking lot dumpsite for highly radioactive waste that, based on past practices, will likely be targeted at an Indian reservation or a poor community of color. In fact, the Blue Ribbon Commission points to the DOE’s Nuclear Waste Negotiator of the late 1980s and early 1990s as a model to follow. DOE’s Nuclear Waste Negotiator dangled money in front of impoverished Native American communities, hoping to entice them into ‘hosting’ hazardous radioactive waste parking lot dumps, an egregious environmental justice violation. Several years ago, environmental groups chronicled this shameful history in a backgrounder entitled “Radioactive Racism: The History of Targeting Native American Communities with High-Level Atomic Waste Dumps,” posted online. The most likely target today, given the Blue Ribbon Commission’s 5 to 10 year timeline to open a parking lot dump, is the Skull Valley Goshutes Indian Reservation in Utah. The Private Fuel Storage, LLC proposal already received a construction and operations license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 2006, despite widespread environmental justice movement opposition. Background information is posted online athttp://www.nirs.org/radwaste/scullvalley/skullvalley.htm. ‘Centralized interim’ storage sites for the country’s irradiated reactor fuel rods could easily become permanent if no suitable geological repository site is found. It will mean transporting the waste from reactors predominantly located east of the Mississippi to a likely more remote, western location. And these wastes would then have to be moved again, transported past potentially 50 million homes, en route to a ‘permanent’ dump site or reprocessing facility. This amounts to a risky radioactive waste shell game on our roads, rails, and waterways. Reprocessing, a chemical separation used extensively in France, creates enormous amounts of additional radioactive wastes that are discharged into the air and sea and a plutonium stockpile that could be diverted for nuclear weapons use. While the Blue Ribbon Commission does not recommend a full-scale return to commercial reprocessing for now, it does endorse the DOE still squandering tens to hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayers’ money year after year on reprocessing and associated “advanced reactor” research, development, and demonstration activities. The repository debacle ended temporarily in 2011 with the wise cancelation of the scientifically flawed Yucca Mountain dumpsite proposal in Nevada. But new moves are afoot to search for an alternative site with the granite states – such as Vermont, New Hampshire, Wisconsin, Minnesota and North Carolina – highly favored. The Blue Ribbon Commission may point to the granite repository currently under construction in Finland as the way forward. But as one Scandinavian official stated unforgettably in the haunting documentary, Into Eternity, that examines the implications for the future if the Finnish repository is ever completed – in reality, “nobody knows anything at all.” Attempting to find a site that can store deadly radioactive waste for a million years – the amount of time that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency acknowledges the waste will remain hazardous – could indeed be beyond the scope of humanity for the foreseeable future. But advocates of dump sites, permanent or temporary, argue that something must be done with the waste already accumulated. Almost all reactor fuel pools are filled to capacity, necessitating ‘overflow parking’ in outdoor casks on site: both are vulnerable to accidents, attacks, and natural disasters, as shown so clearly by the Fukushima Nuclear Catastrophe. If a cask wears down from its exposure to the elements over time, not to mention the thermally hot high-level radioactivity contained within it, no safe, sure plan yet exists to transfer the waste inside it to a new cask.

Nuclear testing and storage is an __ongoing nuclear war__ against indigenous people and the third world.

Kato 93 Masahide Kato, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii; 1993,“Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze;” Alternatives, 18:3; Summer]LS
The vigorous invasion of the logic of capitalist accumulation into the last vestige of relatively autonomous space in the periphery under late capitalism is propelled not only by the desire for incorporating every fabric of the society into the division of labor but also by the desire for "pure" destruction/extermination of the periphery.26 The penetration of capital into the social fabric and the destruction of nature and preexisting social organizations by capital are not separable. However, what we have witnessed in the phase of late capitalism is a rapid intensification of the destruction and extermination of the periphery. In this context, capital is no longer interested in incorporating some parts of the periphery into the international division of labor. The emergence of such "pure" destruction/extermination of the periphery can be explained, at least partially, by another problematic of late capitalism formulated by Ernest Mandel: the mass production of the means of destruction.27 Particularly, the latest phase of capitalism distinguishes itself from the earlier phases in its production of the "ultimate" means of destruction/extermination, i.e., nuclear weapons. Let us recall our earlier discussion about the critical historical 348 Nuclear Globalismi Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze conjuncture where the notion of "strategy" changed its nature and became deregulated/dispersed beyond the boundaries set by the interimperial rivalry. Herein, the perception of the ultimate means of destruction can be historically contextualized. The only instances of real nuclear catastrophe perceived and thus given due recognition by the First World community are the explosions at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which occurred at this conjuncture. Beyond this historical threshold, whose meaning is relevant only to the interimperial rivalry, the nuclear catastrophe is confined to the realm of fantasy, for instance, apocalyptic imagery. And yet how can one deny the crude fact that nuclear war has been taking place on this earth in the name of "nuclear testing" since the first nuclear explosion at Alamogordo in 1945? As of 1991, 1,924 nuclear explosions have occurred on earth.28 The major perpetrators of nuclear warfare are the United States (936 times), the former Soviet Union (715 times), France (192 times), the United Kingdom (44 times), and China (36 times).29 The primary targets of warfare ("test site" to use Nuke Speak terminology) have been invariably the sovereign nations of Fourth World and Indigenous Peoples. Thus history has already witnessed the nuclear wars against the Marshall Islands (66 times), French Polynesia (175 times), Australian Aborigines (9 times), Newe Sogobia (the Western Shoshone Nation) (814 times), the Christmas Islands (24 times), Hawaii (Kalama Island, also known as Johnston Island) (12 times), the Republic of Kazakhstan (467 times), and Uighur (Xinjian Province, China) (36 times).30 Moreover, although I focus primarily on "nuclear tests" in this article, if we are to expand the notion of nuclear warfare to include any kind of violence accrued from the nuclear fuel cycle (particularly uranium mining and disposition of nuclear wastes), we must enlist Japan and the European nations as perpetrators and add the Navaho, Havasupai and other Indigenous Nations to the list of targets. Viewed as a whole, nuclear war, albeit undeclared, has been waged against the Fourth World, and Indigenous Nations. The dismal consequences of "intensive exploitation," "low intensity intervention," or the "nullification of the sovereignty" in the Third World produced by the First World have taken a form of nuclear extermination in the Fourth World and Indigenous Nations. Thus, from the perspectives of the Fourth World and Indigenous Nations, the nuclear catastrophe has never been the "unthinkable" single catastrophe but the real catastrophe of repetitive and ongoing nuclear explosions and exposure to radioactivity. Nevertheless, ongoing nuclear wars have been subordinated to the imaginary grand catastrophe by rendering them as mere preludes to the apocalypse. As a consequence, the history and ongoing processes of nuclear explosions as war have been totally wiped out from the history and consciousness of the First Masahide Kato 349 World community. Such a discursive strategy that aims to mask the "real" of nuclear warfare in the domain of imagery of nuclear catastrophe can be observed even in Stewart Firth's Nuclear Playground, which extensively covers the history of "nuclear testing" in the Pacific: Nuclear explosions in the atmosphere . . . were global in effect. The winds and seas carried radioactive contamination over vast areas of the fragile ecosphere on which we all depend for our survival and which we call the earth. In preparing for war, we were poisoning our planet and going into batde against nature itself.31 Although Firth's book is definitely a remarkable study of the history of "nuclear testing" in the Pacific, the problematic division/distinction between the "nuclear explosions" and the nuclear war is kept intact. The imagery of final nuclear war narrated with the problematic use of the subject ("we") is located higher than the "real" of nuclear warfare in terms of discursive value. This ideological division/hierarchization is the very vehicle through which the history and the ongoing processes of the destruction of the Fourth World and Indigenous Nations by means of nuclear violence are obliterated and hence legitimatized. The discursive containment/obliteration of the "real" of nuclear warfare has been accomplished, ironic as it may sound, by nuclear criticism. Nuclear criticism, with its firm commitment to global discourse, has established the unshakable authority of the imagery of nuclear catastrophe over the real nuclear catastrophe happening in the Fourth World and Indigenous Nations almost on a daily basis.

This Nuclear War has lead to a __literal__ __genocide__ of the indigenous peoples

Barkas 5 Jessica Barkas, J.D., Seattle University School of Law “Testing the Bomb: Disparate Impacts on Indigenous Peoples in the American West, the Marshall Islands, and in Kazakhstan” University of Baltimore School of Law Review 2005 Lexis]LS
The dawn of the nuclear age allowed the United States to dominate the world by means of a terrible and persistent force of nature. The full fury of nuclear weaponry was first visited upon Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945.Those events sparked the subsequent arms race between the United States and Soviet Union, resulting in hundreds of nuclear tests and thousands of doomsday weapons, many of which continue in existence today. Total disengagement of those weapons, however, would not mean we are safe from harm. Contamination of food and water supplies from nuclear testing, mining, and waste storage are issues with which future generations will be forced to contend. The Pandora's box cannot be closed, and we have assured a long and treacherous road ahead.The immediate consequences of our nuclear activities can be seen in the indigenous populations living in the shadow of our nuclear weapons facilities. n1These politically disempowered communities have been exploited by the superpowers in their rush to test more nuclear weapons and wreak more environmental havoc. n2 The governments of the United States and the former Soviet Union have been insensitive and indifferent to the heightened cultural vulnerabilities that have exacerbated contamination-related difficulties for affected populations. n3 They have largely refused to admit wrongdoing or to meaningfully compensate the victims. n4 [*30] This article focuses on the impact of nuclear programs on the Native Americans of the American West; the native population of the Marshall Islands; and the ethnic Kazahks of Kazakhstan. n5 These groups, who appear to share few characteristics, have several things in common. For example,each has had little in the way of capital or political power; each is located far from major command and population centers; and each is of predominantly different race or ethnicity from decision-makers. n6Additionally, each community relies on the bounty of their ancestral lands for food and medicine. n7 They work the land and feed their families with the fruits of their labors. n8 This "living off the land" aspect is rarely taken into account in assessments of the health effects of environmental contamination, so what may be considered an "acceptable" level of contaminate for non-indigenous communities merely living in the contaminated zone will be multiplied substantially for an indigenous person gathering the majority of his or her food, water, and medicine from the contaminated area. This circumstance does not fit neatly into any particular category of environmental injustice, but may be described as a special case of distributive justice, or amplified disparate impact. n9 Themes of procedural due process are also implicated, as the impacted populations have been denied both notice of the potential contamination of their ancestral homelands and the opportunity to be heard after the fact.n10Neither the Western Native Americans, nor the Marshall Islanders, nor the Kazakhs have been offered any benefits designed to offset their sacrifices.Native Americans and Marshall Islanders from impacted areas do not make up a significant proportion of the holders of high-paying technical positions at the Department of Energy (DOE) or Department of Defense (DOD). n11 Local Kazakhs were not [*31] hired to manage the Soviet nuclear test site. n12 Instead, theirhomes were deemed "national sacrifice zones," as some have referred to highly contaminated sites. n13 It is implied in the term and supported by the documented use of humans as unknowing nuclear test subjects that those inhabitants of "national sacrifice zones" are, in fact, national human sacrifices.n14 The practice of compelling humans to serve as unwitting test subjects has been described by some as genocide. n15The governments of each of the indigenous populations described have engaged in different forms of disinformation campaigns to hide the truth about the nature of their activities and the hazards to the affected communities' health. The United States continues to deny wrongdoing, and the government of the current Russian Federation cannot be held responsible for the duplicitous actions of the defunct Soviet administration. n16 The two superpowers are nonetheless accountable for the wholesale poisoning of countless indigenous communities committed in the name of national security.

Also, the killing of Native Americans makes all other killing possible.

Street 4 Paul Street, author, March 11, 2004. [“Those Who Deny the Crimes of the Past Reflections on American Racist Atrocity Denial, 1776-2004,” http://thereitis.org/displayarticle242.html]LS
It is especially important to appreciate the significance of the vicious, often explicitly genocidal “homeland” assaults on native-Americans, which set foundational racist and national-narcissist patterns for subsequent U.S. global butchery, disproportionately directed at non-European people of color. The deletion of the real story of the so-called “battle of Washita” from the official Seventh Cavalry history given to the perpetrators of the No Gun Ri massacre is revealing. Denial about Washita and Sand Creek (and so on) encouraged US savagery at Wounded Knee, the denial of which encouraged US savagery in the Philippines, the denial of which encouraged US savagery in Korea, the denial of which encouraged US savagery in Vietnam, the denial of which (and all before) has recently encouraged US savagery in Afghanistan and Iraq. It’s a vicious circle of recurrent violence, well known to mental health practitioners who deal with countless victims of domestic violence living in the dark shadows of the imperial homeland’s crippling, stunted, and indeed itself occupied social and political order. Power-mad US forces deploying the latest genocidal war tools, some suggestively named after native tribes that white North American “pioneers” tried to wipe off the face of the earth (ie, “Apache,” “Blackhawk,” and “Comanche” helicopters) are walking in bloody footsteps that trace back across centuries, oceans, forests and plains to the leveled villages, shattered corpses, and stolen resources of those who Roosevelt acknowledged as America’s “original inhabitants.” Racist imperial carnage and its denial, like charity, begin at home. Those who deny the crimes of the past are likely to repeat their offenses in the future as long as they retain the means and motive to do so. It is folly, however, for any nation to think that it can stand above the judgments of history, uniquely free of terrible consequences for what Ward Churchill calls “imperial arrogance and criminality.” Every new U.S. murder of innocents abroad breeds untold numbers of anti-imperial resistance fighters, ready to die and eager to use the latest available technologies and techniques to kill representatives – even just ordinary citizens – of what they see as an American Predator state. This along with much else will help precipitate an inevitable return of US power to the grounds of earth and history. As it accelerates, the U.S. will face a fateful choice, full of potentially grave or liberating consequences for the fate of humanity and the earth. It will accept its fall with relief and gratitude, asking for forgiveness, and making true reparation at home and abroad, consistent with an honest appraisal of what Churchill, himself of native-American (Keetoowah Cherokee) ancestry, calls “the realities of [its] national history and the responsibilities that history has bequeathed”: goodbye American Exceptionalism and Woodrow Wilson’s guns. Or Americans and the world will face the likely alternative of permanent imperial war and the construction of an ever-more imposing U.S. fortress state, perpetuated by Orwellian denial and savage intentional historical ignorance. This savage barbarism of dialectically inseparable empire and inequality will be defended in the last wagon-train instance by missiles and bombs loaded with radioactive materials wrenched from lands once freely roamed by an immeasurably more civilized people than those who came to destroy.

===Contention Three is Solvency=== 

The U.S. is critical to getting other countries off the reprocessing boat

UCS 3/21/11 (Union of Concerned Scientists, “Reprocessing and Nuclear Terrorism” http://www.ucsusa.org/nuclear_power/nuclear_power_risk/nuclear_proliferation_and_terrorism/reprocessing-and-nuclear.html]jt
Reprocessing would increase the risk of nuclear proliferation U.S. reprocessing would encourage other countries to do likewise and undermine the U.S. goal of halting the spread of proliferation-prone fuel cycle technologies, which is why U.S. policy has been to not engage in reprocessing. Some reprocessing advocates claim that a new generation of so-called "proliferation-resistant" reprocessing technologies now under development would resolve the proliferation concerns of conventional reprocessing. However, these technologies would actually be more difficult for international inspectors to safeguard because it would be harder to make precise measurements of the weapon-usable materials during and after processing. Moreover, all reprocessing technologies are far more proliferation-prone than direct disposal, and require much greater resources to be safeguarded against diversion and theft of plutonium.

Laser propulsion is the best method for staffed space exploration.

**we disagree with the gendered language in this evidence

Kare 90 (Jordin T., PhD Astrophysics “GROUND-TO-ORBITLASER PROPULSION ADVANCEDAPPLICATIONS” www.osti.gov/bridge/servlets/purl/6203669-Uxrfwv/6203669.pdf) ]jt
In the long run, the most valuable payload is always Man. Laser propulsion, because of its inherent safety, is a nearly ideal launcher for people, provided the basic requirements of a man-rated launcher can be met. Requirements: Excellent safety -- but actually less than for nuclear disposal Accident consequences are smaller, hysteria is less Sufficient payload capacity Low peak acceleration Apollo was "5 G's; Shuttle is -3 G's Good shock absorber required (<1 G vibration?) Ea,,, to do in a large vehicle with a high pulse rate Payload capacity needed is clearly less than 1 ton (a Mercury, capsule): Better structures, electronics available Minimal life-support needed Normal dock-or-reenter in "2 hrs (1 orbit) Assumes synchronized launch; 2-4 "windows" Worst-case dock-or-reenter in "24 hours Minimal guidance system (Must have some, to prevent tumble) Baggage goes up first! (Limit 1 carryon, must fit under your seat) Potentially "300 kg, but must include: Person (up to '_00 kg) Couch Air/water/power Pressure shell Emergency reentry system (pared to minimum mass via extensive tests) per day G-limit: Drives system to long range, high 1(_0 km range giv,_s5-6 G's for last few seconds @ 800 s Lp -12 G's at 400 s Thrust is constant, so acceleration peaks sharply at end of launch Trivial to throttle system --just reduce laser pulse rate But good shock absorbers will be a necessity

The plan solves—laser propulsion technology is effective, safe, and cheaper than geological disposal

Kare 90 (Jordin T., PhD Astrophysics “GROUND-TO-ORBITLASER PROPULSION ADVANCEDAPPLICATIONS” ]jt
Unlike weight- and volume-limited conventional systems, a laser launcher could potentially handle unprocessed or minimally-processed waste. This minimizes boda radiation and toxic chemical hazards on the ground, and is therefore crucial to an economical system. A laser system could even be cheaper than geological disposal, because there would be less handling (separation, glassification) of waste. Lasers can launch waste directly to any desirable disposal site -- the Lunar surface, interplanetary space, or deep space (solar escape). The required delta-V's are roughly 11 to 15 km/s, beyond the capability of any single-stage chemical rocket or proposed cannon launcher. Laser propulsion could even launch payloads directly into the Sun, at 30 km/s delta-V. The precision guidance and flexible launch direction of a laser system could allow dumping payloads into, e.g., a selected lunar crater, for future recovery if desired. Very small laser propulsion payloads could present problems of shielding (to protect both launch-site workers and possible crash site bystanders) and safe any-angle reentry [11]. However, some problems of laser propulsion, such as launch delays due to weatller, are not important as long as the total mass launched is constant and the reliability is high.

===Contention Four is Risk analysis/ Impact Calculus=== 
The current system of risk results in the passing of responsibility for action onto abstract situations, we no longer take the responsibility ourselves, but instead shift it onto apocalyptic scenarios that demand we take a specific action, this results in the production of large-scale disasters for the sole purpose of sustaining the depoliticization of domination and to ensure that neoliberalism continues to have a population to sacrifice, this exposes the flaw of utilitarian thinking-it does not have any inherently ethical stance, but rather pushes off responsibility for decisions somewhere else and calls for us to to take a random action in order to prevent an unlikely scenario.

Kathleen Stewart 99, Anthropology – UT Austin, & Susan Harding, Anthropology – UCSC, ‘99

(Annual Review of Anthropology, Vol. 28: 285-310, “BAD ENDINGS: American Apocalypsis”)-Modernity is both a condition of possibility for the contemporary ... into a machine of horror and destruction
Modernity is both a condition of possibility for the contemporary apocalyptic field and an example of its sensibility. Rapid, large-scale technological and industrial developments and the explosion of a mass consumer culture transformed the texture of experience; the phenomenal world became more chaotic, fragmented, and disorienting; sensory stimulation took on a new intensity (Schivelbusch 1979). A new sensational fascination with spectacles of catastrophe in the media developed as an aesthetic counterpart to the radical transformations of space, time, and industry, and as compensation for their alienating effects (B Singer 1995). But modernity itself is also already structured by apocalyptic-millennial vacillations between utopian and dystopian visions in which antimodern nostalgia for origins and simpler times meets dreams of enlightenment and progress, instrumentalr ationalitym eets avant-gardee xperimentationw ith form, and oppositions between the rational and the irrational, center and margin, and order and disorder become charged (Buell 1998, Ivy 1995, Lears 1994, Marx 1964). The modern world is characterized by simultaneous overstimulation and numbness, alarm and anesthesia (Berlant 1996, Buck-Morss 1995, Feldman 1994, Ivy 1993, Terkel 1988), and it is imagined in terms of dialectical extremes, of heaven and hell, or of dreamworld and catastrophe. In the omnipresent media, world events are presented as a state of constant, tautological crisis. Talk shows suggest that social and psychological problems are everywhere, and that our job, as an audience, is to recognize them in everything we see (Mellencamp 1992:150). In movies so scripted they can only be described as mythic, superhuman (and heavily armed) heroes avert imminent social, moral, and/or environmental collapse in a final battle, leaving a budding nuclear family standing in the ashes to begin the world again (Lapham 1996). "Reality" TV shows (such as COPS, 911, America's Most Wanted, and Unsolved Mysteries) take us inside the houses of the stigmatized poor and marginal for a glimpse of personal and social collapse, while shows about glamorous media stars and the lifestyles of the rich and famous present the millennial dream of a sudden twist of fate. Finally, critiques of the media, like critiques of modernity, are themselves often apocalyptic and millennial, depicting the media as conspiratorial, totalitarian, and contagious, or as a technological means of promoting universal education, common citizenship, global religious conversion, or utopian global community (Bray 1996, O'Leary 1998). The dialectic is unstable and subject to sudden shifts. In 1997, for instance, the utopian view of the interest as a teledemocracy and information superhighway gave way, for some, to darker themes of paranoia and conspiracy, with images of child pornography and sex cults trying to recruit new members online (Dean 1998:14). Mediation itself raises questions of control. Fears of cover-ups or of disinformation campaigns easily slide into full-blown conspiracy theories, and millennial hopes often turn on the dream of a return to direct action, direct, unmediated communication, and simple, authoritative truths imagined as a premodern state of being (Stewart 1999). The transition to advanced capitalist, or neo- or post-Fordist economics (processes of deregulation, privatization, franchise, and differentiation, and a shift from a product economy to a service and information economy) has produced down-sizing, reengineering, volatile markets, corporate mergers, transformations in the relationship between governments and corporations, growing inequality of income and control, and global dependence on huge communications industries (Mellencamp 1992). The new complex, or "flexible," systems are large, diffuse, dynamic networks that are unpredictable and subject to sudden collapse or sudden shifts of control from one part of the system to another (Davis 1998, Martin 1994). Global scale means both unprecedented power and intense vulnerability to disruptions and outbreaks anywhere in the world, giving rise to fears of anarchy, terrorism, scarcity, crime, and overpopulation (R Kaplan 1994). Power and insecurity are expressed in apocalyptic and millennial idioms of breakthroughs and breakdowns, stock market crashes, and a New World Order. Contemporary "risk society" (Beck 1992, 1995) produces alarming worst-case scenarios in the very effort to calculate precise risks in order to insure against them (Buell 1998, Douglas 1985, Lupton 1993). Advertising commodifies both fear and the dream of personal, exceptional safety in selling everything from insurance to schools to cars to high-priced skin creams such as Charles of the Ritz "Disaster Cream," Estee Lauder "Skin Defender Cream," and Golden Door "Crisis Cream" (Mellencamp 1992). A nostalgia for a simple past and the figure of a utopian future are modeled, concretely, in master-planned and gated communities. The figure of a middle class has become a norm or ideal that signals safety, while the poor have dropped out of view except as criminals, spectacular "failures" as individuals, and dangerous urban mobs. Violence and abjection are seen as a contagion, like a virus: Self-control and social containment are the only known vaccine (W Brown 1995, Davis 1998). Brown (1995) argues further that we are seeing changes in the very conditions of democracy, including depoliticized, or naturalized, modes of domination; a state more obviously invested in particular economic interests, political ends, and social formations; the disintegration and fragmentation of forms of association other than those organized by the commodity market and the classificatory schemes of disciplinary society; an unparalleled powerlessness over the fate and direction of one's life coupled with an unrelieved individual responsibility without insulation from failure; and a politics of ressentiment, which takes suffering as a measure of social value. These changes challenge the presumption that there is a public that shares a notion of reality, a concept of reason, and a set of criteria by which claims to reason and rationality are judged (Dean 1998). The ideal of a central public sphere still sometimes animates the dream of a transcendent voice of reason, but it is no longer possible to deny fundamental differences between particular publics and counter-publics based on gender, race, class, sexuality, religion, and myriad other identities and socialities (B Robbins 1993, Gibbs 1996). These publics vie for a more general public voice and legitimacy (Dean 1998) through claims of suffering and heroism. Death, disaster, and impending catastrophe becomes the only thing that can unite a general "public" (Martin 1994), especially when apocalyptic threat is followed by millennial amnesia in the form of dreams of love and freedom achieved and miraculous new beginnings.

Vote AFF to change our risk analysis—[ The role of the ballot is for the judge to stem the tide of neoliberalism’s flow-they should vote affirmative to take a stand against its logic as a prior frame of reference for decision-making]
Roger Tooze 2k, Former Professor – London School of Economics, ‘2K

(Strange Power, Ed. Thomas Lawton, James Rosenau, and Amy Verdun, p. 191-2]jt
From this critical conception of ideology it is clear that the process of neoliberal globalization has gone hand-in-hand with the construction of enabling and supporting intersubjective meanings. The apparent triumph of neoliberal ideology in recent years is, however, the result of a long historical process in which the basic concepts of social life have been defined and constructed in certain ways (see Polanyi 1957). In this historical process even the unquestioned meanings of deeply embedded core social practices, such as what constitutes economic activity, become changed to fit particular interests, but are kept in the realm of what Bourdieu calls ‘dox’ where ‘the natural and social worlds appear as self-evidence’ (Bourdieu 1977: 164; also see MacLean 2000). Hence the purpose of neoliberal ideology is the construction of a sense of reality that the present social structure of global capitalism and the distribution of wealth and power engendered by that social structure is, and should be, natural. That is that the global capitalist society is not the product of power and arbitrariness, but of normal and natural processes that have to be accepted. In this context, the summary argument that Bauman makes regarding neoliberal ideology needs emphasizing here: The point of similarity between the neo-liberal world-view and a typical ‘classic’ ideology is that both serve as a priori frames for all future discourse, setting what is seen apart from what goes unnoticed, awarding or denying relevance, determining the logic of reasoning and the evaluation of results. What, however, makes the neo-liberal world view sharply different from other ideologies – indeed, a phenomenon of a separate class – is precisely the absence of questioning; its surrender to what is seen as the implacable and irreversible logic of social reality. (Bauman 1999: 127) In the ‘natural’ processes of globalization the political goal is to achieve a ‘self-evident’ structure of (global) society in which there is as near as possible a ‘quasi-perfect correspondence between the objective order and the subjective principles of organization’. In order to achieve this, those who wield power must capture the ‘instruments of knowledge of the social world’, as these are political instruments which contribute to the reproduction of the social world by producing immediate adherence to the world, seen as self-evident and undisputed, of which they are the product and of which they reproduce the structures in a transformed form. (Bourdieu 1977: 164) Hence the importance of not allowing epistemology (one of the key instruments of knowledge of the social world’) to be defined as‘given’, as outside the parameters of what we in academic IPE should question. As Strange argued in the last lines of her last piece of writing, ‘although academic debate by itself rarely changes the basic ideas…that at any time dominate the knowledge structure, academic debate when it takes place against a background of growing disillusion, or doubt and uncertainty, can act as a catalyst to action.11 One can only hope that, as in so many other aspects of IPE, she is right.
Specifically, our act of rethinking the congressional agenda to include those forgotten by the current order creates a hot potato that politicizes the entire economic and social order, repoliticizing neoliberalism’s violence, and moving the periphery into the spotlight.
Ulrich Beck 92, Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, British Journal of Sociology Professor at the London School of Economics and Sciences, ’92 (“Risk Society: Towards a New Modernity”, p. 76-77)-Where modernization risks have been ... responsibilities, partially expressly altering them.
Where modernization risks have been 'recognized' - and there is a lot involved in that, not just knowledge, but collective knowledge of them, belief in them, and the political illumination of the associated chains of cause and effect - where this happens the risks develop an incredible political dynamic. They forfeit everything, their latency, their pacifying 'side effect structure", their inevitability. Suddenly the problems are simply there, without justification, as pure, explosive challenges to action. People emerge from behind the conditions and objective constraints. Causes turn into causators and issue statements. 'Side effects' speak up, organize, go to court, assert themselves, refuse to be diverted any longer. As was said, the world has changed. These are the dynamics of reflexive politicization producing risk consciousness and conflict. This does not automatically help to counteract danger, but it opens up previously closed areas and opportunities for action. It produces the sudden melting point of the industrial order, where the unthinkable and unmakeable become possibilities for a short period. What begins to happen here, is of course supposed to be prevented through resisting recognition. This once again throws characteristic light on what is really at stake in the process of recognition for modernization risks. The decisive factor here is not, or at least not only, the health consequences, the consequences for the life of plants, animals and people, but the social, economic and political side effects of these side effects: market collapses, devaluation of capital, creeping expropriation, new responsibilities, market shifts, political pressures, checks on plant deci*sions, recognition of compensation claims, gigantic costs, legal proceedings, and loss of face.
And, the most important determination of ethics is accountability-randomness is inevitable to some degrees, but taking responsibility for violence and injustice is crucial to an effective ethical system
Snyder 97, PROFESSOR AT PRINCETON, 1997 [“INSTITUTIONAL REFORM: AN APPLICATION OF ORGANIZATIONAL THEORY TO REFORM THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY”, DIANE, http://www.fas.org/irp/eprint/snyder/organization.htm]
The problems of hierarchy were mentioned in passing above. These problems received a great deal of attention in the early post-war period leading to a trend away from hierarchical structures (see section on Contemporary Organizational Theory). Ultimately they are problems of accountability and responsibility. It is the foundation of fairness and justice that those who are responsible must be held accountable. This axiom applies equally to organizational theory. In a narrow, tall, pyramidal hierarchy it is hard to keep responsibility and accountability together. Accountability gravitates toward the top managers will be held accountable for performance. Responsibility heads down the chain of command as the executives become increasingly isolated from the substantive activity of their agencies. The problems of asymmetrical information (subordinates have more information than their bosses), moral hazard (subordinates know they will not be held accountable for poor performance so they perform poorly), shirking, and outright subversion become serious. Classical organizational theory failed to account for these tendencies. These unforeseen pathologies in complex hierarchies spurred a move away from classical organizational theory (see section on Problematic Internal Institutional Pathologies for intelligence-specific examples).

Individual Action Alone is Not Enough—the State is Critical to Jumpstart Human Rights Records That Prevent War and Oppression

Burke-White 4 William W., Lecturer, Public and International Affairs and Senior Special Assistant to the Dean, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton University, “Human Rights and National Security: The Strategic Correlation,” THE HARVARD ENVIRONMENTAL LAW REVIEW v. 17, Spring, p. 266-267.
The social beliefs explanation begins from the proposition that individuals within human rights protecting states share a preference for a minimum set of protections of human rights. This assumption is appropriate for two reasons. First, according to liberal political science theory, state policy represents the preferences of some subset of the domestic polity. n100 If the observed state policy is to protect human rights, then at least some subset of the domestic polity must share that preference. Second, even if individuals within a domestic polity seek a variety of differentiated ends, basic respect for human rights allows individuals to pursue--to some degree at least--those ends as they define them. Liberal theory thus suggests that individuals within a human rights respecting state tend to support basic human rights provisions. The next step in the social beliefs argument is to recognize that respect for human rights has an inherently universalist tendency. n101 Unlike cultural or national rights, human rights are just that--human. They apply as much [*267] to those individuals within a domestic polity as to those outside the polity. Such cosmopolitan liberalism indicates that "the more people are free, the better off all are." n102 The net result is that individuals within a human rights respecting state tend, on the average, to support the human rights of individuals in other states as well. Given a set of universalist human rights values in states that respect human rights, the policy articulated by the government may be one which respects human rights at home and demands their protection abroad. This belief in a thin set of universal human rights may cause the leadership of the state to frame its security policy around that belief structure and to refrain from aggressive acts that would violate the human rights of citizens at home or abroad. As Peter Katzenstein argues, "security interests are defined by actors who respond to cultural factors." n103 Acts of international aggression tend to impinge on the human rights of individuals in the target state and, at least temporarily, limit their freedom. After all, bombs, bullets, death and destruction are not consistent with respect for basic human rights. n104 Framed in the liberal international relations theory terms of policy interdependence, international aggression by State A imposes costs on State B, whose citizens' human rights will be infringed upon by the act of aggression. This infringement in turn imposes costs on citizens in State A, whose citizens have a preference for the protection of the human rights of citizens in both states. This shared value of respect for human rights thus may restrain State A from pursuing international aggression. n105 By contrast, a state which commits gross human rights violations against its own people will not be subject to this restraint. Such violations often occur when the government has been "captured" by a select minority that chooses to violate human rights. If the citizens themselves are not in favor of human rights at home, they are unlikely to be committed to the enforcement of human rights abroad. Where capture occurs, the government is not responsive to the preferences of the domestic polity. In such cases, even if there is a strong preference among citizens to protect human rights at home and abroad, the government is unlikely to respond to those interests and its policies will not be constrained by them.


Ignoring the native genocide is a goal for the US to maintain it’s dominance
Barkas 5(Jessica, J.D., Seattle University School of Law “Testing the Bomb: Disparate Impacts on Indigenous Peoples in the American West, the Marshall Islands, and in Kazakhstan” University of Baltimore School of Law Review 2005 Lexis)

The area of nuclear testing is one in which the United States has been very reluctant to compensate victims or admit wrongdoing.n41 Causation is difficult to prove in court, and only limited Congressional action has allowed some victims to overcome sovereign immunity and receive compensation from the government. n42Nuclear testing, particularly atmospheric testing, has some of the widest contamination patterns; exposure to harmful radiation need not occur as a result of living or working near the site. n43 Victims of fallout generally extract no benefit from nuclear test sites. n44In general,fallout stays on the land. n45 It does not wash away in a stream, except by flooding. n46Nor is it practically possible to bulldoze, cap or seal it away. n47 Like liquid rain, it falls indiscriminately on crops, food-gathering areas, grazing land, livestock, and human populations, resulting in multiple exposures to those who depend primarily on the land for food, such as indigenous groups. n48 Test sites are, therefore, chosen for their remote locations and few inhabitants.The American West hosts all of the continental United States' nuclear weapons test sites. n49 However, no consideration was given to the fact that those vast expanses include indigenous communities who inhabit, hunt, forage, and worship on the sites. n50The Eastern and Midwestern United States, while home to appreciable numbers of laboratories and weapons fabrication facilities, do not [*35] have the vast expanses of sparsely populated land available in the West. n51The Nevada Test SiteThe Nevada Test Site (NTS) is the most bombed-out stretch of land on earth. n52Over nine hundred nuclear tests were conducted on and below the site between 1952 and 1992, when a weapons testing moratorium was announced. n53 It is located on land just north of Las Vegas and claimed by the Shoshone under the Treaty of Ruby Valley, although the government continues to describe the area as nearly uninhabited. n54 On its western side is the land of the Western Shoshone; on its east lies the land of the Southern Paiute. n55 Surrounding the NTS are smaller bands, settlements, and reservations of both groups. n56 Also nearby are communities of Utes, Navajo, Hopi, Havasupai, and Hualapai. n57The "nearly uninhabited" land, in reality, is home to over one hundred thousand to the south and east of the NTS. n58The circumstances under which NTS land was withdrawn from Shoshone control demonstrate the government's contempt for indigenous culture and claims to land. The 1863 Treaty of Ruby Valley allowed settlers to travel through Shoshone territory, including what is now the NTS, but did not authorize the removal of Shoshone control, and it did not cede territory to the government. n59 The United States offered the Shoshone $ 26 million for the territory in the 1970s, but the Shoshone have consistently refused the offer to sell. n60 The money was instead accepted by the United States Indian Claims Commission on "behalf" of the Shoshone. n61The Shoshone continue to assert their rights to the NTS land, even going so far as to issue visas that must be presented when entering the area. n62 Western Shoshone such as Carrie Dann continue to protest the theft of the NTS land and the desecration of sacred sites, such as [*36] Yucca Mountain, with nuclear waste repositories. n63Meanwhile, the United States government has continued to further its military aims by consuming thousands of miles of Native American territory with firing ranges, conventional weapons testing sites, and proving grounds. n64Over 620 kilotons of fallout rained on Nevada, Arizona, and Utah, as compared with thirteen kilotons that fell on Hiroshima.It is not surprising, therefore, that increased incidents of thyroid disease, cancer, and birth defects abound. n66 Many of the local inhabitants witnessed the tests firsthand, but were assured by the military that there was no danger. n67 A resident of the Moapa Southern Paiute Reservation described driving to the mountains between the NTS and the reservation to watch the spectacle of nuclear tests. n68 She now suffers thyroid problems. n69 Medical science has known for some time that there is no "safe" dose of radiation, yet the military continued to assure local indigenous groups and other down-winders that no danger would ensue from the testing on the NTS site. n70The 1984 ruling of the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah in Allen v. United States n71 attempted to provide locals with a remedy, holding that those who were not warned of the dangers of fallout were eligible to sue under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). n72 The broad exception to the FTCA, allowing federal agencies to avoid suit if their negligence was the result of "discretionary actions," was found not to apply. n73 The district court, regrettably, was reversed by the Tenth Circuit when it announced it would follow the Supreme Court's holding in United States v. S.A. Empreso de Viacao Aerea Rio Grandense (Varig Airlines):


==1AC Lex== 
===Plan Text=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space by developing a military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, hardening of military satellites, and the deployment of small satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.
===Deterrence=== 
Contention _is Deterrence
Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence –makes a space attack inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 10 –[</span> Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science]
The 11 January 2007<span class="BoldUnderline"> test of a Chinese</span> ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) kinetic-kill interceptor against one of their own defunct weather satellites generated considerable angst across the United States space community. The 2007test demonstrated that the importance of space capabilities is <span class="BoldUnderline">also </span>their Achilles heel, that is, their deadly weakness <span class="BoldUnderline">in spite of overall strength; </span>it is <span class="BoldUnderline">far too </span>easy to neutralize space systems and their power. In the broad strategic context, <span class="BoldUnderline">space capabilities have their own set of unique, inherent </span>vulnerabilities, which are largely the result of orbital mechanics. <span class="BoldUnderline">This </span>invites destruction, <span class="BoldUnderline">damage, and even just mischief delivered by even the least significant adversary</span>. However, <span class="BoldUnderline">other nations may seek to deny U.S. advantages in space through a variety of negation and prevention actions. Negation Threats Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5 Space-based threats proliferate as a result of the ever-growing global availability of technology and access to the space domain. </span>There are huge incentives for states to invest in and use space , <span class="BoldUnderline">and the spread of space technologies has occurred</span>. States with sufficient resources can now reach out to space and ‘‘touch’’ satellites through a variety of means, and achieve one and even more of the five Ds. <span class="BoldUnderline">Spacecraft are vulnerable to direct ascent weapons as demonstrated by the Chinese ASAT test, and to a variety of other groundbased, airborne, and </span>space-based ASAT technologie<span class="BoldUnderline">s</span>. Direct-ascent launched, or orbit-based nuclear devices, can be detonated, generating radiation and other lethal effects to destroy unshielded electronics over a wide lethal range. Co-orbital ASATs could be employed, comparable to the old Soviet system that was tested extensively in the 1970s and early 80s. In a less likely scenario, space-borne mines can also be deployed in close proximity to spacecraft, or exploded to generate debris clouds that destructively engage whole classes of satellites in the same orbital plane or in crossing orbits. Ground, space-based, or airborne lasers could be used by adversaries to wreak havoc. Blinding operations could be executed and inflict effects ranging from temporary ‘‘dazzling’’ to permanent burnout of optical or other sensors with intense energy bursts. Ground systems, supporting communications, and their nodes, are vulnerable to diverse land, sea, or air kinetic attacks, including sabotage. Unprotected systems are also susceptible to electronic attack through jamming and electromagnetic deception techniques. Jammers emit signals that mask or prevent reception of desired signals; these methods can disrupt uplinks, downlinks, and even cross-links. <span class="BoldUnderline">By disabling the means of command and control, and data communications, jammers render satellites inoperable or unavailable. </span>Electromagnetic deception techniques can be employed to confuse systems; this could include sending false, but deceptively plausible, commands that cause spacecraft to perform damaging or wasteful maneuvers, modify databases or execute configuration changes, or otherwise destroy it. Similarly, supporting terrestrial ground stations, computer networks, and links are vulnerable to information operation and cyber attacks. These attacks could involve directing global denial of service tasks, injecting fake commands, malicious software and viruses into the space system, performing unauthorized monitoring and disclosure of sensitive information (data interception), and causing unauthorized modification or deliberate corruption of network information, services, and databases. In sum, there is a wide span of kinetic and other types of attacks an adversary could consider and employ. There is potential that even non-state actors can access some of these technologies and space systems, and achieve several of the five Ds; however, it is unlikely they can obtain and then employ a full-spectrum of these means and achieve all of these effects. Conducting an attack within the space domain involves a rather substantial investment to develop, acquire, operate, and sustain needed shooter, sensor, and command and control systems. Given the scope and commitment needed to affect such a move, an on-orbit attack would probably be made only in the context of a larger strategic struggle, perhaps as a prelude to or part of early combat operations. On the other hand, <span class="BoldUnderline">inexpensive jamming technology is available to even the poorest potential adversaries. As such, jamming poses the most used and growing threat to space systems.</span> Some argue that jamming also carries with it implicit political and legal sanctions since no major space power has moved to ban or make even temporary and reversible jamming illegal. This may change now that a number of nations have banned together to object to recent Iranian satellite jamming.6 Cyber adversaries and criminals are also beginning to hone their craft. They present an evolving threat to space systems; and like jamming, cyber threats can be developed and deployed for only modest investments. Prevention Threats Prevention actions generally involve economic, political, informational, and diplomatic instruments of national power. For example, an extremely large creditor nation could employ its considerable economic clout and leverage in an attempt to compel or blackmail the United States to not license or permit imaging of its territory, preventing its use, and reducing its exposure to such observation. The creditor nation could seek to accomplish its objective by destabilizing the world market place. It could refuse to purchase treasury offerings that underpin the burgeoning U.S. fiscal and trade deficits, perhaps arguing that remote sensing, especially commercial remote sensing, of its territory infringes on its territorial and sovereign rights, or that it constitutes ‘‘unlawful’’ industrial espionage, and is thus, an unfair trade practice.7 Commercial remote sensing systems are nowan important resource for the United States Government and its national security needs. U.S. Government orders help sustain and stabilize the remote sensing industry,8 and any limitations on activities, whether for U.S. Government customers or commercial ones, imposed in response to external economic threats could evolve to cause problems. In an alternative scenario, a state, acting through political allies and proxies, could exert considerable influence and dominance to affect a change in U.S. law. This change could restrict licensing of commercial remote sensing imagery, restricting the market place and impacting business models for producers.9 As a diplomatic prevention example, adversaries could attempt to use international forums and treaties to deny frequency rights needed by U.S. military or intelligence satellites by making spurious ‘‘paper satellite’’ filings with the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). ‘‘Paper satellites’’ involve ITU applications for satellite orbital slots, many for ‘‘speculative’’ systems that will never leave Earth. These filings can block access to scarce spectrum and orbital resources.10 The ability to place communications and other satellites in geosynchronous orbit (GEO) positions could be held at risk. Some characterize some of these types of actions as a form of ‘‘lawfare.’’ ‘‘The term lawfare describes the growing use of international law claims, usually factually or legally meritless, as a tool of war. The goal is to gain a moral advantage over your enemy in the court of world opinion, and potentially a legal advantage in national and international tribunals.’’11 Prevention actions taken to hobble U.S. space systems are not armed attacks. As is discussed later, the use of force is only authorized under the United Nations (UN) Charter in response to an armed attack, or upon authorization of the UN Security Council. As such, using armed force to deter and defeat prevention actions involving political or diplomatic subterfuge or intrigue may be unlawful under international law. Creative alternative solutions must therefore be found to assure access to space when facing these types of threats. Implications for U.S. Space Strategy <span class="BoldUnderline">The wide span of threats poses profound implications for U.S. space strategy and its execution</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">First</span>, <span class="BoldUnderline">unlike the Cold War era, t</span>he U<span class="BoldUnderline">nited </span>S<span class="BoldUnderline">tates now </span>confronts <span class="BoldUnderline">a wide array of </span>global actors, <span class="BoldUnderline">all </span>operating with different motivations and incentives, some of which could become potential adversaries who can attack or threaten space capabilities. <span class="BoldUnderline">These state and non-state adversaries exhibit a wide array of political, economic, technical, and social differences</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">Having many potential adversaries makes each of them harder to understand</span>. This complicates efforts to understand motivations <span class="BoldUnderline">and to influence perceptions for deterrence purposes.</span> These differences<span class="BoldUnderline">, in turn, </span>increase the likelihood of misperceptio<span class="BoldUnderline">n, undercutting strategies to protect access to space capabilities</span>. When one’s attention is divided, deterrent measures that are appropriate for one target may not be useful, or even counterproductive, for another. This requires tailored intelligence efforts, information operations, and transparency efforts in order to avoid or minimize disputes and prevent problems. Second, the broad array of adversaries exhibit widely varying risk-taking behaviors. Risk-taking behavior can strongly influence an adversary’s perception of a situation. Understanding this phenomenon can lead to better ways of influencing those perceptions. Unfortunately, potentialadversaries may not care that space systems offer tremendous value and capabilities to all nations,or care whether conflict in space could create space debris that could cost all nations access to the domain. A strategy to assure continuing access to space assets must therefore be sufficiently flexible to address both risk-averse and risk-taking adversaries. Indeed, potential adversaries may shift from risk-taking to risk-adverse over a relatively short period of time. China<span class="BoldUnderline"> may </span>fit in this category. Within a decade or two, it will have its own extensive space-based communications, navigation, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellite constellations, all of which will be integrated into its military operations. No doubt, China will embrace that evolution and become very reliant on space capabilities; this will shift it from an asymmetric competitor to one similar to the United States or Russia. Third, with the demise of the Soviet Union, some political commentators and critics described the United States as a ‘‘hyperpower’’ not just a ‘‘superpower.’’ 12 <span class="BoldUnderline">Though buffeted by recent events involving Iraq, Afghanistan, the Global War on Terror, and the 2008 global financial meltdown, U.S. military supremacy continues.</span> But, <span class="BoldUnderline">that supremacy does not make or guarantee a successful space strategy. Adversaries may believe they have a higher stake than the U</span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline">States in the outcome of a particular crisis or conflict</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">Alternatively, the United States stake in the crisis may not be commensurate with the possible cost of involvement by the United States military and the rest of its national security apparatus. The first alternative may encourage mischief by adversaries; the second discourages U.S. action. As a result, </span>adversaries may find threats of U.S. action in response to hostile acts affecting U.S. access to space systems to be non-credible. Fourth, <span class="BoldUnderline">while </span>the U<span class="BoldUnderline">nited </span>S<span class="BoldUnderline">tates </span>has<span class="BoldUnderline"> produced superlative space capabilities, it has </span>not produced enough systems ready to survive the new kinetic, exotic, jamming, and cyber threat environment<span class="BoldUnderline">.</span> The vulnerability exists because the spacecraft developed and deployed today are in many ways the same as those originally fielded during the Cold War. During that epic struggle, there was a tacit and then explicit understanding that each superpower would not attack and overwhelm the other’s space systems, except in the dire st of circumstances, perhaps during the throes of a nuclear conflagration. Indeed, a number of agreements between the superpowers adopted the understanding and ruled out interference with national technical means, including space assets. <span class="BoldUnderline">This belief in the superiority of space systems and power blinds the United States to the inherent strategic weaknesses and vulnerabilities in these systems</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">This,</span> predictably, <span class="BoldUnderline">can now be exploited by potential adversaries, such as China, who, with their recent ASAT test, appear more willing to fully explore the technologies needed to expand the limits of conventional war to include the space domain</span>. Consequently, by historically and diplomatically reducing the threat, engineering of some satellite threat detection, attack avoidance, and other defense subsystems have not matured enough so that they are sophisticated, nimble, and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.

Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel, 8</span> – [Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science]

The PLA is exploring<span class="BoldUnderline"> in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research </span>a variety of <span class="BoldUnderline">forms of </span>space weapons<span class="BoldUnderline">.77 </span>These include:
. satellite jamming <span class="BoldUnderline">technology;</span>
<span class="BoldUnderline">. collisions between space bodies;</span>
. kinetic energy weapons;
<span class="BoldUnderline">. space-to-ground attack weapons;</span>
<span class="BoldUnderline">. space planes</span> that can transit and fight ‘‘up or down’’ in the upper atmosphere or space;
<span class="BoldUnderline">. high-power </span>laser <span class="BoldUnderline">weapons;</span>
<span class="BoldUnderline">. high-power </span>microwave<span class="BoldUnderline"> weapon systems</span>;
. particle-beam<span class="BoldUnderline"> weapons; and</span>
. electromagnetic pulse<span class="BoldUnderline">.78</span>
PLA authors credit the U.S. with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy. <span class="BoldUnderline">The PLA does have various forms of jamming capability, and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies.</span> The dilemma here for the military theorists or planner in the U.S., is that this is really space science and rocket science. Although Chinese military theory, basic research, and applied research into these areas are transparent, the successes or weapons systems that may become formal programs are not transparent. Regardless of whether the algorithms are correct or not<span class="BoldUnderline">, it is clear that </span>the PLA is serious about space warfare<span class="BoldUnderline">. The destruction of their own weather satellite and the </span>blinding of a U.S. satellite mean<span class="BoldUnderline"> they are </span>achieving<span class="BoldUnderline"> some </span>success.PLA theorists think that internal lines of communication are most favorable for successful military operations, whether the offense, defense, or maintaining a logistics chain.79 They see internal lines as superior to the conduct of military operations on external lines.80 The Chinese<span class="BoldUnderline"> see their regional position in Asia as superior to that of the U.S. because the U.S. has to fight, communicate, and re-supply along extended exterior lines, while China enjoys interior lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that in a conflict, they </span>would<span class="BoldUnderline"> probably </span>use their jamming and antisatellite systems to disrupt American lines of communication, command and control, situational awareness, <span class="BoldUnderline">and efforts at coordination at the extended ranges of military conflict for the U.</span>S.81 One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do, therefore, would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide the global, real time sensor and communications capabilities for network centric operations. The PLA believes that the U.S. is heavily dependent on its satellite systems, more dependent than the PLA. That is changing, however. As the PLA modernizes its own Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4SIR) systems, <span class="BoldUnderline">it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the U.S. Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, </span>the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other’s military operations. Space warfare will likely become an integral part of traditional conflict. The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One problem that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing. That is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or war planning sphere thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, an incident could quickly escalate <span class="BoldUnderline">and get out of control,</span> leading to an exchange of weapons<span class="BoldUnderline"> or a deeper crisis. </span>For example, <span class="BoldUnderline">four officers from the PLA’s Second Artillery Command College,</span> in Wuhan, <span class="BoldUnderline">have published an analysis of how to jam or destroy the space-based ballistic missile advanced warning systems of the U.S</span>.82 <span style="font-size: 5pt;">In their article, the officers note, ‘‘a space borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars.’’83 They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S. Defense Support Program (DSP) early warning satellites, including the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. The authors discuss how to destroy the U.S. DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons.84 They also have a discussion of how to jam the satellites, their satellite-to-ground transmissions, or to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack.85 In their conclusion, the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the U.S. from launching a large scale military attack or intervention aimed at China’s own military operations on its southeast coast, i.e., to intervene in Chinese military operations against Taiwan.86 Their view is that ‘‘destroying and jamming space borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help us [the PRC] win the war in space.’’87 The PLA is also aware of the most advanced U.S. synthetic aperture radar imaging systems and are thinking through how to neutralize or jam them.88</span> <span class="BoldUnderline">The problem in this reasoning is that there is no consideration given to a likely American reaction to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by </span>the U.S. is that it might well think it is coming under immediate attack and launch its own strike <span class="BoldUnderline">against China’s strategic missile forces</span>. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Another reasonable reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground based laser or direct ascent launch. Even if such a reaction by the U.S. used conventional weapons, the PLA may find it has created a deeper crisis that led to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists, like Cai, advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. </span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 5pt;">Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to U.S. Air Force Space Command manual</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> AFM 2–2.1, Space Warfare and Countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of ‘‘space deterrence’’ to counter American space superiority. 89 For Huang, this shift toward space deterrence mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.90 Huang defines this as ‘‘the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent’s space power to deter that opponent in a practical way.’’91 The goal of this concept of deterrence is to increase the PLA’s power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary’s power.92 The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one’s own economic, military, and science and technology power to ‘‘ruin an opponent’s economy and ability to function in space.’’93 The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the 11 January 2007 destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA’s own direct ascent kill vehicle is clear when interpreted through this concept of demonstrating space deterrence.94 As Huang concedes, for a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability. A deterrent must be demonstrated. It is also important to note that effective space deterrence, as conceived by this writer, includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4SIR systems. In the future, there could be other examples of space deterrence to let the U.S. and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. The PLA could demonstrate various forms of jamming. In doing so, the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Chinese journals do discuss maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to accidental collisions between space bodies. China could deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they still would demonstrate a space deterrent capability. Conclusions There are a number of important findings to this research effort. First,</span> in th`e event of conflict<span class="BoldUnderline"> with the PLA, </span>military operations carried out across all the domains of wa<span class="BoldUnderline">r, ground, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum, or information- and cyber-warfare, </span>are likely. <span class="BoldUnderline">Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated cyber or information attack on an enemy’s knowledge and command systems</span>. Second, there will probably be strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise, in any future conflict between China and the U.S. Prior to direct conflict, the PLA and the Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions by conducting what it calls legal warfare.95 Third, the concept of legal warfare will be applied by the PRC Foreign Ministry, the security services, Chinese Communist Party liaison Department, and the PLA to exploit political divisions in the U.S. over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems. Fourth, the PLA will seek to exercise space control in a limited area of conflict. The PLA will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of commons in space, over 100,000 m, in peacetime. If direct conflict breaks out, altitude limits on space control are off, and any systems carrying adversary military traffic or signals are probably fair game for the PLA. U.S. Navy Secretary Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August 2007, said that the U.S. still wants to understand what the Chinese intention is in its military modernization.96 This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions<span class="BoldUnderline">. There are a number of China’s activities and policy positions coming from Beijing that make it hard to interpret Chinese intent. Among these are: China’s expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of armed force to reinforce these claims;97 the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space</span> <span style="font-size: 5pt;">outlined in this paper; and the shaping of the ‘‘space battlefield’’ with legal arguments that would justify China’s actions to prevent space observation over its territory. The U.S. has taken a course with China that is far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach with the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Both states are heavily involved in trade, economic, and political engagements with each other. Nonetheless, both states are wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and there exist some deep fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. The U.S. and the Soviet Union seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other’s free passage in space. Also, they agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance</span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span><span class="BoldUnderline"> No</span> such <span class="BoldUnderline">dialogue has taken place with China. The PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. Often, senior military or Chinese Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a cold war mentality</span>.98 Yet discussions on these issues are important to clarify the rationales for America’s positions on space and serve as threat reduction measures. Although China’s intentions are not fully known, they can be inferred from Chinese actions, like <span class="BoldUnderline">the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its own weather satellite as a demonstration of capability</span>. PRC intentions can also be inferred from judicious reviews of its military literature. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its military literature<span class="BoldUnderline">, it is clear that China’s leaders are preparing as though they may have to fight the U.S</span>. To this end, <span class="BoldUnderline">the PLA is busily preparing the space battlefield in advance with legal arguments, as called for in its doctrine. As a result, there are very sound reasons to prepare to defend American interests in space, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict.</span>

China is preparing to bring down U.S space assets—they have incentives to attack
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daily Tech 11-17</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-11-[Gov't Report Warns of Chinese Plans to Cripple U.S. Space Defenses Jason Mick - November 17, 2011 7:13 PM </span>[[http://www.dailytech.com/Govt+Report+Warns+of+Chinese+Plans+to+Cripple+US+Space+Defenses/article23314.htm]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]jt</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">III. Chinese Counterspace: Kryptonite to U.S. Military Space Edge</span>
China still weaker than the U.S. in space logistical capabilities<span class="BoldUnderline">(communications, surveillance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, etc.), </span><span class="BoldUnderline">according to the expert panel: Despite pockets of considerable capabilities, China has weak or moderate military space capabilities in other areas</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. China has few communications satellites available for military purposes, even assuming that the PLA would appropriate Chinese government-controlled assets during a crisis. That weakness could be lessened given its reliance on low-bandwidth devices and its strong underground internet cable network in local conflicts: Many PLA military platforms have modest bandwidth requirements, which, when combined with the PLA’s heavy reliance on buried fiber-optic military communications networks, may offset this disadvantage in the context of a potential, near-term U.S.-China contingency on China’s periphery. But at present, the nation would be at a disadvantage in long range conflicts with the U.S.: However, naval forces at sea and ground forces operating outside the Chinese mainland (even as close as Taiwan) would still require secure, mobile communications for military functions such as command and control. The report suggests </span>China may invest in new<span class="BoldUnderline"> satellite or drone </span>capabilities to remedy that weakness<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">In the near term,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> though the </span>U.S.'s advantage could be negated by China's<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> cyberprowess and </span><span class="BoldUnderline">investigation into "</span>hard" counterspace options<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (pg. 218): </span>China<span class="BoldUnderline">'s counterspace programs </span>seek the capability to<span class="BoldUnderline"> compromise, disrupt, </span>deny, degrade,<span class="BoldUnderline"> deceive, </span>or destroy U.S. space assets<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>These efforts<span class="BoldUnderline"> could </span>prevent <span class="BoldUnderline">the </span>U.S. military’s use of space for <span class="BoldUnderline">functions such as </span>communications; intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance;<span class="BoldUnderline"> and </span>guided weapons applications<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">This opinion is reinforced with quotes from top military leaders (pg. 218): Notwithstanding China’s increasing reliance on space for military and civil purposes, </span>Chinese military planners still view space assets as an attractive target<span class="BoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ambassador Schulte testified that with "geography the way it is, we are probably always going to find ourselves more reliant on space than [China] . . . so for the foreseeable future, that’s an asymmetry they’re going to look to exploit as they pursue an antiaccess/area denial approach." According to General Deptula, "</span>Continued Chinese investment<span class="BoldUnderline"> in the design, development, deployment and employment of space and counterspace systems </span>will<span class="BoldUnderline"> increasingly </span>challenge our<span class="BoldUnderline"> traditional </span>space dominance<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and could dramatically reduce our freedom of action in the event of a conflict in the region." </span>The report points to China preparing a<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> two pronged approach to </span>attack the U.S.'s space capabilties<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The first approach is to use<span class="BoldUnderline"> traditional attacks like </span>missiles or orbitters to physically assault<span class="BoldUnderline"> enemy </span>satellites<span class="BoldUnderline"> (the so-called "hard" attack)</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A second "soft" attack approach involves instead using cyberattacks to cripple or interfere with foreign satellites. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">China could bring the </span>U<span class="BoldUnderline">.S. "down to its level"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> technologically </span><span class="BoldUnderline">with targeted counterspace strikes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Image Source: U.S. Air Force] On the hybrid hard-attack/soft-attack approach, the authors state (pg. 216): Chinese military theorists take a holistic view of counterspace operations. </span>They advocate for<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the use of both "soft" kill (i.e., informational, temporary, or reversible) attacks and </span><span class="BoldUnderline">"</span>hard"kill<span class="BoldUnderline"> (i.e., destructive or permanently disabling) </span>attacks against<span class="BoldUnderline">every</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> aspect of space power: ground-based systems, </span>space-based systems<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and communications links. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">In other words, China is actively preparing redundant options to bring the U.S. down to its level in terms of space combat readiness. </span>

Lack of knowledge about the PLA, internal docs and new dual use capabilities mean we have to assume the worst- even the CCP indicates intent to weaponize space
The Space Review, 10/31 (Danny Houpt for the Space Review, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program” on October 31, 2011 from [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1]], )

Military space missions Little is known about the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) actual capability to wage war in space. What has been demonstrated, however, including the 2007 ASAT<span style="color: green;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/2|test]]</span>and reports of China blinding US intelligence satellites, has caused much consternation across the world. One aspect of Chinese military aspirations in space that has been studied is the internal publications of the PLA and its stated views on space doctrine. Increasingly, these writings have accepted the inevitability of the weaponization of space and called for appropriate preparations to be made to successfully wage war in space. Given the dual-use nature of most space technology, it is no surprise that China’s military uses of space are advancing commensurately with its civilian and commercial programs. First of all, China is widely known to have an array of intelligence satellites for space reconnaissance and surveillance. The Ziyuan Earth observation satellite is known to be one of these, but China has also fielded the Fanhui Shi Weixing, or Retrievable Satellite, which drops canisters of film from space.15 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">China’s ongoing microsatellite program has sparked some of the most concern abroad. Aside from intelligence satellites, microsatellites have many potential offensive uses such as maneuvering in range of an adversary’s satellite and either latching on—a “parasitic microsat”—to disrupt proper functions, or merely exploding within range of a target satellite to destroy it. Furthermore, the ability to deploy a constellation of microsatellites on short notice, a capability China may already possess with its Kaituozhe launch<span style="color: green;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/2|vehicle]]</span>, denies the deterrence factor that could otherwise prevent offensive attacks on an adversary’s space assets for fear of retaliation.</span> China’s rocket technology also has proven offensive military use in space: the ability to shoot down enemy assets in space through direct ascent attacks. China demonstrated such ability in 2007, which has been the impetus for much of the recent speculation about China’s military space aspirations. Despite political blowback from this test (it resulted in a 20 percent increase in the total amount of trackable space debris in low Earth orbit), China may still be pursuing ASAT technologies.16In January 2010 China conducted a successful test of its ground-based midcourse missile interception technology. This test used technology similar to its 2007 ASAT test and, as exemplified by the US Navy-led Operation Burnt Frost that intercepted the satellite USA 193, missile defense technology can serve ASAT ends. In addition to these hard-kill capabilities, China has the capability to use soft-kill measures to neutralize adversary’s space assets. China is known to have the means to jam satellite communication and GPS receivers and is developing directed energy ASATs, including high-powered microwave and particle beam weapons.17The US Department of Defense (DoD), in their annual report to Congress on China’s military modernization, also notes that China is developing ground-based laser ASATs, the beginnings of which may have already been demonstrated. In 2006 the director of the National Reconnaissance Office, Donald Kerr, substantiated reports that China used a ground-based laser to dazzle a US spy satellite over its territory. Although this laser could not do any long-term damage, similar techniques and capabilities used to track and dazzle this satellite could be coupled with more powerful ground-based lasers to destroy space assets. Some reports actually indicate China has already tested and deployed a ground-based ASAT laser that can target assets in LEO.18 Despite the array of activity the PLA conducts in and through space, they seem to lack a specific doctrine for the employment of their space capabilities and have not made public any substantial plans for military uses of space. In lieu of a formal declaration on space, there is a growing literature from within the PLA ranks that may be forming the basis for what later becomes stated—or unstated—PLA space doctrine. These authors generally hold the same assumptions about space, including the inevitability that space will be a domain of war in the future.19Many also acknowledge that establishing space dominance will be crucial to fully exploiting wartime necessities such as control of airspace and secure command and control.20 Three internal Chinese sources are largely cited as being the defining PLA space doctrine writings://Space War//by Colonel Li Daguang;//On Space Operations//by Colonel Jia Junming; and//Joint Space War Campaigns//by Colonel Yuan Zelu.21Colonel Li highlights many specific recommendations to develop the PLA’s space fighting capabilities, including fielding offensive capabilities capable of “destroying or temporarily incapacitating all enemy space vehicles that fly in space above our sovereign territory.” Other recommendations include focusing development on land-based anti-satellite weapons and anti-satellite satellites as well as “assassin’s mace” space weapons that could deal a crippling blow to an enemy. Particularly important to foreign perceptions of China, these writings also call for China to combine military and civilian technology and integrate peacetime and wartime facilities. Other authors on the subject promote such actions as: fielding sea-launched anti-satellite weapons, attacking GPS with high energy laser weapons, fielding stealthy space satellites and weapons, and seeking the ability to attack terrestrial targets from space. Kevin Pollpeter, summing up the view of most Chinese authors writing on the subject, writes, “The development of space technology will inevitably lead to the militarization of space and space militarization will lead to confrontation in space. As the struggle over air and space control is becoming the new focal point of war, space will become the main battlefield of future wars.”22Pollpeter also notes that throughout his extensive review of Chinese space writings, there were no rebuttals to the view that China will inevitability develop and use counterspace weapons. These views also seem to be held by some in the upper echelons of the PLA. In November 2009, PLA Air Force (PLAAF) commander Xu Qiliang stated in an interview with the PLA Daily newspaper, an official government publication, that the militarization of space is a “historical inevitability” and called on the PLAAF to develop offensive and defensive capabilities in space.23Xu is not only the head of the PLAAF, but as of 2007 was a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (CCCP) and a member of the Central Military Commission (CMC)—two primary policy decision making bodies in China. The Foreign Ministry tried to backtrack on Xu’s comments days later by reiterating that China has “all along upheld the peaceful use of outer space,” and would not be part of a space arms race.24However, Xu did not personally retract his statements and, given his elite government position, this interview could actually be exemplary of how some of China’s top official’s views space. Indeed, there is some indication the CCCP acknowledges the need to prepare for the weaponization of space. In December 2010, the official publication of the CCCP, the Qiushi Journal, on its website released an article that spoke to China’s perspectives on space war: China's missiles can directly attack the military satellites, which usually orbit at an altitude less than 10,000 kilometers...China should make efforts to develop space weapons as soon as possible, as this is the most effective military means of attacking the U.S. If we can eventually fire missiles from a satellite, the U.S. will find that it has nowhere to hide; it will find itself entirely exposed to the attack radius of Chinese weaponry…Vigorously strengthening the building of our space military forces should be not only the focus of our national defense, but also the most powerful weapon to deter U.S. military blackmail.25 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">After the article was translated into English, the original Chinese version was altered to state that the views were those of the authors only. In a society well versed in controlling media and hiding military intentions,</span> it is interesting the Chinese government is allowing these and other perspectives to be published containing such inflammatory language on space warfare. This suggests that perhaps the views are not condemned or are being floated as trial balloons to gauge foreign response.
The risk of crisis instability and miscalc is high – the PLA is isolated from the Chinese government
<span class="AuthorDate">MacDonald 11</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">–[ Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis]</span>
<span class="BoldUnderline">One characteristic of too many wars </span>in the last century is <span class="BoldUnderline">that they </span>arethe result of miscalculation<span class="BoldUnderline"> that ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers</span>. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, <span class="BoldUnderline">the PLA's senior officer corps trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They have much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. This means that the PLA overall views world events from a less knowledgeable and sophisticated perspective, a danger in this increasingly complex world, and could explain</span>, for example, the political "tonedeafness" of the PLA in the manner they conducted <span class="BoldUnderline">their 2007 ASAT test. This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that </span>the PLA is organizationally separate from the rest of the Chinese government<span class="BoldUnderline">, and reports only to the Central Military Commission,</span> currently chaired by President Hu Jintao. President Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background, and <span class="BoldUnderline">the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that </span>civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. governmen<span class="BoldUnderline">t. Normally this would not be too great a concern,</span> but in a crisis this could be dangerous<span class="BoldUnderline">. Add to this the fact that </span>China has no equivalent of our N<span class="BoldUnderline">ationa</span>l S<span class="BoldUnderline">ecurity</span> Council,<span class="BoldUnderline"> a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking, and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure</span>. In a crisis, the PLA<span class="BoldUnderline"> probably </span>cannot be counted on to show<span class="BoldUnderline"> as </span>sophisticated<span class="BoldUnderline"> a sense of </span>judgment<span class="BoldUnderline"> as one would hope any country's military leaders, even an enemy's, to show. All these problems and many more pose potential threats to internal political stability and Communist Party control, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead</span>. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space Space asset<span class="BoldUnderline">s</span>, and the communications and cyber links that enable them to function, <span class="BoldUnderline">are the means by which essential national security information is either generated, transmitted, or both. This information is the lifeblood of U.S. conventional military superiority and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture as well</span>. As such, <span class="BoldUnderline">these space related assets represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict, and </span>their<span class="BoldUnderline"> relative </span>vulnerability can provide<span class="BoldUnderline"> dangerously attractive </span>incentives<span class="BoldUnderline"> in a crisis </span>to preempt, escalating to war. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise:going first<span class="BoldUnderline"> in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary </span>appears to offer <span class="BoldUnderline">many </span>advantages<span class="BoldUnderline">, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable.</span> As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase<span class="BoldUnderline">, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems.</span> Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that <span class="BoldUnderline">the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies</span>. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space <span class="BoldUnderline">when "going first" pays off - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours. We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but </span>the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.

That crushes deterrence and risks miscalc and nuclear escalation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 6</span> – [Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services; </span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the US homeland or an attack </span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, </span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.44Although a major attack on the US is not likely, </span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a devastating miscalculationthat the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also weakens conventional deterrence</span><span class="BoldUnderline">. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, </span>the Chinese<span class="BoldUnderline"> might seek to disrupt or </span>destroy<span class="BoldUnderline"> regional </span>space capabilities<span class="BoldUnderline"> as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a fait accompli</span>.45 A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49 The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “<span class="BoldUnderline">Space capabilities</span> are no longer nice to have, but <span class="BoldUnderline">are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars</span>.”51 <span class="BoldUnderline">The</span> failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets.The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52 Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives. The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, <span class="BoldUnderline">successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets</span> in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. <span class="BoldUnderline">A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces</span>. Satellite communication<span class="BoldUnderline"> links to worldwide deployed forces</span> are critical <span class="BoldUnderline">capabilities</span> in protecting <span class="BoldUnderline">US </span>security,<span class="BoldUnderline"> sovereignty, and military combat capability. </span>The inability to detect <span class="BoldUnderline">and assess </span>space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems<span class="BoldUnderline"> or conduct probing attacks on US space systems</span> without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55Today, <span class="BoldUnderline">other </span>nations are working to <span class="BoldUnderline">develop new weapons to </span>counter<span class="BoldUnderline"> US </span>dominance and <span class="BoldUnderline">to </span>take the lead<span class="BoldUnderline"> in</span> what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—<span class="BoldUnderline">information war</span>. The current <span class="BoldUnderline">coverage gaps in our space surveillance network</span>, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset <span class="BoldUnderline">makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons </span>without our knowledge. Finally, <span class="BoldUnderline">without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy</span> to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is <span class="BoldUnderline">to deter an attack on US space assets</span>. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. <span class="BoldUnderline">A senior officer in US Strat</span>egic <span class="BoldUnderline">Com</span>mand recently <span class="BoldUnderline">stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution</span>.57

Even rogue states could take out US assets
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith, 11</span> – [USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]

Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute of the dominant powers in the world today<span class="BoldUnderline">. Special attention must be paid to so-called </span>rogue states<span class="BoldUnderline"> that </span>have access to space-related technology<span class="BoldUnderline"> and may even be spacefaring but do not have the conventional forces to achieve their policy aims.</span> Those aims tend to be very intense, and <span class="BoldUnderline">these players </span>may seek space weapons as an asymmetric hedge against spacefaring adversaries who may try to coerce them. The dominant military powers in the world, some of whom are potential adversaries, also tend to be the dominant spacefaring states. <span class="BoldUnderline">Because of the economic benefits and exponential enhancements that spacepower delivers to terrestrial warfighting, those </span>states <span class="BoldUnderline">are under increasing pressure to defend their space systems and to counter those of their potential adversaries. </span>This may lead to a space weapons race and an immediate escalation of hostilities to "wipe the skies" of enemy satellites <span class="BoldUnderline">should war break out between two or more dominant military space powers</span>.29 When assessing the interplay between the spectrum of conflict and the spectrum of belligerents, it may be the case that war between two weak actors will not likely extend into space. However, if the power is perceived to be disparate, a weak actor is far more likely to use space weapons against a powerful state as an asymmetric defensive mov<span class="BoldUnderline">e</span>.30 A powerful state may counter the space systems in use by a weaker adversary, but it is likely to do so by placing diplomatic pressure on commercial vendors, or executing attacks on their ground stations, or launching highly selective covert attacks on the satellites they use by employing temporary and reversible means. Should two<span class="BoldUnderline"> dominant </span>spacefaring powers go directly to war<span class="BoldUnderline"> with each other with intense motives, </span>both will find it critical to preserve their space system<span class="BoldUnderline">s and will consider it a dangerous liability to allow their enemy to exploit theirs. Given the ability of spacepower to cut the fog and friction of war while connecting military forces at the tactical, operational, and strategic level, it is likely that </span>space systems will be primary targets<span class="BoldUnderline"> that will be negated in the opening moves of war.</span> The fight for space is likely to be intense and brief. Temporary means of negation will likely switch to permanent methods of destruction to remove doubt in the minds of commanders.

Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marshall 8</span> –[ NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A
MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science]

Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’ of the current military capability of the U<span class="BoldUnderline">nited </span>S<span class="BoldUnderline">tates (U.S</span>.). This is for two reasons: (<span class="BoldUnderline">1) the </span>U.S. military space systems<span class="BoldUnderline">—in particular reconnaissance, navigation, </span>signals intelligence, early warning, and communications systems—are critical to modern military warfare and intelligen<span class="BoldUnderline">ce; and (2) </span>space systems are inherently vulnerable to attack<span class="BoldUnderline">. This combination is understood at the highest levels and was espoused in the ‘‘Rumsfeld Space Commission’’ with talk of a ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor.’</span>’1 Whether one agrees with the tone<span class="BoldUnderline">, this is a genuine security problem for the U.S. in need of a near-term solution</span>. While there have been numerous papers, and much media and academic attention, in the space security discussion focused on promoting or criticizing space-based weapons,2 there have been far fewer papers and studies offering constructive ways forward that deal with these genuine security concerns in a broader sense.3 The central motivation for this paper is to put forward one key element—the satellite architecture—in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of U.S. space assets. It is hoped that this idea, together with others like it, should stimulate and contribute to a debate on more constructive ways forward for how to achieve space security in the post-Cold war world. Importance of Space Assets For better or worse, <span class="BoldUnderline">it is clear that the </span>U.S.<span class="BoldUnderline"> military is to some significant extent dependent on its key satellites, </span>which number about 86–105 operational satellites at present. <span class="BoldUnderline">These </span>satellites constitute a significant part of the eyes, ears, and central nervous system of the modern military<span class="BoldUnderline">.4 A practical example that helps to illustrate this is </span>the case of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq<span class="BoldUnderline"> in 2003. First, </span>the decision to go was based in part on satellite imagery and<span class="BoldUnderline"> signals </span>intelligence<span class="BoldUnderline"> from satellites; whether or not it was interpreted or used correctly is a separate issue. Second, the planning and operation were facilitated by satellite imagery. Third, </span>many planes, ships, tanks, and units’ positions were known through<span class="BoldUnderline"> Global Positioning System (</span>GPS) satellites<span class="BoldUnderline">, and even most munitions were guided by GPS. Fourth, the operation was commanded from the U.S. in large part through the use of communications satellites</span>. Perhaps more importantly than any of the functions in the Iraq example, early warning (EW) satellites are the U.S.’s and Russia’s first warning of nuclear missile attack<span class="BoldUnderline">.</span> As Gray classified, <span class="BoldUnderline">space assets have moved from being ‘‘useful and </span>important’’ to an ‘‘indispensable adjunct’’ in the military <span class="BoldUnderline">over the last decade</span>.5 Space assets are definitely used a great deal by the U.S. military, but that does not mean necessarily as strong a dependence as Gray implies. The loss of U.S. space assets could range in its effect anywhere from a loss to the U.S. military in practical operations, to be<span class="BoldUnderline">ing </span>catastrophic to U.S. security<span class="BoldUnderline">. The former would entail a reduction in operational effectiveness or speed, but fundamentally supposes that back-up systems and/or redundancy allow a near continuation of military capability. </span>The<span class="BoldUnderline"> latter </span>scenario would entail an effective disablement of the U.S. military capability<span class="BoldUnderline"> from normal operations. </span>In reality, the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.

Heg solves conflict, trade, and cooperation
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Zhang* and Shi</span> 11-[__<span class="Underline">Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) </span>[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]]

<span class="Underline">Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">Over the past two decades, </span>no other state has had the ability to<span class="BoldUnderline"> seriously </span>challenge the US<span class="BoldUnderline"> military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, </span>many actors<span class="BoldUnderline"> have </span>bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role<span class="BoldUnderline">. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a </span>status quo<span class="BoldUnderline"> that </span>has tended to mute great power conflicts.<span class="BoldUnderline"> However, </span>as the hegemony<span class="BoldUnderline"> that drew these powers together </span>withers<span class="BoldUnderline">, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. </span>The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse<span class="BoldUnderline">, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and </span>conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid<span class="BoldUnderline">. As history attests, </span>power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation<span class="BoldUnderline">. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves</span><span class="Underline">.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that </span>America’s authority<span class="BoldUnderline">, although sullied at times, has </span>benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe<span class="BoldUnderline">, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that </span>a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of<span class="BoldUnderline"> the 1930s: </span>regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry<span class="BoldUnderline">. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example</span>, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders<span class="Underline">. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive</span><span class="BoldUnderline">. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world </span>without American<span class="BoldUnderline"> hegemony is one where </span>great power wars re-emerge, the liberal<span class="BoldUnderline"> international </span>system is supplanted by an authoritarian one<span class="BoldUnderline">, and </span>trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers<span class="BoldUnderline">. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>

Commitment to ORS is vital to deterrence by denial – it will prevent attacks against US space assets
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sejba 10</span> – [USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]

The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,” no longer is a sanctuary outside the reach of foreign intervention. <span class="BoldUnderline">The threat to space systems and their capabilities is broad, ranging from reversible effects such as jamming or blinding, to more destructive means such as anti-satellite weapons. It is now time to take actions for the sake of space, and assure its continued contributions across the full spectrum of military operations. Given the criticality of space to not only our military power, but also our economic power, it is time we develop policies and field capabilities to deter future adversaries from attempting to degrade, deny, or destroy space capabilities and services.</span> The asymmetric advantages enabled by space can no longer be assumed and as a result, <span class="BoldUnderline">a new National Security Strategy for space must be forged, one that combines deterrence with basic protection capabilities never before afforded our space systems. Yet, space deterrence is not an “all in” strategy, nor can it reduce the risk of attack to zero.1 Should aspects of deterrence fail, we must take steps to defend and protect our space systems and the critical global services they provide</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">Operationally responsive space (</span>ORS<span class="BoldUnderline">) by definition is “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of joint force commanders’ needs.</span>”2 Dissected further, one key word stands out: assured … being sufficiently robust, timely, agile, adaptive, and resilient, to achieve desired outcomes with a high degree of certainty.3 So while <span class="BoldUnderline">ORS</span> intends to provide operational and tactical support to the joint warfighter<span class="BoldUnderline">, its true value will be the assurance it </span>provides as a credible strategic deterrent against space attacks. <span class="BoldUnderline">As a deterrent, </span>ORS provides<span class="BoldUnderline"> access to existing capabilities, or </span>rapid deployment and employment of new capabilities,denying the benefits our adversaries may seek by attacking our space capabilities<span class="BoldUnderline">. Through timely and accurate intelligence, </span>we can work to understand our adversaries’ intent<span class="BoldUnderline"> and armed with this knowledge, we gain the opportunity to influence their decision-making calculus. Understanding intent, coupled with credible and timely ORS capabilities, can effectivelydeny or greatly reduce the benefits they seek by attacking the asymmetric advantages enabled by space</span>.<span class="BoldUnderline"> ORS provides a responsiveness that will allow the commander</span>, US Strategic Command (CDR USSTRATCOM), to respond and support our combatant commands real-time and near-term requirements. To support these requirements, <span class="BoldUnderline">ORS consists of three tiers of capabilities: Tier 1, the employment of existing capabilities within minutes to hours; Tier 2, the rapid call-up, launch and deployment of tailored, ready to field capabilities within days to weeks; and finally, Tier 3, the rapid development of a new capability to meet a combatant commander’s joint urgent operational need within months to a year.</span> The Unified Command Plan assigns CDR USSTRATCOM the responsibility for all military space. The space systems under his authority and control provide our warfighters increased speed, precision, and lethality in military operations. In 2007, during an Air Force Association speech in Los Angeles, California, General C. Robert Kehler, commander, Air Force Space Command and former deputy commander, USSTRATCOM, stated that the biggest difference between 25 years ago and today, was that “space today is embedded in combat operations.”4 ORS’ strategic deterrent value has the potential to be just as important to future combat operations. <span class="BoldUnderline">Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When Applied to Space For years, deterrence theory centered solely on nuclear deterrence strategies, which relied heavily on threats of punishment and unacceptable losses or mutually assured destruction. These strategies effectively deterred the use of nuclear weapons throughout the Cold War to present day. However, strategies of threatening devastating nuclear retaliation do not apply to space</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">In fact, a deterrence strategy that includes </span>the threat of punishment<span class="BoldUnderline"> (i.e., impose cost) should be just one, if not a limited aspect of deterrence for space.</span> For almost half a century, nuclear deterrence strategies formed the foundation for the Cold War waged between the US and the former Soviet Union. Both superpowers relied on the threat of nuclear weapons to deter even conventional military actions, for fear of rapid escalation. In its most unlimited form, <span class="BoldUnderline">mutual assured destruction was a key deterrence strategy;</span> a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both the attacker and the defender.5 <span class="BoldUnderline">While nuclear weapons continue to be a strategic deterrent, the same destructive thought process and strategy is</span> notdirectly applicable to space.<span class="BoldUnderline">6 Today, some theorists focus and apply more punishing or destructive deterrence practices and thinking to the space domain</span>. They view credible deterrence in space as relying upon the threat of punishment against an aggressor; going so far as to suggest that an attack against us could be countered with an attack in kind. One specific definition limits deterrence to an “attempt to persuade an adversary by threat of force (and other measures) not to pursue an undesirable course of action.”7 Another theorist states, “Deterrence can only succeed if the enemy finds the threat of punishment to be believable.”8 These approaches are less likely to deter for space, especially given our dependence upon the domain<span class="BoldUnderline">. For example, destroying an adversary’s satellite, especially one in an operational orbit, would create a large debris field, potentially hampering or denying our own ability to access space. Instead, deterrence for space can only succeed if our enemies believe we have credible means of denying the benefits they seek to gain. Space deterrence theory should focus on credible ways and means to deny an enemy the benefits they seek; impose costs on our adversaries</span> (against their most prized assets);9 <span class="BoldUnderline">and encourage their restraint.</span> A New Focus of Deterrence What does deterrence look like in the 21st century? The US has not yet figured that out, said <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “You need something that deters a conflict, and you need more choices than just nuclear. ~ Sandra I. Erwin, Future of War—How the Game is Changing … Our deterrence strategy no longer rests primarily on the grim premise of inflicting devastating consequences on potential foes.… ~ US National Security Strategy, 2006 In fact, the US does have new and plausible thoughts on 21st century deterrence. Authored under the leadership of General Cartwright, then commander of USSTRATCOM, and signed out in December 2006, the Deterrence Operations Joint Operating Concept (DO-JOC) is the Department of Defense’s (DoD) latest view on deterrence. This approach extends beyond traditional nuclear deterrence theory, which dates back to the heralded days of Strategic Air Command. The DO-JOC states that the purpose or objective of deterrence operations is to “convince adversaries not to take actions that threaten US vital interests by means of decisive influence over their decision-making</span>.”10 <span class="BoldUnderline">In order to influence our adversaries’ decision-making calculus, it focuses on and integrates three key elements: Deny the benefits the adversary seeks; impose costs the adversary fears; and encourage adversary restraint</span> (by convincing them that restraint will result in an acceptable outcome).11 Of these three elements, <span class="BoldUnderline">denying the benefit should be our focus when fielding new ORS capabilities. </span>Deterrence today can only succeed if our adversaries find ORS credible enough to enable military operations<span class="BoldUnderline"> even in a contested environment. Deny the Benefits—ORS Tier 1 and Tier 2 Examples People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space:</span> Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict. ~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12 The purpose to benefit denial is to convince an adversary that their intent will not be achieved, or have little to no value. Today, our ability to field ORS<span class="BoldUnderline"> capabilities </span>is minimal at best, and unconvincing as a credible deterrent. <span class="BoldUnderline">Instead</span>, our adversaries likely perceive great benefit in attempting to deny the US’ space capabilities. <span class="BoldUnderline">These benefits, also referred to as “vulnerabilities gaps,”13 are reasons why </span>we must pursue ORS with an increased sense of urgency. However, for benefit denial to be viewed as a credible deterrent, the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Study states “our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack.”14 The space and cyberspace domains are increasingly important to how current and future wars will be fought and won. As recently as 4 November 2009, <span class="BoldUnderline">the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) top Air Force Commander, Xu Qiliang, called the militarization of space an “historical inevitability.”</span>15 This statement came on the heels of an historic visit to USSTRATCOM by <span class="BoldUnderline">General Xu Chihou, one of two vice chairmen of the PRC’s Central Military Commission. During this visit, General Kevin P. Chilton encouraged increased cooperation and comprehensive bilateral relationships between the two space-faring nations.16 Statements from Qiliang and actions such as the 2007 anti-satellite test highlight a growing disconnect between the PRC’s actions and stated policies, increasing concern amongst US leaders and lending credence to the need for new deterrence practices.</span> Moving forward, to be a true deterrent, ORS must also win the race to space in both the speed and cost of fielding capability versus our adversaries’ attempts to counter, destroy, or deny them.<span class="BoldUnderline"> Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible role in deterring adverse actions against our space capabilities: (1) International cooperation and partnerships through shared space capabilities (Tier 1) and (2) the ability to rapidly augment or replace some aspect of existing on-orbit ISR assets in low Earth orbit (Tier 2). </span>Tier 1 and Two<span class="BoldUnderline"> ORS capabilities </span>can be deployed<span class="BoldUnderline"> and employed </span>rapidly, within hours <span class="BoldUnderline">to days. The cost for Tier 1 includes implementing new concept of operations for deployed on-orbit systems, or the rapid, low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2.</span>

Expanding ORS will deter attacks against US space assets
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Putman 9</span> – USAF Major, operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,
DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron (Christopher, “Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event

<span class="BoldUnderline">The U</span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline">S</span>tates <span class="BoldUnderline">has taken some initial steps to improve its defensive capabilities</span>. The DoD stood up the joint Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Office on May 21,2007 at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico. <span class="BoldUnderline">The ORS effort seeks to meet emerging warfighter needs with new space capabilities</span>. Ron Sega, DoD executive agent for space, stated that <span class="BoldUnderline">efforts will focus on the "ability to launch, activate and employ low-cost military-useful satellites, provide, search capability, reconstitute and augment existing capability, while providing timely availabilities of tailor-made, unique capabilities.</span> ,,39 Further, the<span class="BoldUnderline"> DoD's </span>Plan for O<span class="BoldUnderline">perationally </span>R<span class="BoldUnderline">esponsive </span>S<span class="BoldUnderline">pace </span>highlighted the need to increase "situational awareness<span class="BoldUnderline"> and adaptability to the threat</span>, as well as an ability to evolve the total suite of space capabilities to address emerging threats in new ways.,,40 The Commander of <span style="font-size: 5pt;">United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM) detailed three efforts vital to execute the plan: rapidly develop technological and operational innovations, rapidly modify or supplement existing systems to increase capabilities, and rapidly reconstitute space systems when necessary to maintain capability.41 Initial focus on capabilities will be on ISR and communication satellites, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid launch capabilities, and command and control. 42 The ORS effort will use a three tier capability approach to meet warfighter needs. Tier-1implements activities immediately-to-days using existing or on-orbit systems. Tier-2 utilizes field-ready systems in days-to-weeks to provide rapid exploitation, augmentation or reconstitution of space capabilities. Finally, Tier-3 solutions take months-to-one year to satisfy needs while capabilities are modified or developed and then deployed.43 The ORS implementation timeline envisions eight tactical satellite demonstrators through fiscal year 2013. As of January 2009, two demonstrators have been launched with the third delayed from a scheduled spring 2009 launch due to technical issues. The program timeline also includes tests of operational employment and integration, command and control, and launch vehicles. The ORS program office recently purchased the first three launch vehicle specifically procured for ORS with launches scheduled for 2010 and 2011. Finally, the DoD expects the "Chiliworks" facility at Kirtland Air Force Base, which will focus onTier-2 satellite fielding, to be fully operational by 2015.44 While there are other ongoing efforts within the Intelligence Community and the DoD45 , </span><span class="BoldUnderline" style="font-size: 5pt;">ORS provides a good starting point for implementation of recommendations within</span><span class="BoldUnderline"> this paper. The ORS plan identifies the need for both anticipatory and reactive elements</span>. ORS planners should focus on the Chinese threat to build capabilities to fit within the Tier-1 and Tier-2 categories. The conflict with China would have to extend past a year to make use ofTier-3 capabilities. The United States must anticipate Chinese actions and have field-ready systems ready for either preemptive or immediate reactive use. Field-ready systems would provide a credible<span class="BoldUnderline"> defensive </span>deterrent against<span class="BoldUnderline"> existing and likely </span>Chinese offensive<span class="BoldUnderline"> anti-satellite </span>actions. PROPOSED DEFENSIVE ACTIONS The United States can choose from a wide variety of options to develop a defensive strategy to counter the Chinese threat to LEO satellites. The comprehensive approach should address space situational awareness (SSA), preplanned satellite actions, launch capability, small satellites, decreased dependence on space systems, nuclear explosion protection, institutional changes, transparency, and engagement. Space Situational Awareness <span class="BoldUnderline">Improving SSA is essential to the success of this strategy. The U</span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline">S</span>tates <span class="BoldUnderline">must have a comprehensive knowledge of all objects in orbit</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">Although the U</span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline">S</span>tates <span class="BoldUnderline">maintains a significant Space Surveillance Network</span> (SSN) network, <span class="BoldUnderline">it lacks coverage in key areas and the capability to comprehensively predict the orbits of all objects in space</span>;<span class="BoldUnderline"> the</span> February 10, 2009 <span class="BoldUnderline">collision between an Iridium commercial satellite and a Russian military satellite caught the SSN by surprise</span>.46 The United States could build more fixed ground sites, but this would be limited by host country permissions and fiscal constraints. As a near term improvement to coverage, the United States should leverage the US Navy's AEGIS cruiser and destroyer-based radars into its SSN. The AEGIS radar highlighted its space surveillance capability when it tracked a decaying US satellite, enabling its destruction by a US anti-satellite weapon in 2008.47 While the Navy assets need to train and execute their primary mission, they could be given alternate tasking to search and track objects in LEO. This would entail development of procedures between services. Further, integration of land and space-based missile warning sensors into the SSN would yield benefits in the event of an anti-satellite launch. Finally, the United States should continue to pursue satellite as a sensor technology, where the satellite has the ability to self-identify and report on attacks. <span class="BoldUnderline">Improved SSA also allows the U</span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline">S</span>tates <span class="BoldUnderline">to characterize the resultant debris field of an anti-satellite attack and thus support reactive measures that may be required by other satellites</span>. Intelligence Directly related to improved SSA is a robust intelligence effort that focuses on Chinese anti-satellite activity. Indications and warning may include increased communication at tracking stations, deployment of mobile tracking stations, and fueling and dispersal of launch vehicles. Identification and reporting of Chinese anti-satellite preparations would enable execution of preemptive defensive actions by the United States. Preplanned Satellite Actions Establishing preplanned actions is key to deterring and reacting<span class="BoldUnderline"> to an anti-satellite attack. </span>While the time from launch to impact for the SC-19 is on the order of minutes, intelligence of an impending launch can lengthen the timeline for taking preemptive defensive actions. While limited on-board fuel prevents large orbital maneuvers, a one-time small change to a satellite's orbit is possible. These <span class="BoldUnderline">orbital </span>maneuvers must be executed before the launch of the<span class="BoldUnderline"> anti-satellite </span>weapon. Changes in orbit will produce a discrepancy between the anticipated satellite location and the final satellite tracking just prior to launch. The inconsistency may cause the Chinese to doubt the quality of their data and delay the launch as they develop new orbital tracking data, thus opening a window for additional US actions to prevent a launch. However, if the Chinese did decide to launch without updating their data, the slight change in orbit may cause the antisatellite weapon to miss. These same procedures would also be effective against ground-based anti-satellite weapons; a maneuver could lead to a laser missing the target. Having preplanned actions ready to execute provides United States planners another option. If a conflict looks<span class="BoldUnderline"> to be </span>inevitable, they could<span class="BoldUnderline"> decide to rapidly </span>execute minor maneuvers across satellite constellations. <span class="BoldUnderline">While not only complicating the Chinese targeting process, this could serve as non-destructive shot across the bow. </span>If<span class="BoldUnderline"> the </span>conflict escalates<span class="BoldUnderline"> into a conventional war, </span>the<span class="BoldUnderline"> single </span>maneuver may buy<span class="BoldUnderline"> the U</span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline">S</span>tates enough time to execute a kinetic strike<span class="BoldUnderline"> that would dismantle the Chinese anti-satellite program.</span> The importance of these strikes would move the priority high on the targeting list. Here again, intelligence is a key enabler. Targets must be accurately located, vetted, and updated to enable quick strikes on the anti-satellite targets. Variable and Rapid Launch Capability The current<span class="BoldUnderline"> United States Department of Defense </span>launch complex does not have the capability to<span class="BoldUnderline"> rapidly </span>replenish satellites<span class="BoldUnderline"> in the event of destruction. Launch preparation and execution can take weeks to months. The United States must adopt rapid and flexible commercial launch technologies</span>. Of at least equal importance to having a rapid launch capability is a launch system that deploys satellites from varying locations. When launched from the traditional space ports of Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg Air Force Base, China can easily monitor the launch and quickly determine the initial orbit and possibly satellite type. Having a capability that can unpredictably launch from unmonitored locations will delay China's ability to track and identify United States satellites, greatly inhibiting their ability to target satellites. This capability could be sea-based, where monitoring by an adversary is more difficult. The capability could also be airborne, like the Pegasus program which has successfully launched satellites using an L-I0ll aircraft from California, Virginia, Florida, the Canary Islands, and the Marshall Islands. 48 Small Satellites TheU<span class="BoldUnderline">nited </span>S<span class="BoldUnderline">tates </span>must<span class="BoldUnderline"> also </span>make a move towards smaller satellites<span class="BoldUnderline"> that use a common bus and architecture</span>. A single launch vehicle could<span class="BoldUnderline"> then </span>deploy multiple small satellites, allowing the<span class="BoldUnderline"> rapid </span>establishment of a new constellation at the beginning of a conflict<span class="BoldUnderline"> or replenishment of an old one</span>. China would then face a dilemma as to which satellites they would attack. If China does decide to attack, the impact would be proportionately smaller because they would take out a lesser percentage of the constellation. The Iridium collision demonstrated the ability of a large constellation to absorb the loss of single satellite with minimal degradation. 49 Having numerous small satellites<span class="BoldUnderline"> ready to launch </span>can<span class="BoldUnderline"> also </span>lesson<span class="BoldUnderline"> the need to perform defensive orbital </span>maneuvers, as they can be quickly replenished. Finally, small satellites are<span class="BoldUnderline"> inherently </span>harder to track<span class="BoldUnderline"> whether by radar or optical telescopes</span>. While a requirement for large satellites remains; small satellites will help protect and complement the large satellites. Key to developing small satellites is a common command and control (C2) network regardless of function, rather than today's stovepiped C2 that are unique for each satellite type. A common bus and C2 system can also support small satellites by relying on a cross-linked network to control satellites and download mission data from a central location rather than on ground stations distributed around the globe. Decreased Dependence on Space Systems The United States must decrease its dependence on space systems, making attack on satellites a less appealing target. United States military forces should have weapons and procedures that can function with or without satellite support. For example, high altitude unmanned aerial vehicles can and should complement, and potentially replace, the LEO satellite ISR mission. Countering High-altitude Nuclear Explosions Although the possibility of a HANE may be remote, defense<span class="BoldUnderline"> against the long term radiation effects </span>must focus on hardening<span class="BoldUnderline"> all future </span>satellites<span class="BoldUnderline"> against nuclear explosions. </span>Without hardening<span class="BoldUnderline">, depending on the size of the constellation, satellite </span>replenishment could take months<span class="BoldUnderline"> and quickly exhaust satellite spares even with rapid reaction launch capabilities</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">Building satellites to withstand the nuclear weapon radiation effects beyond that required against the natural environment would add only 2 to 3 percent to total satellite cost</span>.50 Consideration may be given to forgoing hardening for satellites designed for a short (days to weeks) lifetime; one should consider the radiation from a nuclear explosion may remain for up to two years, precluding the launch of non-hardened satellites into the affected orbital regime. 51 While some government low-earth orbit satellites are already hardened, the United States should harden all future satellites. Institutional Changes Changes must be properly incorporated into the DoD infrastructure to be effective. All aspects of doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities must be examined. Additionally, the changes must work across many organizations within the DoD and throughout the United States government. For example, STRATCOM should run comprehensive anti-satellite exercises that incorporate all applicable services and agencies, from the satellite operator to the end user. Transparency The<span class="BoldUnderline"> above </span>actions may deter China from<span class="BoldUnderline"> further </span>pursuing<span class="BoldUnderline"> its </span>anti-satellite programs<span class="BoldUnderline">, but only if executed in a transparent manner. Systems must be fully trained and tested; the United States must overtly demonstrate its capability to rapidly deploy satellites. China must be made fully aware of US capabilities to effectively counter its anti-satellite weapons</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">China may then realize that its actions will have minimal effect on US military capabilities</span>. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Engagement </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Beyond using a military response to protect government satellites, the United States should consider a holistic approach to China's anti-satellite capabilities by using the other elements of national power: diplomatic, information, and economic. China's current reliance on space is minimal when compared to the United States. China can therefore afford to use antisatellite weapons against the United States. Increased Chinese reliance on space would provide significant deterrents to Chinese use ofcertain weapons such as direct ascent, co-orbital, and nuclear, since collateral damage from these weapons would affect China. First, the United States should engage on Chinese proposed treaties limiting space weapons. Next, the United States should work to build Chinese economic dependence on space systems, while taking appropriate measures to limit technology transfer. With a gap between the Space Shuttle and Ares launch vehicles, an opportunity exists to bring China in as a partner on the International Space Station by providing equipment launch services. Working with China to build its reliance on and participation in space activities will help build deterrence to the use of anti-satellite weapons; the collateral effects would harm its own interests. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS While this paper focuses on LEO satellites, the same rigor must also be applied to medium Earth orbit (MEO), highly elliptical orbit (REO), and geosynchronous (GEO) orbit satellites. Although current direct ascent anti-satellite capability can only reach LEO, China's ballistic· missile and space launch vehicles could reach higher orbits. Additionally, China has orbited GEO satellites which could already be carrying co-orbital anti-satellite weapons. China has expressed interest in combating the MEO GPS system through both kinetic and non-kinetic attacks.52 China is also actively developing jamming capabilities to combat United States military communications satellites found predominately in GEO. Additionally</span>, <span class="BoldUnderline">the proposed defensive measures will do more than support deterrence against China. Numerous nations will seek to emulate Chinese actions with kinetic and nonkinetic options</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">In response to the recent anti-satellite activity of China and the United States, </span>Russia announced the resumption of its anti-satellite weapons program.53 <span class="BoldUnderline">Ground-based actions such as jamming are within the realm of many nations and individuals</span>. One only need look at the hijacking of the HBO satellite signal by "Capt Midnight" as an example of a single individual being able to steal a satellite transponder, in effect jamming the intended signal. 54 Further, <span class="BoldUnderline">proliferation of nuclear weapon and ballistic missile technology make the use of a HANE attractive to a rogue nation or terrorist nation that has little reliance on space capabilities</span>. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency suggests this scenario as a possible last act of defiance by North Korean forces facing defeat,55 Lastly, <span class="BoldUnderline">these measures can be used to combat natural phenomena, such as a meteor shower or solar storms that can damage satellite systems</span>. “<span class="BoldUnderline">A strategy that ensures access to and use of space is useful in times of peace just as in times of war, since space systems that provide critical services may fail or become inoperative in the absence of hostile action</span>.”<span style="font-size: 5pt;">56 Finally, the United States must not stop at applying these recommendations merely to military satellites. While government satellites are critical in a conflict, commercial satellites in all orbital regimes have become an integral part of military operations to include weather, imaging, and communications. Although tightly tied to the world economy, China could decide to expand its anti-satellite program to attack the economic interests of the United States. While commercial satellites companies typically incorporate protective measures against natural threats, the United States government should share best practices and provide incentives to commercial entities to protect themselves against human threats. The government could do this through requirements to obtain licensing or guaranteed govemment contracts to companies that comply. CONCLUSION The fundamental U.S. security interest in the wake of China's 2007 anti-satellite test should be deterring China and others from attacking U.S. assets in space, using both a combination of declaratory policy, military programs, and diplomacy, and promoting a more stable and secure space environment.57 Council on Foreign Relations </span><span class="BoldUnderline">The United States government requires a comprehensive plan to counter the threat to its LEO systems posed by Chinese anti-satellite weapons</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">Failing to protect these key satellites would severely degrade US military capabilities in a conflict with China</span>. The U<span class="BoldUnderline">nited </span>S<span class="BoldUnderline">tates </span>should rely on a defensive<span class="BoldUnderline"> space </span>strategy to deter<span class="BoldUnderline"> Chinese anti-satellite actions. </span>The strategy must include<span class="BoldUnderline"> robust </span>s<span class="BoldUnderline">pace </span>s<span class="BoldUnderline">ituational </span>a<span class="BoldUnderline">wareness, </span>preplanned actions, small satellites, rapid and variable launch capability, <span class="BoldUnderline">decreased dependence on space systems and institutional changes</span>. In total, these actions would complicate the ability for Chinese anti-satellite weapons to easily strike US assets while providing the means to operate through an attack and then reconstitute lost capability. <span class="BoldUnderline">The DoD's ORS effort can be used as springboard, but must be accelerated to meet the rapidly emerging threat</span>. <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Finally, its growth as a space faring nation may eventually be the best deterrence against a Chinese attack on United States satellites. However, the actions outlined in this paper can also be used to counter threats from other nations or natural phenomena. A rapid comprehensive defensive deterrence approach most effectively counters the Chinese threat and meets Presidential guidance to establish “contingency plans to ensure that U.S. forces can maintain or duplicate access to information from space assets and accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58</span>


===Solar Storms=== 
Contention is Solar Storms –
They’ll hit Earth in 2013 –no precise mechanism for predicting the time of impact

<span class="AuthorDate">Wall 9/13</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> –[</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 'Old Faithful' Sunspot to Fire Off More Solar Flares, Scientists Say,</span><span style="background-color: white; color: #0000cc; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.space.com/12921-sun-solar-flares-faithful-sunspot.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">An active region of the sun that blasted out powerful solar storms four days in a row last week likely isn't done yet, scientists say. </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">Officially, the flare-spouting region is called sunspot 1283. But space weather experts have dubbed it "Old Faithful," after the famous geyser in the United States' Yellowstone National Park that goes off like clockwork. And the solar Old Faithful should erupt again before it dissipates, researchers said. "It still has a fair amount of complexity," said solar physicist C. Alex Young of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. "So we still have a pretty good chance of seeing some more stuff from this one." An active sunspot Sunspots are temporary dark patches on the solar surface caused by intense magnetic activity. Some last for hours before disappearing; others linger for days, weeks or even months</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Powerful solar storms often erupt from sunspots. These include radiation-flinging solar flares and phenomena known as coronal mass ejections (CMEs) — massive clouds of solar plasma that can streak through space at up to 3 million mph (5 million kph). From Sept. 5-8, sunspot 1283 produced four big flares and three CMEs. Two of the flares were X-class events and two were M-class flares. (Strong solar flares are classified accordingto a three-tiered system: X-class are the most powerful, M-class are of medium strength and C-class are the weakest.) While the rapid motion previously observed in sunspot 1283 seems to have died down a bit, Young said, the sunspot looks poised to erupt again sometime soon. "There's a good probability that we're still going to seeat least another M-class flare, possibly another X-class flare," Young told SPACE.com. It's not uncommon for sunspots to pop off a number of powerful flares in quick succession the way 1283 has done, he added. That seems to be the natural order of things. "When you see one big flare, your chances of seeing another one are pretty good," Young said. A photo of a sunspot taken in May 2010, with Earth shown to scale. The image has been colorized for aesthetic reasons. This image with 0.1 arcsecond resolution from the Swedish 1-m Solar Telescope represents the limit of what is currently possible in terms of spatial resolution. CREDIT: The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, V.M.J. Henriques (sunspot), NASA Apollo 17 (Earth) View full size imageLearning more about solar storms </span>
Solar flares directed at Earth can cause <span style="font-size: 10pt;">temporary radio-communication blackouts. CMEs have even greater destructive potential; they can spawn geomagnetic storms that disrupt GPS signals, radio communications and power grids. [Sun's Wrath: Worst Solar Storms in History] So researchers are working hard to better understand sun storms, with the aim of one day being able to predict them with a great deal of accuracyand a long lead time. But they're not there yet. </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">"We still have a long way to go to really have the kind of forecasting capabilities that we have with terrestrial weather," Young said. That's not to say scientists aren't making progress. Indeed, they've learned a lot about solar eruptions lately, Young said. And the knowledge base will continue to grow, he added, as a fleet of sun-watching spacecraft beam home more and more observations of Earth's star. "We're really in a great time right now in terms of the data that we have," Young said, citing the contributions of spacecraft such as NASA's STEREO and Solar Dynamics Observatory, as well as SOHO, a collaboration between NASA and the European Space Agency. "It's going to be pretty exciting, from a solar physics and a space weather point of view." All of these eyes on the sun should be treated to quite a show over the next several years</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
Solar activity has been ramping up <span style="font-size: 10pt;">over the last few months as the sun works toward a maximum in its 11-year activitycycle. Scientists expect the peak of the current cycle, which is known as Solar Cycle 24, to come in 2013.</span>

We win uniqueness – storms at their peak – worse than previous storms
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lovett 11</span> –[Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]]</span>]

On February 14 the sun erupted with the largest solar flare seen<span class="BoldUnderline"> in four years</span>—big enough to interfere with radio communications and GPS signals for airplanes on long-distance flights. As solar storms go, the Valentine's Day flare was actually modest. <span class="BoldUnderline">But </span>the<span class="BoldUnderline"> burst of </span>activity is only the start of the upcoming solar maximum, due to peak **in the next couple of years."**<span class="BoldUnderline">The sun has an activity cycle, much like hurricane season</span>," Tom Bogdan, director of the Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colorado, said earlier this month at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C."It's been hibernating<span class="BoldUnderline"> for four or five years, not doing much of anything</span>." Now the sun is waking up, and even though the upcoming solar maximum may see a record low in the overall amount of activity, <span class="BoldUnderline">the </span>individual events could be very powerful.

<span style="background-color: white;">Huge solar storms knock out U.S communication and GPS satellites</span>
<span class="AuthorDate">Marusek, 7</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">-[nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm Threat Analysis,” Impact, </span><span style="background-color: white; color: #374352; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
In the past, solar storms have caused<span class="BoldUnderline"> billions of dollars of </span>commercial satellites to malfunction and die<span class="BoldUnderline"> prematurely. </span>A Great solar storm has the power to destroy many space assets (Space Station, Space Shuttle, <span class="BoldUnderline">LEO Satellites, GEO Satellites,</span> Off World Missions) <span class="BoldUnderline">simultaneously.</span> In our technology driven society, satellites play an important role in communications<span class="BoldUnderline">. The loss of satellites can affect: major news wire service feeds, network television, satellite television and cable programming, nationwide radio service, weather data, cell phone service, pagers, automated teller machines, gas station credit card handling services, airline weather tracking services, earthquake monitoring network, blackberries, GPS navigation service</span>, <span class="BoldUnderline">and critical </span>military & airline communications. And this list grows longer every day. Current commercial satellites are light-weight, sophisticated, built at the lowest cost using off-the-shelf electronics. 3 This current low cost approach makes new satellite design <span class="BoldUnderline">more vulnerable to damage from solar storms due to less radiation hardening</span>. Ahigh-energy particle<span class="BoldUnderline"> from an SPE </span>can penetrate the wall of a satelliteand deposit sufficient charge to cause an electrical upset to a circuit switch, false command, memory state change or loss. 1 As the nuclear particles collide within the spacecraft, they release electrons that build up an internal dielectric charge. This static charge can destroy circuitry on electronic boards. The particles can also change data and instructions stored in computer memory. Only deaths with “day, month and year” listed were used in this analysis.Impact, 2007 James A. Marusek 21 Some of the memory damage is soft causing Single Event Upset (SEU). Generally, this anomaly can be corrected by a computer reboot. But some of the damage can be hard causing unrepairable physical damage to the junction of the microcircuit. These types of failures can be fatal.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Radiation from the flares renders satellites inoperable- this will collapse the economy</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forbes 9-14</span>-11-[“A Powerful Solar Storm Could Render Satellites Inoperable For Years;”( http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/09/14/a-powerful-solar-storm-could-render-satellites-inoperable-for-years/]jt

<span class="BoldUnderline">Last October, around Halloween, the Sun produced a solar storm that was one of the largest ever recorded, and was strong enough to raise some concerns about the safety of Earth’s satellites.</span> According to a recent paper published in Space Weather, <span class="BoldUnderline">such concern may well be justified</span>. If its conclusions are correct, then a <span class="BoldUnderline">solar storm the size of one that was observed in 1859 could potentially kill several weather, telecommunications, and military satellites in less than a year</span>. Here’s where the danger lies: <span class="BoldUnderline">most satellites, at least at some point in their orbits, fly through the inner radiation belt surrounding the Earth</span> (aka the Van Allen Belt). The inner radiation belt, like it says on the tin, comprises quite a bit of intense radiation. However, satellites are shielded from that radiation, and the intensity of the radiation in the inner belt is relatively stable. That’s because it’s in large part shielded from high-energy particles by the plasmasphere, which is a cloud of plasma that is part of the Earth’s magnetosphere. Usually, <span class="BoldUnderline">when a solar storm hits, most of the radiation either hits the outer radiation belt or the plasmaphere. When the plasmasphere gets hit, some of the plasma dissipates, making it smaller, but that dissipation prevents too much intense radiation from hitting the inner belt.</span> During the Halloween storms, observations showed that there was significant erosion of the plasmasphere. Not enough to let significant radiation into the inner belt, but enough that the study authors wanted to take a closer look at the data. Based on observational data of solar storms, the radiation belts, and the plasmasphere during past years, the authors were able to successfully model the Halloween solar storm. They then modeled a solar storm with the intensity of the Carrington Solar Storm, which took place in 1859 and is estimated to have been about four times stronger than the Halloween storms. When the Carrington storm was modeled, the results showed that the plasmasphere was eroded to the point that much more radiation reached the inner belt than is normally the case. Moreover, the intensity produced “waves” of strong radiation continually moving through the inner belt. Based on their models, the authors suggest that the high radiation intensity of the inner belt could persist for as long as a decade. That intensity would likely swamp the radiation shielding on a typical satellite, andthe authors estimate that most would be rendered inoperable within a year after the storm. The loss of satellites as a result of a solar storm would be an economic catastrophe – we rely on satellites for a large portion of our day to day lives,even when we don’t realize it. The researchers hope to continue their work modeling radiation from solar storms, with an eye towards better and more accurate predictions, as well as looking for ways to diminish the impacts of such storms. In the meantime, the authors suggest that satellite engineers incorporate the potential for intensification of the inner radiation belt in their radiation mitigation strategies. That strikes me as a good idea.

Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 </span><span class="AuthorDate">–[</span>[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]</span>]

<span class="BoldUnderline">Then </span>there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture.<span class="BoldUnderline"> For decades now, </span>Americans have enjoyed<span class="BoldUnderline"> the advantages of </span>being at the center of that system.<span class="BoldUnderline"> The worldwide use of the dollar</span>, and the stability of our economy, among other things, <span class="BoldUnderline">made it easier for us to run</span> huge budget <span class="BoldUnderline">deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven</span>. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, <span class="BoldUnderline">traditional </span>foreign-policy challenges are multiplying.<span class="BoldUnderline"> The threat from </span>al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates <span class="BoldUnderline">has not been extinguished. </span>Iran<span class="BoldUnderline"> and </span>North Korea <span class="BoldUnderline">are continuing on their bellicose paths</span>, <span class="BoldUnderline">while </span>Pakistan<span class="BoldUnderline"> and </span>Afghanistan<span class="BoldUnderline"> are progressing</span> smartly <span class="BoldUnderline">down the road to chaos. </span>Russia's <span class="BoldUnderline">new militancy </span>and China<span class="BoldUnderline">'s seemingly relentless rise also </span>give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the<span class="BoldUnderline"> 19</span>30s, when global trade and finance ground<span class="BoldUnderline"> nearly </span>to a halt<span class="BoldUnderline">, the peaceful </span>democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers<span class="BoldUnderline"> led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster </span>exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys<span class="BoldUnderline">, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. </span>The aftershocks of the financial crisis will<span class="BoldUnderline"> almost </span>certainly rock our <span class="BoldUnderline">principal </span>strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the <span class="BoldUnderline">Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices</span>, now driven down by the global slowdown. <span class="BoldUnderline">China is perhaps even more fragile</span>, <span class="BoldUnderline">its economic growth depend</span>ing heavily <span class="BoldUnderline">on foreign investment</span> and access to foreign markets. <span class="BoldUnderline">Both will</span> now <span class="BoldUnderline">be constricted</span>, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest <span class="BoldUnderline">in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the </span>authoritarian leader<span class="BoldUnderline">s of these countries seek to </span>divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.



Redundancy and Reconstitution is key to protect satellite systems
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CBS 9-28</span>-11-[September 28, 2011 1:06 PM PRINT TEXT -“Satellites threatened by sun "superstorms" By Charles Q. Choi [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/28/scitech/main20112845.shtml%5djt|http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/28/scitech/main20112845.shtml]jt]]

(Space.com) <span class="BoldUnderline">Magnetic storms set off by the sun could pose a bigger threat than thought to weather, communication, military and other satellites close to Earth, with a potentially devastating economic impact, scientists suggest</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">In the new study, researchers found that solar </span>radiation can energize a belt of high-energy particles that surrounds Earth more dramatically than previously believed. The study focused on the possible effects of a particularly strong magnetic storm on the Van Allen radiation belts, the dangerous rings of high-energy particles that girdle the Earth. The belts are split into two distinct zones. The outer belt, which is made up of electrons, reaches from about 15,800 to 31,600 miles (25,500 to 51,000 kilometers) above the surface, while the inner belt, which consists of a mix of electrons and protons, reaches from about 4,000 to 8,000 miles (6,400 to 12,800 km) above. Scientists had known the outer belt could become far more intense during geomagnetic storms caused by high-energy particles spewed by the sun, such as the storm that supercharged Earth's northern lights display Monday night (Sept. 26). However, they have long thought such storms do not affect the inner belt. Now computer simulations suggest <span class="BoldUnderline">that during a "superstorm" -- which has occurred in the past and is likely to recur in the future</span> ? <span class="BoldUnderline">the electrons in the inner belt, too, could become energized</span>. <span class="BoldUnderline">Near-Earth radiation could then remain dramatically more intense for several years afterward. "The increase in radiation in the inner zone may last for up to a decade and continue damaging satellites for years after a very strong storm</span>," study lead author Yuri Shprits, a space physicist at the University of California, Los Angeles, told SPACE.com. <span class="BoldUnderline">This radiation would damage satellites in that zone and potentially cut their lifetimes by five-sixths or more</span>. [Related: Space Radiation to Rise for Astronauts, Airline Passengers] "It would not destroy all satellites at once," Shprits said. "However, at least according to our calculations, <span class="BoldUnderline">a very strong storm can increase the radiation dose in the inner zone by a factor of 10, and within a few years we may lose a significant portion of the satellites that traverse the inner zone.</span>" <span class="BoldUnderline">In terms of </span>new strategies that might be needed to protect satellite systems, "it's hard to say," Shprits said. "First of all, we need to estimate risks and estimate cost. <span class="BoldUnderline">If cost is too high, </span>wemay want to <span class="BoldUnderline">accept the risks and</span> start getting ready to replenish the fleet in the case of such event." "There are a number of rather expensive strategies that can be used to mitigate the risk, including redundancy in electronics and increased shielding," he added. "Zero risk means infinite cost." Two missions to study the radiation belts are planned for 2012, Shprits noted: NASA's Radiation Belt Storm Probe will observe radiation belts in the equatorial plane, while Moscow State University's LOMONOSOV mission, with UCLA-built instruments on board, will observe radiation belts at low altitudes. The scientists detailed their findings online in the Aug. 25 issue of the journal Space Weather.

==1AC Emory== 

Contention one is Inherency
ORS exists now but it is underfunded

Armstrong ‘10, Air Force Major, 10 – Major, IDE Student (H Mekesha, March 2010, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set,” http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf 0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)
The Department of Defense defined ORS as “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of Joint Force Commanders needs”61 but the concept has its naysayers. Future funding and senior leadership support will demonstrate the necessity of implementing the ORS concept. The President’s Fiscal Year 2010 budget request significantly diminished the ORS budget. The $112.9 million request would reduce the FY 2009’s appropriations by $83.7 million (42.5%). HASC added $23.4 million to the ORS budget to fund remaining development and launch costs of the ORS-1 satellite. The Fiscal Year 2011 budget is still in work, however the FY11 Air Force Posture Statement stated a request of $94 million, almost 9% of the total space-related budget, for the ORS program. These on-demand space vehicles will only augment or temporarily replace large satellite systems, so they will most likely not have all the capabilities of the more complex spacecraft but they should have enough survivability and operational mission requirements to serve as temporary solutions. The ORS concept is sound and funded, but to be effective it must be delivered to the user efficiently on-time and on-budget. This innovative way of doing business in space starts with a revolutionary alteration in the current military space.

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space by developing a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, hardening of satellites, and the deployment of small satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

Contention _2__is Deterrence__
__Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence –makes a space attack inevitable__

__Rendleman, 10 –[ Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science]__

__The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) kinetic-kill interceptor against one of their own defunct weather satellites generated considerable angst across the United States space community. The 2007 test demonstrated that the importance of space capabilities is also their Achilles heel, that is, their deadly weakness in spite of overall strength; it is far too easy to neutralize space systems and their power. In the broad strategic context, space capabilities have their own set of unique, inherent vulnerabilities, which are largely the result of orbital mechanics. This invites destruction, damage, and even just mischief delivered by even the least significant adversary. However, other nations may seek to deny U.S. advantages in space through a variety of negation and prevention actions. Negation Threats Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base. Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5 Space-based threats proliferate as a result of the ever-growing global availability of technology and access to the space domain. There are huge incentives for states to invest in and use space , and the spread of space technologies has occurred. States with sufficient resources can now reach out to space and ‘‘touch’’ satellites through a variety of means, and achieve one and even more of the five Ds. Spacecraft are vulnerable to direct ascent weapons as demonstrated by the Chinese ASAT test, and to a variety of other groundbased, airborne, and space-based ASAT technologies. Direct-ascent launched, or orbit-based nuclear devices, can be detonated, generating radiation and other lethal effects to destroy unshielded electronics over a wide lethal range. Co-orbital ASATs could be employed, comparable to the old Soviet system that was tested extensively in the 1970s and early 80s. In a less likely scenario, space-borne mines can also be deployed in close proximity to spacecraft, or exploded to generate debris clouds that destructively engage whole classes of satellites in the same orbital plane or in crossing orbits. Ground, space-based, or airborne lasers could be used by adversaries to wreak havoc. Blinding operations could be executed and inflict effects ranging from temporary ‘‘dazzling’’ to permanent burnout of optical or other sensors with intense energy bursts. Ground systems, supporting communications, and their nodes, are vulnerable to diverse land, sea, or air kinetic attacks, including sabotage. Unprotected systems are also susceptible to electronic attack through jamming and electromagnetic deception techniques. Jammers emit signals that mask or prevent reception of desired signals; these methods can disrupt uplinks, downlinks, and even cross-links. By disabling the means of command and control, and data communications, jammers render satellites inoperable or unavailable. Electromagnetic deception techniques can be employed to confuse systems; this could include sending false, but deceptively plausible, commands that cause spacecraft to perform damaging or wasteful maneuvers, modify databases or execute configuration changes, or otherwise destroy it. Similarly, supporting terrestrial ground stations, computer networks, and links are vulnerable to information operation and cyber attacks. These attacks could involve directing global denial of service tasks, injecting fake commands, malicious software and viruses into the space system, performing unauthorized monitoring and disclosure of sensitive information (data interception), and causing unauthorized modification or deliberate corruption of network information, services, and databases. In sum, there is a wide span of kinetic and other types of attacks an adversary could consider and employ. There is potential that even non-state actors can access some of these technologies and space systems, and achieve several of the five Ds; however, it is unlikely they can obtain and then employ a full-spectrum of these means and achieve all of these effects. Conducting an attack within the space domain involves a rather substantial investment to develop, acquire, operate, and sustain needed shooter, sensor, and command and control systems. Given the scope and commitment needed to affect such a move, an on-orbit attack would probably be made only in the context of a larger strategic struggle, perhaps as a prelude to or part of early combat operations. On the other hand, inexpensive jamming technology is available to even the poorest potential adversaries. As such, jamming poses the most used and growing threat to space systems. Some argue that jamming also carries with it implicit political and legal sanctions since no major space power has moved to ban or make even temporary and reversible jamming illegal. This may change now that a number of nations have banned together to object to recent Iranian satellite jamming.6 Cyber adversaries and criminals are also beginning to hone their craft. They present an evolving threat to space systems; and like jamming, cyber threats can be developed and deployed for only modest investments. Prevention Threats Prevention actions generally involve economic, political, informational, and diplomatic instruments of national power. For example, an extremely large creditor nation could employ its considerable economic clout and leverage in an attempt to compel or blackmail the United States to not license or permit imaging of its territory, preventing its use, and reducing its exposure to such observation. The creditor nation could seek to accomplish its objective by destabilizing the world market place. It could refuse to purchase treasury offerings that underpin the burgeoning U.S. fiscal and trade deficits, perhaps arguing that remote sensing, especially commercial remote sensing, of its territory infringes on its territorial and sovereign rights, or that it constitutes ‘‘unlawful’’ industrial espionage, and is thus, an unfair trade practice.7 Commercial remote sensing systems are nowan important resource for the United States Government and its national security needs. U.S. Government orders help sustain and stabilize the remote sensing industry,8 and any limitations on activities, whether for U.S. Government customers or commercial ones, imposed in response to external economic threats could evolve to cause problems. In an alternative scenario, a state, acting through political allies and proxies, could exert considerable influence and dominance to affect a change in U.S. law. This change could restrict licensing of commercial remote sensing imagery, restricting the market place and impacting business models for producers.9 As a diplomatic prevention example, adversaries could attempt to use international forums and treaties to deny frequency rights needed by U.S. military or intelligence satellites by making spurious ‘‘paper satellite’’ filings with the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). ‘‘Paper satellites’’ involve ITU applications for satellite orbital slots, many for ‘‘speculative’’ systems that will never leave Earth. These filings can block access to scarce spectrum and orbital resources.10 The ability to place communications and other satellites in geosynchronous orbit (GEO) positions could be held at risk. Some characterize some of these types of actions as a form of ‘‘lawfare.’’ ‘‘The term lawfare describes the growing use of international law claims, usually factually or legally meritless, as a tool of war. The goal is to gain a moral advantage over your enemy in the court of world opinion, and potentially a legal advantage in national and international tribunals.’’11 Prevention actions taken to hobble U.S. space systems are not armed attacks. As is discussed later, the use of force is only authorized under the United Nations (UN) Charter in response to an armed attack, or upon authorization of the UN Security Council. As such, using armed force to deter and defeat prevention actions involving political or diplomatic subterfuge or intrigue may be unlawful under international law. Creative alternative solutions must therefore be found to assure access to space when facing these types of threats. Implications for U.S. Space Strategy The wide span of threats poses profound implications for U.S. space strategy and its execution. First, unlike the Cold War era, the United States now confronts a wide array of global actors, all operating with different motivations and incentives, some of which could become potential adversaries who can attack or threaten space capabilities. These state and non-state adversaries exhibit a wide array of political, economic, technical, and social differences. Having many potential adversaries makes each of them harder to understand. This complicates efforts to understand motivations and to influence perceptions for deterrence purposes. These differences, in turn, increase the likelihood of misperception, undercutting strategies to protect access to space capabilities. When one’s attention is divided, deterrent measures that are appropriate for one target may not be useful, or even counterproductive, for another. This requires tailored intelligence efforts, information operations, and transparency efforts in order to avoid or minimize disputes and prevent problems. Second, the broad array of adversaries exhibit widely varying risk-taking behaviors. Risk-taking behavior can strongly influence an adversary’s perception of a situation. Understanding this phenomenon can lead to better ways of influencing those perceptions. Unfortunately, potential adversaries may not care that space systems offer tremendous value and capabilities to all nations, or care whether conflict in space could create space debris that could cost all nations access to the domain. A strategy to assure continuing access to space assets must therefore be sufficiently flexible to address both risk-averse and risk-taking adversaries. Indeed, potential adversaries may shift from risk-taking to risk-adverse over a relatively short period of time. China may fit in this category. Within a decade or two, it will have its own extensive space-based communications, navigation, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellite constellations, all of which will be integrated into its military operations. No doubt, China will embrace that evolution and become very reliant on space capabilities; this will shift it from an asymmetric competitor to one similar to the United States or Russia. Third, with the demise of the Soviet Union, some political commentators and critics described the United States as a ‘‘hyperpower’’ not just a ‘‘superpower.’’ 12 Though buffeted by recent events involving Iraq, Afghanistan, the Global War on Terror, and the 2008 global financial meltdown, U.S. military supremacy continues. But, that supremacy does not make or guarantee a successful space strategy. Adversaries may believe they have a higher stake than the United States in the outcome of a particular crisis or conflict. Alternatively, the United States stake in the crisis may not be commensurate with the possible cost of involvement by the United States military and the rest of its national security apparatus. The first alternative may encourage mischief by adversaries; the second discourages U.S. action. As a result, adversaries may find threats of U.S. action in response to hostile acts affecting U.S. access to space systems to be non-credible. Fourth, while the United States has produced superlative space capabilities, it has not produced enough systems ready to survive the new kinetic, exotic, jamming, and cyber threat environment. The vulnerability exists because the spacecraft developed and deployed today are in many ways the same as those originally fielded during the Cold War. During that epic struggle, there was a tacit and then explicit understanding that each superpower would not attack and overwhelm the other’s space systems, except in the dire st of circumstances, perhaps during the throes of a nuclear conflagration. Indeed, a number of agreements between the superpowers adopted the understanding and ruled out interference with national technical means, including space assets. This belief in the superiority of space systems and power blinds the United States to the inherent strategic weaknesses and vulnerabilities in these systems. This, predictably, can now be exploited by potential adversaries, such as China, who, with their recent ASAT test, appear more willing to fully explore the technologies needed to expand the limits of conventional war to include the space domain. Consequently, by historically and diplomatically reducing the threat, engineering of some satellite threat detection, attack avoidance, and other defense subsystems have not matured enough so that they are sophisticated, nimble, and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.__

__Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate__

__Wortzel, 8 – [Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science]__
__The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research a variety of forms of space weapons.77 These include:__
__. satellite jamming technology;__
__. collisions between space bodies;__
__. kinetic energy weapons;__
__. space-to-ground attack weapons;__
__. space planes that can transit and fight ‘‘up or down’’ in the upper atmosphere or space;__
__. high-power laser weapons;__
__. high-power microwave weapon systems;__
__. particle-beam weapons; and__
__. electromagnetic pulse.78__
__PLA authors credit the U.S. with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy. The PLA does have various forms of jamming capability, and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies. The dilemma here for the military theorists or planner in the U.S., is that this is really space science and rocket science. Although Chinese military theory, basic research, and applied research into these areas are transparent, the successes or weapons systems that may become formal programs are not transparent. Regardless of whether the algorithms are correct or not, it is clear that the PLA is serious about space warfare. The destruction of their own weather satellite and the blinding of a U.S. satellite mean they are achieving some success. PLA theorists think that internal lines of communication are most favorable for successful military operations, whether the offense, defense, or maintaining a logistics chain.79 They see internal lines as superior to the conduct of military operations on external lines.80 The Chinese see their regional position in Asia as superior to that of the U.S. because the U.S. has to fight, communicate, and re-supply along extended exterior lines, while China enjoys interior lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that in a conflict, they would probably use their jamming and antisatellite systems to disrupt American lines of communication, command and control, situational awareness, and efforts at coordination at the extended ranges of military conflict for the U.S.81 One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do, therefore, would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide the global, real time sensor and communications capabilities for network centric operations. The PLA believes that the U.S. is heavily dependent on its satellite systems, more dependent than the PLA. That is changing, however. As the PLA modernizes its own Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4SIR) systems, it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the U.S. Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other’s military operations. Space warfare will likely become an integral part of traditional conflict. The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One problem that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing. That is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or war planning sphere thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, an incident could quickly escalate and get out of control, leading to an exchange of weapons or a deeper crisis. For example, four officers from the PLA’s Second Artillery Command College, in Wuhan, have published an analysis of how to jam or destroy the space-based ballistic missile advanced warning systems of the U.S.82 In their article, the officers note, ‘‘a space borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars.’’83 They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S. Defense Support Program (DSP) early warning satellites, including the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. The authors discuss how to destroy the U.S. DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons.84 They also have a discussion of how to jam the satellites, their satellite-to-ground transmissions, or to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack.85 In their conclusion, the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the U.S. from launching a large scale military attack or intervention aimed at China’s own military operations on its southeast coast, i.e., to intervene in Chinese military operations against Taiwan.86 Their view is that ‘‘destroying and jamming space borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help us [the PRC] win the war in space.’’87 The PLA is also aware of the most advanced U.S. synthetic aperture radar imaging systems and are thinking through how to neutralize or jam them.88 The problem in this reasoning is that there is no consideration given to a likely American reaction to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by the U.S. is that it might well think it is coming under immediate attack and launch its own strike against China’s strategic missile forces. Another reasonable reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground based laser or direct ascent launch. Even if such a reaction by the U.S. used conventional weapons, the PLA may find it has created a deeper crisis that led to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists, like Cai, advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to U.S. Air Force Space Command manual AFM 2–2.1, Space Warfare and Countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of ‘‘space deterrence’’ to counter American space superiority. 89 For Huang, this shift toward space deterrence mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.90 Huang defines this as ‘‘the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent’s space power to deter that opponent in a practical way.’’91 The goal of this concept of deterrence is to increase the PLA’s power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary’s power.92 The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one’s own economic, military, and science and technology power to ‘‘ruin an opponent’s economy and ability to function in space.’’93 The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the 11 January 2007 destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA’s own direct ascent kill vehicle is clear when interpreted through this concept of demonstrating space deterrence.94 As Huang concedes, for a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability. A deterrent must be demonstrated. It is also important to note that effective space deterrence, as conceived by this writer, includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4SIR systems. In the future, there could be other examples of space deterrence to let the U.S. and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. The PLA could demonstrate various forms of jamming. In doing so, the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Chinese journals do discuss maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to accidental collisions between space bodies. China could deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they still would demonstrate a space deterrent capability. Conclusions There are a number of important findings to this research effort. First, in th`e event of conflict with the PLA, military operations carried out across all the domains of war, ground, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum, or information- and cyber-warfare, are likely. Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated cyber or information attack on an enemy’s knowledge and command systems. Second, there will probably be strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise, in any future conflict between China and the U.S. Prior to direct conflict, the PLA and the Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions by conducting what it calls legal warfare.95 Third, the concept of legal warfare will be applied by the PRC Foreign Ministry, the security services, Chinese Communist Party liaison Department, and the PLA to exploit political divisions in the U.S. over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems. Fourth, the PLA will seek to exercise space control in a limited area of conflict. The PLA will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of commons in space, over 100,000 m, in peacetime. If direct conflict breaks out, altitude limits on space control are off, and any systems carrying adversary military traffic or signals are probably fair game for the PLA. U.S. Navy Secretary Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August 2007, said that the U.S. still wants to understand what the Chinese intention is in its military modernization.96 This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions. There are a number of China’s activities and policy positions coming from Beijing that make it hard to interpret Chinese intent. Among these are: China’s expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of armed force to reinforce these claims;97 the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space outlined in this paper; and the shaping of the ‘‘space battlefield’’ with legal arguments that would justify China’s actions to prevent space observation over its territory. The U.S. has taken a course with China that is far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach with the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Both states are heavily involved in trade, economic, and political engagements with each other. Nonetheless, both states are wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and there exist some deep fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. The U.S. and the Soviet Union seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other’s free passage in space. Also, they agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance. No such dialogue has taken place with China. The PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. Often, senior military or Chinese Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a cold war mentality.98 Yet discussions on these issues are important to clarify the rationales for America’s positions on space and serve as threat reduction measures. Although China’s intentions are not fully known, they can be inferred from Chinese actions, like the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its own weather satellite as a demonstration of capability. PRC intentions can also be inferred from judicious reviews of its military literature. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its military literature, it is clear that China’s leaders are preparing as though they may have to fight the U.S. To this end, the PLA is busily preparing the space battlefield in advance with legal arguments, as called for in its doctrine. As a result, there are very sound reasons to prepare to defend American interests in space, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict.__

__China is preparing to bring down U.S space assets—they have incentives to attack__

__**Daily Tech 11-17-11-[Gov't Report Warns of Chinese Plans to Cripple U.S. Space Defenses Jason Mick - November 17, 2011 7:13 PM http://www.dailytech.com/Govt+Report+Warns+of+Chinese+Plans+to+Cripple+US+Space+Defenses/article23314.htm]jt**__
__**III. Chinese Counterspace: Kryptonite to U.S. Military Space Edge**__

__**China still weaker than the U.S. in space logistical capabilities (communications, surveillance, etc.), according to the expert panel: Despite pockets of considerable capabilities, China has weak or moderate military space capabilities in other areas. China has few communications satellites available for military purposes, even assuming that the PLA would appropriate Chinese government-controlled assets during a crisis. That weakness could be lessened given its reliance on low-bandwidth devices and its strong underground internet cable network in local conflicts: Many PLA military platforms have modest bandwidth requirements, which, when combined with the PLA’s heavy reliance on buried fiber-optic military communications networks, may offset this disadvantage in the context of a potential, near-term U.S.-China contingency on China’s periphery. But at present, the nation would be at a disadvantage in long range conflicts with the U.S.: However, naval forces at sea and ground forces operating outside the Chinese mainland (even as close as Taiwan) would still require secure, mobile communications for military functions such as command and control. The report suggests China may invest in new satellite or drone capabilities to remedy that weakness. In the near term, though the U.S.'s advantage could be negated by China's cyberprowess and investigation into "hard" counterspace options (pg. 218): China's counterspace programs seek the capability to compromise, disrupt, deny, degrade, deceive, or destroy U.S. space assets. These efforts could prevent the U.S. military’s use of space for functions such as communications; intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; and guided weapons applications. This opinion is reinforced with quotes from top military leaders (pg. 218): Notwithstanding China’s increasing reliance on space for military and civil purposes, Chinese military planners still view space assets as an attractive target. Ambassador Schulte testified that with "geography the way it is, we are probably always going to find ourselves more reliant on space than [China] . . . so for the foreseeable future, that’s an asymmetry they’re going to look to exploit as they pursue an antiaccess/area denial approach." According to General Deptula, "Continued Chinese investment in the design, development, deployment and employment of space and counterspace systems will increasingly challenge our traditional space dominance and could dramatically reduce our freedom of action in the event of a conflict in the region." The report points to China preparing a two pronged approach to attack the U.S.'s space capabilties. The first approach is to use traditional attacks like missiles or orbitters to physically assault enemy satellites (the so-called "hard" attack). A second "soft" attack approach involves instead using cyberattacks to cripple or interfere with foreign satellites. China could bring the U.S. "down to its level" technologically with targeted counterspace strikes. [Image Source: U.S. Air Force] On the hybrid hard-attack/soft-attack approach, the authors state (pg. 216): Chinese military theorists take a holistic view of counterspace operations. They advocate for the use of both "soft" kill (i.e., informational, temporary, or reversible) attacks and "hard" kill (i.e., destructive or permanently disabling) attacks against every aspect of space power: ground-based systems, space-based systems, and communications links. In other words, China is actively preparing redundant options to bring the U.S. down to its level in terms of space combat readiness.**__

__**Lack of knowledge about the PLA, internal docs and new dual use capabilities mean we have to assume the worst- even the CCP indicates intent to weaponize space**__

__**The Space Review, 10/31 (Danny Houpt for the Space Review, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program” on October 31, 2011 from http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1, )**__
__**Military space missions Little is known about the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) actual capability to wage war in space. What has been demonstrated, however, including the 2007 ASAT test and reports of China blinding US intelligence satellites, has caused much consternation across the world. One aspect of Chinese military aspirations in space that has been studied is the internal publications of the PLA and its stated views on space doctrine. Increasingly, these writings have accepted the inevitability of the weaponization of space and called for appropriate preparations to be made to successfully wage war in space. Given the dual-use nature of most space technology, it is no surprise that China’s military uses of space are advancing commensurately with its civilian and commercial programs. First of all, China is widely known to have an array of intelligence satellites for space reconnaissance and surveillance. The Ziyuan Earth observation satellite is known to be one of these, but China has also fielded the Fanhui Shi Weixing, or Retrievable Satellite, which drops canisters of film from space.15 China’s ongoing microsatellite program has sparked some of the most concern abroad. Aside from intelligence satellites, microsatellites have many potential offensive uses such as maneuvering in range of an adversary’s satellite and either latching on—a “parasitic microsat”—to disrupt proper functions, or merely exploding within range of a target satellite to destroy it. Furthermore, the ability to deploy a constellation of microsatellites on short notice, a capability China may already possess with its Kaituozhe launch vehicle, denies the deterrence factor that could otherwise prevent offensive attacks on an adversary’s space assets for fear of retaliation. China’s rocket technology also has proven offensive military use in space: the ability to shoot down enemy assets in space through direct ascent attacks. China demonstrated such ability in 2007, which has been the impetus for much of the recent speculation about China’s military space aspirations. Despite political blowback from this test (it resulted in a 20 percent increase in the total amount of trackable space debris in low Earth orbit), China may still be pursuing ASAT technologies.16 In January 2010 China conducted a successful test of its ground-based midcourse missile interception technology. This test used technology similar to its 2007 ASAT test and, as exemplified by the US Navy-led Operation Burnt Frost that intercepted the satellite USA 193, missile defense technology can serve ASAT ends. In addition to these hard-kill capabilities, China has the capability to use soft-kill measures to neutralize adversary’s space assets. China is known to have the means to jam satellite communication and GPS receivers and is developing directed energy ASATs, including high-powered microwave and particle beam weapons.17 The US Department of Defense (DoD), in their annual report to Congress on China’s military modernization, also notes that China is developing ground-based laser ASATs, the beginnings of which may have already been demonstrated. In 2006 the director of the National Reconnaissance Office, Donald Kerr, substantiated reports that China used a ground-based laser to dazzle a US spy satellite over its territory. Although this laser could not do any long-term damage, similar techniques and capabilities used to track and dazzle this satellite could be coupled with more powerful ground-based lasers to destroy space assets. Some reports actually indicate China has already tested and deployed a ground-based ASAT laser that can target assets in LEO.18 Despite the array of activity the PLA conducts in and through space, they seem to lack a specific doctrine for the employment of their space capabilities and have not made public any substantial plans for military uses of space. In lieu of a formal declaration on space, there is a growing literature from within the PLA ranks that may be forming the basis for what later becomes stated—or unstated—PLA space doctrine. These authors generally hold the same assumptions about space, including the inevitability that space will be a domain of war in the future.19 Many also acknowledge that establishing space dominance will be crucial to fully exploiting wartime necessities such as control of airspace and secure command and control.20 Three internal Chinese sources are largely cited as being the defining PLA space doctrine writings: Space War by Colonel Li Daguang; On Space Operations by Colonel Jia Junming; and Joint Space War Campaigns by Colonel Yuan Zelu.21 Colonel Li highlights many specific recommendations to develop the PLA’s space fighting capabilities, including fielding offensive capabilities capable of “destroying or temporarily incapacitating all enemy space vehicles that fly in space above our sovereign territory.” Other recommendations include focusing development on land-based anti-satellite weapons and anti-satellite satellites as well as “assassin’s mace” space weapons that could deal a crippling blow to an enemy. Particularly important to foreign perceptions of China, these writings also call for China to combine military and civilian technology and integrate peacetime and wartime facilities. Other authors on the subject promote such actions as: fielding sea-launched anti-satellite weapons, attacking GPS with high energy laser weapons, fielding stealthy space satellites and weapons, and seeking the ability to attack terrestrial targets from space. Kevin Pollpeter, summing up the view of most Chinese authors writing on the subject, writes, “The development of space technology will inevitably lead to the militarization of space and space militarization will lead to confrontation in space. As the struggle over air and space control is becoming the new focal point of war, space will become the main battlefield of future wars.”22 Pollpeter also notes that throughout his extensive review of Chinese space writings, there were no rebuttals to the view that China will inevitability develop and use counterspace weapons. These views also seem to be held by some in the upper echelons of the PLA. In November 2009, PLA Air Force (PLAAF) commander Xu Qiliang stated in an interview with the PLA Daily newspaper, an official government publication, that the militarization of space is a “historical inevitability” and called on the PLAAF to develop offensive and defensive capabilities in space.23 Xu is not only the head of the PLAAF, but as of 2007 was a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (CCCP) and a member of the Central Military Commission (CMC)—two primary policy decision making bodies in China. The Foreign Ministry tried to backtrack on Xu’s comments days later by reiterating that China has “all along upheld the peaceful use of outer space,” and would not be part of a space arms race.24 However, Xu did not personally retract his statements and, given his elite government position, this interview could actually be exemplary of how some of China’s top official’s views space. Indeed, there is some indication the CCCP acknowledges the need to prepare for the weaponization of space. In December 2010, the official publication of the CCCP, the Qiushi Journal, on its website released an article that spoke to China’s perspectives on space war: China's missiles can directly attack the military satellites, which usually orbit at an altitude less than 10,000 kilometers...China should make efforts to develop space weapons as soon as possible, as this is the most effective military means of attacking the U.S. If we can eventually fire missiles from a satellite, the U.S. will find that it has nowhere to hide; it will find itself entirely exposed to the attack radius of Chinese weaponry…Vigorously strengthening the building of our space military forces should be not only the focus of our national defense, but also the most powerful weapon to deter U.S. military blackmail.25 After the article was translated into English, the original Chinese version was altered to state that the views were those of the authors only. In a society well versed in controlling media and hiding military intentions, it is interesting the Chinese government is allowing these and other perspectives to be published containing such inflammatory language on space warfare. This suggests that perhaps the views are not condemned or are being floated as trial balloons to gauge foreign response.**__

__**The risk of crisis instability and miscalc is high – the PLA is isolated from the Chinese government**__
__**MacDonald 11 –[ Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis]**__

__**One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the result of miscalculation that ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, the PLA's senior officer corps trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They have much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. This means that the PLA overall views world events from a less knowledgeable and sophisticated perspective, a danger in this increasingly complex world, and could explain, for example, the political "tonedeafness" of the PLA in the manner they conducted their 2007 ASAT test. This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that the PLA is organizationally separate from the rest of the Chinese government, and reports only to the Central Military Commission, currently chaired by President Hu Jintao. President Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background, and the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. government. Normally this would not be too great a concern, but in a crisis this could be dangerous. Add to this the fact that China has no equivalent of our National Security Council, a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking, and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure. In a crisis, the PLA probably cannot be counted on to show as sophisticated a sense of judgment as one would hope any country's military leaders, even an enemy's, to show. All these problems and many more pose potential threats to internal political stability and Communist Party control, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space Space assets, and the communications and cyber links that enable them to function, are the means by which essential national security information is either generated, transmitted, or both. This information is the lifeblood of U.S. conventional military superiority and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture as well. As such, these space related assets represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict, and their relative vulnerability can provide dangerously attractive incentives in a crisis to preempt, escalating to war. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise: going first in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary appears to offer many advantages, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems. Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space when "going first" pays off - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours. We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.**__


__**That crushes deterrence and risks miscalc and nuclear escalation**__

__**Burke 6 – [Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]**__


__**The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services; the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets. One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland or an attack that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US.44 Although a major attack on the US is not likely, the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a devastating miscalculation that the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike. The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also weakens conventional deterrence. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, the Chinese might seek to disrupt or destroy regional space capabilities as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a fait accompli.45 A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49 The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “Space capabilities are no longer nice to have, but are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars.”51 The failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets. The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52 Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives. The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces. Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability. The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55 Today, other nations are working to develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to take the lead in what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—information war. The current coverage gaps in our space surveillance network, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons without our knowledge. Finally, without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is to deter an attack on US space assets. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. A senior officer in US Strategic Command recently stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57**__

__**Even rogue states could take out US assets**__

__**Smith, 11 – [USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]**__
__**Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute of the dominant powers in the world today. Special attention must be paid to so-called rogue states that have access to space-related technology and may even be spacefaring but do not have the conventional forces to achieve their policy aims. Those aims tend to be very intense, and these players may seek space weapons as an asymmetric hedge against spacefaring adversaries who may try to coerce them. The dominant military powers in the world, some of whom are potential adversaries, also tend to be the dominant spacefaring states. Because of the economic benefits and exponential enhancements that spacepower delivers to terrestrial warfighting, those states are under increasing pressure to defend their space systems and to counter those of their potential adversaries. This may lead to a space weapons race and an immediate escalation of hostilities to "wipe the skies" of enemy satellites should war break out between two or more dominant military space powers.29 When assessing the interplay between the spectrum of conflict and the spectrum of belligerents, it may be the case that war between two weak actors will not likely extend into space. However, if the power is perceived to be disparate, a weak actor is far more likely to use space weapons against a powerful state as an asymmetric defensive move.30 A powerful state may counter the space systems in use by a weaker adversary, but it is likely to do so by placing diplomatic pressure on commercial vendors, or executing attacks on their ground stations, or launching highly selective covert attacks on the satellites they use by employing temporary and reversible means. Should two dominant spacefaring powers go directly to war with each other with intense motives, both will find it critical to preserve their space systems and will consider it a dangerous liability to allow their enemy to exploit theirs. Given the ability of spacepower to cut the fog and friction of war while connecting military forces at the tactical, operational, and strategic level, it is likely that space systems will be primary targets that will be negated in the opening moves of war. The fight for space is likely to be intense and brief. Temporary means of negation will likely switch to permanent methods of destruction to remove doubt in the minds of commanders.**__


__**Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony**__

__**Marshall 8 –[ NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A**__

__**MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science]**__
__**Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’ of the current military capability of the United States (U.S.). This is for two reasons: (1) the U.S. military space systems—in particular reconnaissance, navigation, signals intelligence, early warning, and communications systems—are critical to modern military warfare and intelligence; and (2) space systems are inherently vulnerable to attack. This combination is understood at the highest levels and was espoused in the ‘‘Rumsfeld Space Commission’’ with talk of a ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor.’’1 Whether one agrees with the tone, this is a genuine security problem for the U.S. in need of a near-term solution. While there have been numerous papers, and much media and academic attention, in the space security discussion focused on promoting or criticizing space-based weapons,2 there have been far fewer papers and studies offering constructive ways forward that deal with these genuine security concerns in a broader sense.3 The central motivation for this paper is to put forward one key element—the satellite architecture—in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of U.S. space assets. It is hoped that this idea, together with others like it, should stimulate and contribute to a debate on more constructive ways forward for how to achieve space security in the post-Cold war world. Importance of Space Assets For better or worse, it is clear that the U.S. military is to some significant extent dependent on its key satellites, which number about 86–105 operational satellites at present. These satellites constitute a significant part of the eyes, ears, and central nervous system of the modern military.4 A practical example that helps to illustrate this is the case of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. First, the decision to go was based in part on satellite imagery and signals intelligence from satellites; whether or not it was interpreted or used correctly is a separate issue. Second, the planning and operation were facilitated by satellite imagery. Third, many planes, ships, tanks, and units’ positions were known through Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, and even most munitions were guided by GPS. Fourth, the operation was commanded from the U.S. in large part through the use of communications satellites. Perhaps more importantly than any of the functions in the Iraq example, early warning (EW) satellites are the U.S.’s and Russia’s first warning of nuclear missile attack. As Gray classified, space assets have moved from being ‘‘useful and important’’ to an ‘‘indispensable adjunct’’ in the military over the last decade.5 Space assets are definitely used a great deal by the U.S. military, but that does not mean necessarily as strong a dependence as Gray implies. The loss of U.S. space assets could range in its effect anywhere from a loss to the U.S. military in practical operations, to being catastrophic to U.S. security. The former would entail a reduction in operational effectiveness or speed, but fundamentally supposes that back-up systems and/or redundancy allow a near continuation of military capability. The latter scenario would entail an effective disablement of the U.S. military capability from normal operations. In reality, the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.**__

__**Heg solves conflict, trade, and cooperation**__

__**Zhang* and Shi** 11-[Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and **Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]__
__Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.__

__Commitment to ORS is vital to deterrence by denial – it will prevent attacks against US space assets__

__Sejba 10 – [USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]__
__The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,” no longer is a sanctuary outside the reach of foreign intervention. The threat to space systems and their capabilities is broad, ranging from reversible effects such as jamming or blinding, to more destructive means such as anti-satellite weapons. It is now time to take actions for the sake of space, and assure its continued contributions across the full spectrum of military operations. Given the criticality of space to not only our military power, but also our economic power, it is time we develop policies and field capabilities to deter future adversaries from attempting to degrade, deny, or destroy space capabilities and services. The asymmetric advantages enabled by space can no longer be assumed and as a result, a new National Security Strategy for space must be forged, one that combines deterrence with basic protection capabilities never before afforded our space systems. Yet, space deterrence is not an “all in” strategy, nor can it reduce the risk of attack to zero.1 Should aspects of deterrence fail, we must take steps to defend and protect our space systems and the critical global services they provide. Operationally responsive space (ORS) by definition is “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of joint force commanders’ needs.”2 Dissected further, one key word stands out: assured … being sufficiently robust, timely, agile, adaptive, and resilient, to achieve desired outcomes with a high degree of certainty.3 So while ORS intends to provide operational and tactical support to the joint warfighter, its true value will be the assurance it provides as a credible strategic deterrent against space attacks. As a deterrent, ORS provides access to existing capabilities, or rapid deployment and employment of new capabilities, denying the benefits our adversaries may seek by attacking our space capabilities. Through timely and accurate intelligence, we can work to understand our adversaries’ intent and armed with this knowledge, we gain the opportunity to influence their decision-making calculus. Understanding intent, coupled with credible and timely ORS capabilities, can effectively deny or greatly reduce the benefits they seek by attacking the asymmetric advantages enabled by space. ORS provides a responsiveness that will allow the commander, US Strategic Command (CDR USSTRATCOM), to respond and support our combatant commands real-time and near-term requirements. To support these requirements, ORS consists of three tiers of capabilities: Tier 1, the employment of existing capabilities within minutes to hours; Tier 2, the rapid call-up, launch and deployment of tailored, ready to field capabilities within days to weeks; and finally, Tier 3, the rapid development of a new capability to meet a combatant commander’s joint urgent operational need within months to a year. The Unified Command Plan assigns CDR USSTRATCOM the responsibility for all military space. The space systems under his authority and control provide our warfighters increased speed, precision, and lethality in military operations. In 2007, during an Air Force Association speech in Los Angeles, California, General C. Robert Kehler, commander, Air Force Space Command and former deputy commander, USSTRATCOM, stated that the biggest difference between 25 years ago and today, was that “space today is embedded in combat operations.”4 ORS’ strategic deterrent value has the potential to be just as important to future combat operations. Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When Applied to Space For years, deterrence theory centered solely on nuclear deterrence strategies, which relied heavily on threats of punishment and unacceptable losses or mutually assured destruction. These strategies effectively deterred the use of nuclear weapons throughout the Cold War to present day. However, strategies of threatening devastating nuclear retaliation do not apply to space. In fact, a deterrence strategy that includes the threat of punishment (i.e., impose cost) should be just one, if not a limited aspect of deterrence for space. For almost half a century, nuclear deterrence strategies formed the foundation for the Cold War waged between the US and the former Soviet Union. Both superpowers relied on the threat of nuclear weapons to deter even conventional military actions, for fear of rapid escalation. In its most unlimited form, mutual assured destruction was a key deterrence strategy; a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both the attacker and the defender.5 While nuclear weapons continue to be a strategic deterrent, the same destructive thought process and strategy is not directly applicable to space.6 Today, some theorists focus and apply more punishing or destructive deterrence practices and thinking to the space domain. They view credible deterrence in space as relying upon the threat of punishment against an aggressor; going so far as to suggest that an attack against us could be countered with an attack in kind. One specific definition limits deterrence to an “attempt to persuade an adversary by threat of force (and other measures) not to pursue an undesirable course of action.”7 Another theorist states, “Deterrence can only succeed if the enemy finds the threat of punishment to be believable.”8 These approaches are less likely to deter for space, especially given our dependence upon the domain. For example, destroying an adversary’s satellite, especially one in an operational orbit, would create a large debris field, potentially hampering or denying our own ability to access space. Instead, deterrence for space can only succeed if our enemies believe we have credible means of denying the benefits they seek to gain. Space deterrence theory should focus on credible ways and means to deny an enemy the benefits they seek; impose costs on our adversaries (against their most prized assets);9 and encourage their restraint. A New Focus of Deterrence What does deterrence look like in the 21st century? The US has not yet figured that out, said Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “You need something that deters a conflict, and you need more choices than just nuclear. ~ Sandra I. Erwin, Future of War—How the Game is Changing … Our deterrence strategy no longer rests primarily on the grim premise of inflicting devastating consequences on potential foes.… ~ US National Security Strategy, 2006 In fact, the US does have new and plausible thoughts on 21st century deterrence. Authored under the leadership of General Cartwright, then commander of USSTRATCOM, and signed out in December 2006, the Deterrence Operations Joint Operating Concept (DO-JOC) is the Department of Defense’s (DoD) latest view on deterrence. This approach extends beyond traditional nuclear deterrence theory, which dates back to the heralded days of Strategic Air Command. The DO-JOC states that the purpose or objective of deterrence operations is to “convince adversaries not to take actions that threaten US vital interests by means of decisive influence over their decision-making.”10 In order to influence our adversaries’ decision-making calculus, it focuses on and integrates three key elements: Deny the benefits the adversary seeks; impose costs the adversary fears; and encourage adversary restraint (by convincing them that restraint will result in an acceptable outcome).11 Of these three elements, denying the benefit should be our focus when fielding new ORS capabilities. Deterrence today can only succeed if our adversaries find ORS credible enough to enable military operations even in a contested environment. Deny the Benefits—ORS Tier 1 and Tier 2 Examples People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space: Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict. ~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12 The purpose to benefit denial is to convince an adversary that their intent will not be achieved, or have little to no value. Today, our ability to field ORS capabilities is minimal at best, and unconvincing as a credible deterrent. Instead, our adversaries likely perceive great benefit in attempting to deny the US’ space capabilities. These benefits, also referred to as “vulnerabilities gaps,”13 are reasons why we must pursue ORS with an increased sense of urgency. However, for benefit denial to be viewed as a credible deterrent, the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Study states “our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack.”14 The space and cyberspace domains are increasingly important to how current and future wars will be fought and won. As recently as 4 November 2009, the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) top Air Force Commander, Xu Qiliang, called the militarization of space an “historical inevitability.”15 This statement came on the heels of an historic visit to USSTRATCOM by General Xu Chihou, one of two vice chairmen of the PRC’s Central Military Commission. During this visit, General Kevin P. Chilton encouraged increased cooperation and comprehensive bilateral relationships between the two space-faring nations.16 Statements from Qiliang and actions such as the 2007 anti-satellite test highlight a growing disconnect between the PRC’s actions and stated policies, increasing concern amongst US leaders and lending credence to the need for new deterrence practices. Moving forward, to be a true deterrent, ORS must also win the race to space in both the speed and cost of fielding capability versus our adversaries’ attempts to counter, destroy, or deny them. Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible role in deterring adverse actions against our space capabilities: (1) International cooperation and partnerships through shared space capabilities (Tier 1) and (2) the ability to rapidly augment or replace some aspect of existing on-orbit ISR assets in low Earth orbit (Tier 2). Tier 1 and Two ORS capabilities can be deployed and employed rapidly, within hours to days. The cost for Tier 1 includes implementing new concept of operations for deployed on-orbit systems, or the rapid, low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2.__
__Expanding ORS will deter attacks against US space assets__

__Putman 9 – USAF Major, operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,__

__DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron (Christopher, “Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event__
__The United States has taken some initial steps to improve its defensive capabilities. The DoD stood up the joint Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Office on May 21,2007 at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico. The ORS effort seeks to meet emerging warfighter needs with new space capabilities. Ron Sega, DoD executive agent for space, stated that efforts will focus on the "ability to launch, activate and employ low-cost military-useful satellites, provide, search capability, reconstitute and augment existing capability, while providing timely availabilities of tailor-made, unique capabilities. ,,39 Further, the DoD's Plan for Operationally Responsive Space highlighted the need to increase "situational awareness and adaptability to the threat, as well as an ability to evolve the total suite of space capabilities to address emerging threats in new ways.,,40 The Commander of United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM) detailed three efforts vital to execute the plan: rapidly develop technological and operational innovations, rapidly modify or supplement existing systems to increase capabilities, and rapidly reconstitute space systems when necessary to maintain capability.41 Initial focus on capabilities will be on ISR and communication satellites, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid launch capabilities, and command and control. 42 The ORS effort will use a three tier capability approach to meet warfighter needs. Tier-1 implements activities immediately-to-days using existing or on-orbit systems. Tier-2 utilizes field-ready systems in days-to-weeks to provide rapid exploitation, augmentation or reconstitution of space capabilities. Finally, Tier-3 solutions take months-to-one year to satisfy needs while capabilities are modified or developed and then deployed.43 The ORS implementation timeline envisions eight tactical satellite demonstrators through fiscal year 2013. As of January 2009, two demonstrators have been launched with the third delayed from a scheduled spring 2009 launch due to technical issues. The program timeline also includes tests of operational employment and integration, command and control, and launch vehicles. The ORS program office recently purchased the first three launch vehicle specifically procured for ORS with launches scheduled for 2010 and 2011. Finally, the DoD expects the "Chiliworks" facility at Kirtland Air Force Base, which will focus onTier-2 satellite fielding, to be fully operational by 2015.44 While there are other ongoing efforts within the Intelligence Community and the DoD45 , ORS provides a good starting point for implementation of recommendations within this paper. The ORS plan identifies the need for both anticipatory and reactive elements. ORS planners should focus on the Chinese threat to build capabilities to fit within the Tier-1 and Tier-2 categories. The conflict with China would have to extend past a year to make use ofTier-3 capabilities. The United States must anticipate Chinese actions and have field-ready systems ready for either preemptive or immediate reactive use. Field-ready systems would provide a credible defensive deterrent against existing and likely Chinese offensive anti-satellite actions. PROPOSED DEFENSIVE ACTIONS The United States can choose from a wide variety of options to develop a defensive strategy to counter the Chinese threat to LEO satellites. The comprehensive approach should address space situational awareness (SSA), preplanned satellite actions, launch capability, small satellites, decreased dependence on space systems, nuclear explosion protection, institutional changes, transparency, and engagement. Space Situational Awareness Improving SSA is essential to the success of this strategy. The United States must have a comprehensive knowledge of all objects in orbit. Although the United States maintains a significant Space Surveillance Network (SSN) network, it lacks coverage in key areas and the capability to comprehensively predict the orbits of all objects in space; the February 10, 2009 collision between an Iridium commercial satellite and a Russian military satellite caught the SSN by surprise.46 The United States could build more fixed ground sites, but this would be limited by host country permissions and fiscal constraints. As a near term improvement to coverage, the United States should leverage the US Navy's AEGIS cruiser and destroyer-based radars into its SSN. The AEGIS radar highlighted its space surveillance capability when it tracked a decaying US satellite, enabling its destruction by a US anti-satellite weapon in 2008.47 While the Navy assets need to train and execute their primary mission, they could be given alternate tasking to search and track objects in LEO. This would entail development of procedures between services. Further, integration of land and space-based missile warning sensors into the SSN would yield benefits in the event of an anti-satellite launch. Finally, the United States should continue to pursue satellite as a sensor technology, where the satellite has the ability to self-identify and report on attacks. Improved SSA also allows the United States to characterize the resultant debris field of an anti-satellite attack and thus support reactive measures that may be required by other satellites. Intelligence Directly related to improved SSA is a robust intelligence effort that focuses on Chinese anti-satellite activity. Indications and warning may include increased communication at tracking stations, deployment of mobile tracking stations, and fueling and dispersal of launch vehicles. Identification and reporting of Chinese anti-satellite preparations would enable execution of preemptive defensive actions by the United States. Preplanned Satellite Actions Establishing preplanned actions is key to deterring and reacting to an anti-satellite attack. While the time from launch to impact for the SC-19 is on the order of minutes, intelligence of an impending launch can lengthen the timeline for taking preemptive defensive actions. While limited on-board fuel prevents large orbital maneuvers, a one-time small change to a satellite's orbit is possible. These orbital maneuvers must be executed before the launch of the anti-satellite weapon. Changes in orbit will produce a discrepancy between the anticipated satellite location and the final satellite tracking just prior to launch. The inconsistency may cause the Chinese to doubt the quality of their data and delay the launch as they develop new orbital tracking data, thus opening a window for additional US actions to prevent a launch. However, if the Chinese did decide to launch without updating their data, the slight change in orbit may cause the antisatellite weapon to miss. These same procedures would also be effective against ground-based anti-satellite weapons; a maneuver could lead to a laser missing the target. Having preplanned actions ready to execute provides United States planners another option. If a conflict looks to be inevitable, they could decide to rapidly execute minor maneuvers across satellite constellations. While not only complicating the Chinese targeting process, this could serve as non-destructive shot across the bow. If the conflict escalates into a conventional war, the single maneuver may buy the United States enough time to execute a kinetic strike that would dismantle the Chinese anti-satellite program. The importance of these strikes would move the priority high on the targeting list. Here again, intelligence is a key enabler. Targets must be accurately located, vetted, and updated to enable quick strikes on the anti-satellite targets. Variable and Rapid Launch Capability The current United States Department of Defense launch complex does not have the capability to rapidly replenish satellites in the event of destruction. Launch preparation and execution can take weeks to months. The United States must adopt rapid and flexible commercial launch technologies. Of at least equal importance to having a rapid launch capability is a launch system that deploys satellites from varying locations. When launched from the traditional space ports of Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg Air Force Base, China can easily monitor the launch and quickly determine the initial orbit and possibly satellite type. Having a capability that can unpredictably launch from unmonitored locations will delay China's ability to track and identify United States satellites, greatly inhibiting their ability to target satellites. This capability could be sea-based, where monitoring by an adversary is more difficult. The capability could also be airborne, like the Pegasus program which has successfully launched satellites using an L-I0ll aircraft from California, Virginia, Florida, the Canary Islands, and the Marshall Islands. 48 Small Satellites The United States must also make a move towards smaller satellites that use a common bus and architecture. A single launch vehicle could then deploy multiple small satellites, allowing the rapid establishment of a new constellation at the beginning of a conflict or replenishment of an old one. China would then face a dilemma as to which satellites they would attack. If China does decide to attack, the impact would be proportionately smaller because they would take out a lesser percentage of the constellation. The Iridium collision demonstrated the ability of a large constellation to absorb the loss of single satellite with minimal degradation. 49 Having numerous small satellites ready to launch can also lesson the need to perform defensive orbital maneuvers, as they can be quickly replenished. Finally, small satellites are inherently harder to track whether by radar or optical telescopes. While a requirement for large satellites remains; small satellites will help protect and complement the large satellites. Key to developing small satellites is a common command and control (C2) network regardless of function, rather than today's stovepiped C2 that are unique for each satellite type. A common bus and C2 system can also support small satellites by relying on a cross-linked network to control satellites and download mission data from a central location rather than on ground stations distributed around the globe. Decreased Dependence on Space Systems The United States must decrease its dependence on space systems, making attack on satellites a less appealing target. United States military forces should have weapons and procedures that can function with or without satellite support. For example, high altitude unmanned aerial vehicles can and should complement, and potentially replace, the LEO satellite ISR mission. Countering High-altitude Nuclear Explosions Although the possibility of a HANE may be remote, defense against the long term radiation effects must focus on hardening all future satellites against nuclear explosions. Without hardening, depending on the size of the constellation, satellite replenishment could take months and quickly exhaust satellite spares even with rapid reaction launch capabilities. Building satellites to withstand the nuclear weapon radiation effects beyond that required against the natural environment would add only 2 to 3 percent to total satellite cost.50 Consideration may be given to forgoing hardening for satellites designed for a short (days to weeks) lifetime; one should consider the radiation from a nuclear explosion may remain for up to two years, precluding the launch of non-hardened satellites into the affected orbital regime. 51 While some government low-earth orbit satellites are already hardened, the United States should harden all future satellites. Institutional Changes Changes must be properly incorporated into the DoD infrastructure to be effective. All aspects of doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities must be examined. Additionally, the changes must work across many organizations within the DoD and throughout the United States government. For example, STRATCOM should run comprehensive anti-satellite exercises that incorporate all applicable services and agencies, from the satellite operator to the end user. Transparency The above actions may deter China from further pursuing its anti-satellite programs, but only if executed in a transparent manner. Systems must be fully trained and tested; the United States must overtly demonstrate its capability to rapidly deploy satellites. China must be made fully aware of US capabilities to effectively counter its anti-satellite weapons. China may then realize that its actions will have minimal effect on US military capabilities. Engagement Beyond using a military response to protect government satellites, the United States should consider a holistic approach to China's anti-satellite capabilities by using the other elements of national power: diplomatic, information, and economic. China's current reliance on space is minimal when compared to the United States. China can therefore afford to use antisatellite weapons against the United States. Increased Chinese reliance on space would provide significant deterrents to Chinese use ofcertain weapons such as direct ascent, co-orbital, and nuclear, since collateral damage from these weapons would affect China. First, the United States should engage on Chinese proposed treaties limiting space weapons. Next, the United States should work to build Chinese economic dependence on space systems, while taking appropriate measures to limit technology transfer. With a gap between the Space Shuttle and Ares launch vehicles, an opportunity exists to bring China in as a partner on the International Space Station by providing equipment launch services. Working with China to build its reliance on and participation in space activities will help build deterrence to the use of anti-satellite weapons; the collateral effects would harm its own interests. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS While this paper focuses on LEO satellites, the same rigor must also be applied to medium Earth orbit (MEO), highly elliptical orbit (REO), and geosynchronous (GEO) orbit satellites. Although current direct ascent anti-satellite capability can only reach LEO, China's ballistic• missile and space launch vehicles could reach higher orbits. Additionally, China has orbited GEO satellites which could already be carrying co-orbital anti-satellite weapons. China has expressed interest in combating the MEO GPS system through both kinetic and non-kinetic attacks.52 China is also actively developing jamming capabilities to combat United States military communications satellites found predominately in GEO. Additionally, the proposed defensive measures will do more than support deterrence against China. Numerous nations will seek to emulate Chinese actions with kinetic and nonkinetic options. In response to the recent anti-satellite activity of China and the United States, Russia announced the resumption of its anti-satellite weapons program.53 Ground-based actions such as jamming are within the realm of many nations and individuals. One only need look at the hijacking of the HBO satellite signal by "Capt Midnight" as an example of a single individual being able to steal a satellite transponder, in effect jamming the intended signal. 54 Further, proliferation of nuclear weapon and ballistic missile technology make the use of a HANE attractive to a rogue nation or terrorist nation that has little reliance on space capabilities. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency suggests this scenario as a possible last act of defiance by North Korean forces facing defeat,55 Lastly, these measures can be used to combat natural phenomena, such as a meteor shower or solar storms that can damage satellite systems. “A strategy that ensures access to and use of space is useful in times of peace just as in times of war, since space systems that provide critical services may fail or become inoperative in the absence of hostile action.”56 Finally, the United States must not stop at applying these recommendations merely to military satellites. While government satellites are critical in a conflict, commercial satellites in all orbital regimes have become an integral part of military operations to include weather, imaging, and communications. Although tightly tied to the world economy, China could decide to expand its anti-satellite program to attack the economic interests of the United States. While commercial satellites companies typically incorporate protective measures against natural threats, the United States government should share best practices and provide incentives to commercial entities to protect themselves against human threats. The government could do this through requirements to obtain licensing or guaranteed govemment contracts to companies that comply. CONCLUSION The fundamental U.S. security interest in the wake of China's 2007 anti-satellite test should be deterring China and others from attacking U.S. assets in space, using both a combination of declaratory policy, military programs, and diplomacy, and promoting a more stable and secure space environment.57 Council on Foreign Relations The United States government requires a comprehensive plan to counter the threat to its LEO systems posed by Chinese anti-satellite weapons. Failing to protect these key satellites would severely degrade US military capabilities in a conflict with China. The United States should rely on a defensive space strategy to deter Chinese anti-satellite actions. The strategy must include robust space situational awareness, preplanned actions, small satellites, rapid and variable launch capability, decreased dependence on space systems and institutional changes. In total, these actions would complicate the ability for Chinese anti-satellite weapons to easily strike US assets while providing the means to operate through an attack and then reconstitute lost capability. The DoD's ORS effort can be used as springboard, but must be accelerated to meet the rapidly emerging threat. Finally, its growth as a space faring nation may eventually be the best deterrence against a Chinese attack on United States satellites. However, the actions outlined in this paper can also be used to counter threats from other nations or natural phenomena. A rapid comprehensive defensive deterrence approach most effectively counters the Chinese threat and meets Presidential guidance to establish “contingency plans to ensure that U.S. forces can maintain or duplicate access to information from space assets and accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58__


__Contention__ 3__is Solar Storms –
They’ll hit Earth in 2013 –no precise mechanism for predicting the time of impact
Wall 9/13 –[Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 'Old Faithful' Sunspot to Fire Off More Solar Flares, Scientists Say,http://www.space.com/12921-sun-solar-flares-faithful-sunspot.html]
An active region of the sun that blasted out powerful solar storms four days in a row last week likely isn't done yet, scientists say. Officially, the flare-spouting region is called sunspot 1283. But space weather experts have dubbed it "Old Faithful," after the famous geyser in the United States' Yellowstone National Park that goes off like clockwork. And the solar Old Faithful should erupt again before it dissipates, researchers said. "It still has a fair amount of complexity," said solar physicist C. Alex Young of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. "So we still have a pretty good chance of seeing some more stuff from this one." An active sunspot Sunspots are temporary dark patches on the solar surface caused by intense magnetic activity. Some last for hours before disappearing; others linger for days, weeks or even months. Powerful solar storms often erupt from sunspots. These include radiation-flinging solar flares and phenomena known as coronal mass ejections (CMEs) — massive clouds of solar plasma that can streak through space at up to 3 million mph (5 million kph). From Sept. 5-8, sunspot 1283 produced four big flares and three CMEs. Two of the flares were X-class events and two were M-class flares. (Strong solar flares are classified according to a three-tiered system: X-class are the most powerful, M-class are of medium strength and C-class are the weakest.) While the rapid motion previously observed in sunspot 1283 seems to have died down a bit, Young said, the sunspot looks poised to erupt again sometime soon. "There's a good probability that we're still going to see at least another M-class flare, possibly another X-class flare," Young told SPACE.com. It's not uncommon for sunspots to pop off a number of powerful flares in quick succession the way 1283 has done, he added. That seems to be the natural order of things. "When you see one big flare, your chances of seeing another one are pretty good," Young said. A photo of a sunspot taken in May 2010, with Earth shown to scale. The image has been colorized for aesthetic reasons. This image with 0.1 arcsecond resolution from the Swedish 1-m Solar Telescope represents the limit of what is currently possible in terms of spatial resolution. CREDIT: The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, V.M.J. Henriques (sunspot), NASA Apollo 17 (Earth) View full size imageLearning more about solar storms Solar flares directed at Earth can cause temporary radio-communication blackouts. CMEs have even greater destructive potential; they can spawn geomagnetic storms that disrupt GPS signals, radio communications and power grids. [Sun's Wrath: Worst Solar Storms in History] So researchers are working hard to better understand sun storms, with the aim of one day being able to predict them with a great deal of accuracy and a long lead time. But they're not there yet. "We still have a long way to go to really have the kind of forecasting capabilities that we have with terrestrial weather," Young said. That's not to say scientists aren't making progress. Indeed, they've learned a lot about solar eruptions lately, Young said. And the knowledge base will continue to grow, he added, as a fleet of sun-watching spacecraft beam home more and more observations of Earth's star. "We're really in a great time right now in terms of the data that we have," Young said, citing the contributions of spacecraft such as NASA's STEREO and Solar Dynamics Observatory, as well as SOHO, a collaboration between NASA and the European Space Agency. "It's going to be pretty exciting, from a solar physics and a space weather point of view." All of these eyes on the sun should be treated to quite a show over the next several years. Solar activity has been ramping up over the last few months as the sun works toward a maximum in its 11-year activity cycle. Scientists expect the peak of the current cycle, which is known as Solar Cycle 24, to come in 2013.

We win uniqueness – storms at their peak – worse than previous storms

Lovett 11 –[Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]
On February 14 the sun erupted with the largest solar flare seen in four years—big enough to interfere with radio communications and GPS signals for airplanes on long-distance flights. As solar storms go, the Valentine's Day flare was actually modest. But the burst of activity is only the start of the upcoming solar maximum, due to peak in the next couple of years."The sun has an activity cycle, much like hurricane season," Tom Bogdan, director of the Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colorado, said earlier this month at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C."It's been hibernating for four or five years, not doing much of anything." Now the sun is waking up, and even though the upcoming solar maximum may see a record low in the overall amount of activity, the individual events could be very powerful.

Huge solar storms knock out U.S communication and GPS satellites
Marusek, 7-[nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm Threat Analysis,” Impact, http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]

In the past, solar storms have caused billions of dollars of commercial satellites to malfunction and die prematurely. A Great solar storm has the power to destroy many space assets (Space Station, Space Shuttle, LEO Satellites, GEO Satellites, Off World Missions) simultaneously. In our technology driven society, satellites play an important role in communications. The loss of satellites can affect: major news wire service feeds, network television, satellite television and cable programming, nationwide radio service, weather data, cell phone service, pagers, automated teller machines, gas station credit card handling services, airline weather tracking services, earthquake monitoring network, blackberries, GPS navigation service, and critical military & airline communications. And this list grows longer every day. Current commercial satellites are light-weight, sophisticated, built at the lowest cost using off-the-shelf electronics. 3 This current low cost approach makes new satellite design more vulnerable to damage from solar storms due to less radiation hardening. A high-energy particle from an SPE can penetrate the wall of a satellite and deposit sufficient charge to cause an electrical upset to a circuit switch, false command, memory state change or loss. 1 As the nuclear particles collide within the spacecraft, they release electrons that build up an internal dielectric charge. This static charge can destroy circuitry on electronic boards. The particles can also change data and instructions stored in computer memory. Only deaths with “day, month and year” listed were used in this analysis.Impact, 2007 James A. Marusek 21 Some of the memory damage is soft causing Single Event Upset (SEU). Generally, this anomaly can be corrected by a computer reboot. But some of the damage can be hard causing unrepairable physical damage to the junction of the microcircuit. These types of failures can be fatal.

Radiation from the flares renders satellites inoperable- this will collapse the economy
Forbes 9-14-11-[“A Powerful Solar Storm Could Render Satellites Inoperable For Years;”( http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/09/14/a-powerful-solar-storm-could-render-satellites-inoperable-for-years/]jt
Last October, around Halloween, the Sun produced a solar storm that was one of the largest ever recorded, and was strong enough to raise some concerns about the safety of Earth’s satellites. According to a recent paper published in Space Weather, such concern may well be justified. If its conclusions are correct, then a solar storm the size of one that was observed in 1859 could potentially kill several weather, telecommunications, and military satellites in less than a year. Here’s where the danger lies: most satellites, at least at some point in their orbits, fly through the inner radiation belt surrounding the Earth (aka the Van Allen Belt). The inner radiation belt, like it says on the tin, comprises quite a bit of intense radiation. However, satellites are shielded from that radiation, and the intensity of the radiation in the inner belt is relatively stable. That’s because it’s in large part shielded from high-energy particles by the plasmasphere, which is a cloud of plasma that is part of the Earth’s magnetosphere. Usually, when a solar storm hits, most of the radiation either hits the outer radiation belt or the plasmaphere. When the plasmasphere gets hit, some of the plasma dissipates, making it smaller, but that dissipation prevents too much intense radiation from hitting the inner belt. During the Halloween storms, observations showed that there was significant erosion of the plasmasphere. Not enough to let significant radiation into the inner belt, but enough that the study authors wanted to take a closer look at the data. Based on observational data of solar storms, the radiation belts, and the plasmasphere during past years, the authors were able to successfully model the Halloween solar storm. They then modeled a solar storm with the intensity of the Carrington Solar Storm, which took place in 1859 and is estimated to have been about four times stronger than the Halloween storms. When the Carrington storm was modeled, the results showed that the plasmasphere was eroded to the point that much more radiation reached the inner belt than is normally the case. Moreover, the intensity produced “waves” of strong radiation continually moving through the inner belt. Based on their models, the authors suggest that the high radiation intensity of the inner belt could persist for as long as a decade. That intensity would likely swamp the radiation shielding on a typical satellite, and the authors estimate that most would be rendered inoperable within a year after the storm. The loss of satellites as a result of a solar storm would be an economic catastrophe – we rely on satellites for a large portion of our day to day lives, even when we don’t realize it. The researchers hope to continue their work modeling radiation from solar storms, with an eye towards better and more accurate predictions, as well as looking for ways to diminish the impacts of such storms. In the meantime, the authors suggest that satellite engineers incorporate the potential for intensification of the inner radiation belt in their radiation mitigation strategies. That strikes me as a good idea.

Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression

Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 –[[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ]http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.Satellite malfunctions are indistinguishable – a harsh space environment will trigger an accidental warCoffelt 5 – [Colonel in the US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]jtThose that operate satellite systems and are familiar with space operations know the difficulties in determining the exact cause of many satellite malfunctions or “anomalies.” It is oftentimes difficult if not impossible to determine if satellite failures or problems are due to an everyday system anomaly, a natural event caused by the harsh space environment, the result of unintentional interference, or due to a malicious attack. If the US fields weapons that can interfere with spacecraft, failures on adversary spacecraft may be attributed as a us attack even when no such attack occurred. This would obviously heighten tensions which could escalate into larger conflict, and be quite destabilizing. Moreover, this is already beginning to occur. According to a GAO report, in 1997 “Indonesia intentionally interfered with and denied the services of a commercial satellite belonging to the south pacific island kingdom of Tonga because of a satellite orbital slot dispute.” Attribution of this attack was easy because Indonesia admitted to the attack, but is not likely to be so easy for most cases. Accurate attribution may, however, be irrelevant in future cases where country A merely perceives that a satellite failure or denial is the result of an attack by rival country B. Whether or not an attack actually occurred, the result will be the same as if it had. Increased tensions between the two countries will result, and country A is likely to act/respond, causing a counter reaction by country B and so on. In the end, there will be no proof that the failure was simply a system anomaly, an actual attack by country B, or possibly even an attack by a third party, country C, to instigate a conflict between A and B for their own purposes. Once measures are employed against these spacecraft, it also sets an international precedent for the use of such systems as an accepted, legal form of warfare. One can only expect proliferation of these systems and their use to become more common, as seen in the Indonesian case and others that have occurred since that time. Most importantly, the mere development and deployment of these systems starts the US down the slippery slope of offensive space strategy that may have serious, negative, unintended consequences that make it harder for the us to protect its own systems and access to space.30 Minute Timeframe to massive nuclear warMorgan 9, [Dennis Ray Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-69As for the accidental factor of nuclear war, both the U.S. and Russia have ‘‘launch on warning’’ systems that send off rockets before confirmation that a nuclear attack is underway; thus, especially during a time of tensions, a massive nuclear war could take place within only 30 min after a warning—even if the warning is false. This scenario has almost happened on several occasions in the past. It was only because of individual human judgments, which disbelieved the false warnings, that nuclear war did not happen, but if the human judgment had indeed interpreted the warnings according to protocol, an allout nuclear war would surely have taken place.Passive defenses and improved situational awareness solve debris accidents and accidental warButterworth and Sheldon 08-[Robert, President of Aries Analytics, staff of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and at the Department of Defence, John Marshall Institute Fellow At SAASS he teaches and directs the Space and National Security and the Information, Cyber, and Intelligence Power courses. Prior to his Marshall Institute and SAASS appointments, Dr. Sheldon was program director for Space Security at the Centre for Defence and International Security Studies, Henley-on-Thames, UK. “Deterrence in space: responding to challenges to the U.S. in outerspace”, November 13, 2008, PDF, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf]jtTry and pursue a strategy of deterrence by denial. Deny the adversary the bene-fits of attacking your satellite systems by installing, whenever possible, passive defenses on satellites, such as hardening against electromagnetic pulse attacks, measures to make jamming more difficult, and ablative shielding to help satellites both withstand ac-tual physical attacks and survive space debris impacts. Eventually, as individual threats become more defined, active defenses should also be seriously considered, although this will be much further in the future. In tandem with passive defenses, develop and accelerate programs for rapid launch of satellites to reconstitute lost systems and to bol-ster constellations in times of crisis. Also needed are spare satellites in storage here on earth that can be launched at short notice. While the Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) program is seeking to address these issues with the use of small satellites, efforts should also be made to speed up the time it takes to place larger satellites and more traditional systems that are being used in orbit. I suggest that we prioritize space situational awareness programs in order to build as quickly as possible a comprehensive picture of the space environment, some-thing that we are severely lacking today. If policy makers and commanders possess the ability to differentiate between purposeful attacks and the hazards of the natural space environment, then the potential for misperception and miscalculation is dramatically reduced. Furthermore, effective deterrence is strengthened by the fact that space situational awareness could potentially indicate the nature and origins of any attempted at-tack on a satellite, something that would be very challenging given that there are many ways in which one can attack a satellite, including cyber.Redundancy and Reconstitution is key to protect satellite systemsCBS 9-28-11-[September 28, 2011 1:06 PM PRINT TEXT -“Satellites threatened by sun "superstorms" By Charles Q. Choi http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/28/scitech/main20112845.shtml]jt(Space.com) Magnetic storms set off by the sun could pose a bigger threat than thought to weather, communication, military and other satellites close to Earth, with a potentially devastating economic impact, scientists suggest. In the new study, researchers found that solar radiation can energize a belt of high-energy particles that surrounds Earth more dramatically than previously believed. The study focused on the possible effects of a particularly strong magnetic storm on the Van Allen radiation belts, the dangerous rings of high-energy particles that girdle the Earth. The belts are split into two distinct zones. The outer belt, which is made up of electrons, reaches from about 15,800 to 31,600 miles (25,500 to 51,000 kilometers) above the surface, while the inner belt, which consists of a mix of electrons and protons, reaches from about 4,000 to 8,000 miles (6,400 to 12,800 km) above. Scientists had known the outer belt could become far more intense during geomagnetic storms caused by high-energy particles spewed by the sun, such as the storm that supercharged Earth's northern lights display Monday night (Sept. 26). However, they have long thought such storms do not affect the inner belt. Now computer simulations suggest that during a "superstorm" -- which has occurred in the past and is likely to recur in the future ? the electrons in the inner belt, too, could become energized. Near-Earth radiation could then remain dramatically more intense for several years afterward. "The increase in radiation in the inner zone may last for up to a decade and continue damaging satellites for years after a very strong storm," study lead author Yuri Shprits, a space physicist at the University of California, Los Angeles, told SPACE.com. This radiation would damage satellites in that zone and potentially cut their lifetimes by five-sixths or more. [Related: Space Radiation to Rise for Astronauts, Airline Passengers] "It would not destroy all satellites at once," Shprits said. "However, at least according to our calculations, a very strong storm can increase the radiation dose in the inner zone by a factor of 10, and within a few years we may lose a significant portion of the satellites that traverse the inner zone." In terms of new strategies that might be needed to protect satellite systems, "it's hard to say," Shprits said. "First of all, we need to estimate risks and estimate cost. If cost is too high, we may want to accept the risks and start getting ready to replenish the fleet in the case of such event." "There are a number of rather expensive strategies that can be used to mitigate the risk, including redundancy in electronics and increased shielding," he added. "Zero risk means infinite cost." Two missions to study the radiation belts are planned for 2012, Shprits noted: NASA's Radiation Belt Storm Probe will observe radiation belts in the equatorial plane, while Moscow State University's LOMONOSOV mission, with UCLA-built instruments on board, will observe radiation belts at low altitudes. The scientists detailed their findings online in the Aug. 25 issue of the journal Space Weather.=NEGATIVE= [[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&tf=1&to=ajisthe@gmail.com|ajisthe@gmail.com]]
==Strats== 
__**Lexington**__
**Round 2 vs American History JB (DSCOVR)**
Recommends cp (2nr)
Payroll Politics (2nr)
security k
Space mil
Aspec
T-human
case


**Round 3 vs Taylor High KR (Nuclear discourse/Yucca Mountain/Kato)**
Conditions cp (2nr)
Payroll politics (2nr)
Gospel k
Debris DA
T-beyond
Case turns

**Round 6 vs Milton CV (Space guard/SSA)**
Coercion disad
Conditions cp (2nr)
payroll politics
security k
t-pre existing
case

**__EMORY__**
**Round 2 vs Calhoun MB (Trancentializing space?/No plan text meditation stuff)**
T - Beyond
T - USFG
Exploration PIC (2NR)
Case
Moralized politics impact turn (2nr)
Defense

**Round 4 vs HoFlo CG (TSPS)**
Weaponization DA
Payroll Politics
OSTP Recommends
T - Human
Schmitt k (2nr)
case

**Round 6 vs (JSPSS)**
Coercion
Payroll (2nr)
OSTP (2nr)
T Human
Debris DA
Security K
case

**__Harvard__**
**Round 2 vs Hendrickson (SPS)**
Privitization cp
Military clean energy politics
Schmitt
heg bad (2nr)
Warming good (2nr)
space mil
case

**Round 4 vs Bishop Guertin ID (Asteroids)**
Russia cp (2nr)
military clean energy politics (2nr)
debris da
space mil
case

**Round 5 vs University (Space aethetic)**
Politics
Space mil
Debris (2nr)
Coercion (2nr) (2ac grouped disads on 1 flow)
Framework - USFG/parametrics good (2nr)
case (2nr)

**__LAKELAND__**

**Round 2 vs Technology CM (anti-gravity)**
politics (2nr)
ostp cp (2nr)
coercion
debris
Multilat da
aspec
t-human
case

**Round 4 vs McDonough ET (MDA)**
AfriCOMM/ReMix CP (2nr)
Politics (2nr)
Schmitt
T humans
case

**Round 5 vs University UA (Space Aesthetic)**
Coercion (2nr)
debris
Exploration PIC
T-USFG
T-Beyond/of-space
Case (2nr)


__**STATE CHAMPIONSHIP**__
**Round 2 v Bronx Law AH (Queer latinidad)**
Exploration PIC
T-USFG (2nr)
Gospel K
Case turns
Case D (2nr)

**Round 4 v Benjamin Banneker (SPS)**
Weaponization DA (2nr)
Interference DA
Stratosolar CP
T-Humans
Case D (2nr)
Debris turn on case
util good (2nr)

**Quarters v Bronx Law LR (Queer Latinidad)**
T-USFG (2NR)
Cap K
Gospel K
Case (2nr)

**Semis v ACORN AD (hip hop)**
T-USFG
Debris DA
Cap K
Exploration/mesosphere PIC (2nr) "Text: Thus Ajay and I advocate that the United States federal government substantially increase the funding for Hip Hop based urban science education in public schools so this disconnected generation can engage in space cultural activities of space below the earth’s mesosphere"
Case:
hip hop fails (2nr)
speed/linebyline good
state good (2nr)


**__NDCA__**
**Round 1 v Edgemont GX (CHPs)**
Schmitt k
weaponization da
uniqueness cp (2nr)
t-its
case (2nr)

**Round 3 v Damien LR (PACs)**
Covert bad theory
Schmitt k (2nr)
MIC disad (2nr)
debris da
weaponization da
case

**Round 5 v GBN CH (GBLs)**
T-Beyond
Cybersecurity politics
space mil da
schmitt k (2nr)
russia cp
edelman on case
unilat da on case
case d (2nr)




==Topicality== 
===T - Beyond=== 
A. Interpretation
Beyond means to further reaching or to the further side of

Oxford Dictionary, No Date

http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/beyond?view=uk

1 at or to the further side of:[as preposition] :he pointed to a spot beyond the concealing trees[as adverb] :from south of Dortmund as far as Essen and beyond [preposition] outside the physical limits or range of:the hook which held the chandelier was beyond her reach more extensive or extreme than; further -reaching than:[as preposition] :what these children go through is far beyond what most adults endure in a lifetimethe authority of the inspectors goes beyond ordinary police powers[as adverb] :pushing the laws to their limits and beyond
The mesosphere is between 31 and 56 miles above the surface

National Weather Service, 11 (“Layers of the Atmosphere”, 2/11, http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream//atmos/layers.htm)


Layers of the Atmosphere The envelope of gas surrounding the Earth changes from the ground up. Five distinct layers have been identified using... thermal characteristics (temperature changes), chemical composition, movement, and density. Each of the layers are bounded by "pauses" where the greatest changes in thermal characteristics, chemical composition, movement, and density occur. Troposphere The troposphere begins at the Earth's surface and extends from 4 to 12 miles (6 to 20 km) high. This is the layer of the atmosphere in which we live. The height of the troposphere varies from the equator to the poles. At the equator it is around 11-12 miles (18-20 km) high, at 50°N and 50°S, 5½ miles and at the poles just under four miles high. As the density of the gases in this layer decrease with height, the air becomes thinner. Therefore, the temperature in the troposphere also decreases with height in response. As one climbs higher, the temperature drops from an average around 62°F (17°C) to -60°F (-51°C) at the top of the troposphere. Almost all weather occurs in this region. The transition boundary between the troposphere and the layer above is called the tropopause. Together the tropopause and the troposphere are known as the lower atmosphere. Stratosphere The Stratosphere extends from the top of the troposphere up to around 31 miles (50 km) above the Earth's surface. This layer holds 19 percent of the atmosphere's gases but very little water vapor. In this region the temperature increases with height. Heat is produced in the process of the formation of Ozone and this heat is responsible for temperature increases from an average -60°F (-51°C) at tropopause to a maximum of about 5°F (-15°C) at the top of the stratosphere. This increase in temperature with height means warmer air is located above cooler air. This prevents "convection" since there is no upward vertical movement of the gases and is the reason for the 'anvil-shaped' tops of cumulonimbus clouds. These anvils occur at the tropopause. The transition boundary which separates the stratosphere from the mesosphere is called the stratopause. Mesosphere the mesosphere extends from the top of the stratosphere to about 56 miles (90 km) above the earth. The gases, including the oxygen molecules, continue to become thinner and thinner with height. As such, the effect of the warming by ultraviolet radiation also becomes less and less leading to a decrease in temperature with height. On average, temperature decreases from about 5°F (-15°C) to as low as -184°F (-120°C) at the mesopause. However, the gases in the mesosphere are still thick enough to slow down meteors hurtling into the atmosphere, where they burn up, leaving fiery trails in the night sky. Both the stratosphere to the mesosphere is considered the middle atmosphere. The transition boundary which separates the mesosphere from the thermosphere is called the mesopause. Thermosphere Above the mesosphere the thermosphere extends up to near 375 miles (600 km) above the earth. This layer is known as the upper atmosphere. The gases of the thermosphere are increasingly thinner than in the mesosphere. As such, incoming high energy ultraviolet and x-ray radiation from the sun, absorbed by the molecules in this layer, causes a large temperature increase. Because of this absorption, the temperature increases with height and can reach as high as 3,600°F (2,000°C) near the top of this layer; however, despite the high temperature, this layer of the atmosphere would still feel very cold to our skin because of the extremely thin air. The total amount of energy from the very few molecules in this layer is not enough to heat our skin. Exosphere The Exosphere is the outermost layer of the atmosphere. It extends from the top of the thermosphere to 6,200 miles (10,000 km) above the earth. In this layer, atoms and molecules escape into space and satellites orbit the earth.
B. Violation- the aff does not explore beyond the mesosphere, rather within or below
Voting Issue-

A. Limits- they allow land bound observations like telescope observations and justify affirmatives that just develop technology without deploying it, neither of which require an increase in exploration
B. Ground- we don’t get any ground because we should never be prepared to debate a land based observation; we cant generate offense on things like the space mil disad because we’d never generate a link since they don’t actually deploy anything into space which is a resolutional mandate or generics like politics because congress doesn’t care about observations being made by a telescope, both of which are the core negative ground on this inherently aff biased topic- losing those makes neg prep and clash impossible

===T - USFG=== 
====1NC==== 

A. Interpretation – the affirmative must advocate a USFG policy that increases exploration and/or development of space beyond the earth mesosphere.

1. The United States federal government is The three branches of U.S. government—legislative, judicial, and executive—carry out governmental power and functions.

That’s USA.gov

http://www.usa.gov/Agencies/federal.shtml

2. The colon means the USFG is the agent of the resolution

Webster’s Guide to Grammar and Writing, in 2000

[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]

Use of a colon before a list or an explanation that is preceded by a clause that can stand by itself. Think of the colon as a gate, inviting one to go on… If the introductory phrase preceding the colon is very brief and the clause following the colon represents the real business of the sentence, begin the clause after the colon with a capital letter.

3. That excludes individual action

Black’s Law Dictionary, ’99 (Seventh Edition Ed. Bryan A. Garner (chief))

Federal government 1. A national government that exercises some degree of control over smaller political units that have surrendered some degree of power in exchange for the right to participate in national political matters.

B. The aff___

C. Reasons to Prefer:

1. Our conception of debate produces an agonistic politics – finding the hardest debate and trying to win is critical to personal growth.

Yovel, Assistant professor, Faculty of Law, and coordinator of the law and philosophy program, University of Haifa, Israel, in ‘3

[Jonathan, Cardozo Law Review, January, 24 Cardozo L. Rev. 635]

While reactive forces respond to their context and in this way are dictated by them, active forces find their own mediums for action. There is a catch, however. Force needs resistance in order to matter, grow, and be challenged. In a paragraph whose importance to the understanding of Nietzsche's "mechanics" of power can hardly be exaggerated, he spells it out: Strong nature ... needs objects of resistance; hence it looks for what resists ... . The strength of those who attack can be measured in a way by the opposition they require: every growth is indicated by the search for a mighty opponent ... . The task is not simply to master what happens to resist, but what requires us to stake all our strength, suppleness, and fighting skill - opponents that are our equals. n41 Thus the will is measured in the scope of its challenges. But the active will is not satisfied by those challenges it happens to come by. For the challenge to be worthwhile it must be the most powerful possible, and so the Person of Power must cultivate the will to power of those who are not. In debate, the Person of Power will make the best of her opponent's position, nourish it, then go after the strong points or strongest version or interpretation. Kasparov must play Karpov, then Deep Blue. The philosophical problems most worthy of engagement - and Nietzsche spoke of problems as something a philosopher challenges to single combat - are the toughest ones. Of himself, he asserts "I only attack causes which are victorious ... . I have never taken a step publicly that did not compromise me: that is my criterion of doing right." n42 In society, the law that best serves the Person of Power is that which empowers the other to best prepare him for such "war." n43 Law must elevate the other's own powers to the fullest of [*650] their potential (the overman, of course, has no presupposed potential: a potential for her would be power-constraining rather than a horizon for development). The Person of Power will not rely on social norms to serve her in overcoming or in dominating: that is the way of ressentiment. Instead she will form law that will make the best out of that which she must stand up to, namely the others. Nietzsche is no closet-liberal: the principle of law as empowerment of the other is strictly a mean for the will to become more, for the power to will. n44 Law does not empower the other as a subject, although through empowerment the other might discover her own power and so much the better. The other - the person enslaved by the psychology of ressentiment, be he called slave or master - needs not be empowered to become less contemptible, yet it is because of his contemptibility that he must be elevated. Empowerment of the other is the active will's maxim in the exact sense in which the elevated will categorizes natural phenomenon and shapes cognition and language - namely, creating the environment for the best possibilities for the will to cast itself in the world, both natural and social.

2. Agonistic politics demands that ground be based on tradition. Otherwise our political community becomes meaningless

Arendt, The New School for Social Research, in ‘5

[Hannah, The Promise of Politics, pg. 41-2]

It lies in the nature of a tradition to be accepted and absorbed as it were, by common sense which fits the particular and idiosyncratic data of our other senses into a world we inhabit together and share in common. In this general understanding, common sense indicates that in the human condition of plurality men check and control their particular sense data against the common data of others (just as seeing and hearing and other sense perceptions belong to the human condition of man in his singularity and guarantee that he can see by himself: for perception per se he does not need his fellow men). Whether we say that the plurality of men or the commonality of the human world is its specific sphere of competence common sense obviously operates chiefly in the public realm of politics and morals, and it is that realm which must suffer when common sense and its matter-of-course judgments no longer function no longer make sense. Historically, common sense is as much Roman in origin as tradition. Not that the Greeks and Hebrews lacked common sense, bur only the Romans developed it until it became the highest criterion in tlte management of public-political affairs. With the Romans remembering the past became a matter of tradition, and it is in the sense of tradition that the development of common sense found its politically most important expression. Since then common sense has been bound and nourished by tradition, so that when traditional standards cease to make sense and no longer serve as general rule under which all or most particular instances can be subsumed common sense unavoidably atrophies. By the same token the past, the remembrance of what we have in common as our common origin is threatened by oblivion. The tradition-bound judgments of common sense extracted and saved from the past whatever was conceptualized by tradition and was still applicable to present conditions. This "practical” commonsense method of remembrance did not require any effort but was imparted to us in a common world as our shared inheritance. Its atrophy, therefore, has caused immediately an atrophy in the dimension of the past and initiated the creeping and irresistible movement of shallowness which spreads a veil of meaninglessness over all spheres of modern life.

3. Switch side debate breaks down the ideology and prevents the slide into totalitarianism.

Roberts-Miller, University of Texas, in ‘2

[Patricia, “Fighting Without Hatred: Hannah Arendt's Agonistic Rhetoric”, JAC, Vol. 22 No. 3]

Arendt does not mean that group behavior is impossible in the realm of the social, but that social behavior consists "in some way of isolated individuals, incapable of solidarity or mutuality, who abdicate their human capacities and responsibilities to a projected 'they' or ' it,' with disastrous consequences, both for other people and eventually for themselves" (Pitkin 79). One can behave, but not act. For someone like Arendt, a German-assimilated Jew, one of the most frightening aspects of the Holocaust was the ease with which a people who had not been extraordinarily anti-Semitic could be put to work industriously and efficiently on the genocide of the Jews. And what was striking about the perpetrators of the genocide, ranging from minor functionaries who facilitated the murder transport s up to major figures on trial at Nuremberg, was their constant and apparently sincere insistence that they were not responsible. For Arendt, this was not a peculiarity of the German people, but of the current human and heavily bureaucratic condition of twentieth-century culture: we do not consciously choose to engage in life's activities; we drift into them, or we do them out of a desire to conform. Even while we do them, we do not acknowledge an active, willed choice to do them; instead, we attribute our behavior to necessity, and we perceive ourselves as determined-determined by circumstance, by accident, by what "they" tell us to do. We do something from within the anonymity of a mob that we would never do as an individual; we do things for which we will not take responsibility. Yet, whether or not people acknowledge responsibility for the consequences of their actions, those consequences exist. Refusing to accept responsibility can even make those consequences worse, in that the people who enact the actions in question, because they do not admit their own agency, cannot be persuaded to stop those actions. They are simply doing their jobs. In a totalitarian system, however, everyone is simply doing his or her job; there never seems to be anyone who can explain, defend, and change the policies. Thus, it is, as Arendt says, rule by nobody. It is illustrative to contrast Arendt's attitude toward discourse to Habermas'. While both are critical of modern bureaucratic and totalitarian systems, Arendt's solution is the playful and competitive space of agonism; it is not the rational-critical public sphere. The "actual content of political life" is "the joy and the gratification that arise out of being in company with our peers, out of acting together and appearing in public, out of inserting ourselves into the world by word and deed, thus acquiring and sustaining our personal identity and beginning something entirely new" ("Truth"263). According to Seyla Benhabib, Arendt's public realm emphasizes the assumption of competition, and it "represents that space of appearances in which moral and political greatness, heroism, and preeminence are revealed, displayed, shared with others. This is a competitive space in which one competes for recognition, precedence, and acclaim" (78). These qualities are displayed, but not entirely for purposes of acclamation; they are not displays of one's self, but of ideas and arguments, of one's thought. When Arendt discusses Socrates' thinking in public, she emphasizes his performance: "He performed in the marketplace the way the flute-player performed at a banquet. It is sheer performance, sheer activity"; nevertheless, it was thinking: "What he actually did was to make public, in discourse, the thinking process" (Lectures 37). Pitkin summarizes this point: "Arendt says that the heroism associated with politics is not the mythical machismo of ancient Greece but something more like the existential leap into action and public exposure" (175- 76). Just as it is not machismo, although it does have considerable ego involved, so it is not instrumental rationality; Arendt's discussion of the kinds of discourse involved in public action include myths, stories, and personal narratives. Furthermore, the competition is not ruthless; it does not imply a willingness to triumph at all costs. Instead, it involves something like having such a passion for ideas and politics that one is willing to take risks. One tries to articulate the best argument, propose the best policy, design the best laws, make the best response. This is a risk in that one might lose; advancing an argument means that one must be open to the criticisms others will make of it. The situation is agonistic not because the participants manufacture or seek conflict, but because conflict is a necessary consequence of difference. This attitude is reminiscent of Kenneth Burke, who did not try to find a language free of domination but who instead theorized a way that the very tendency toward hierarchy in language might be used against itself (for more on this argument, see Kastely). Similarly, Arendt does not propose a public realm of neutral, rational beings who escape differences to live in the discourse of universals; she envisions one of different people who argue with passion, vehemence, and integrity. This point about the necessary presence of difference is important, as there is a tradition of seeing Arendt as antifeminist and of assuming that her theories are necessarily antagonistic to women and feminism. This criticism, made most cogently by Adrienne Rich, is not ungrounded; it results from Arendt's dividing labor from action and putting traditional women's work in the Jess valued category of labor. But, as Bonnie Honig has shown, Arendt's agonism can be useful to feminist critiques of identity because it assumes that difference is inherent; it tends to destabilize categories, including the categories "man" and "woman." For Arendt, the common world is up for argument because it is created by argument, and part of what gets created is our own identity. Yet, Arendt's comments concerning labor should still raise concern; they point to what strikes me as one of the most troubling aspects of agonism: the possibility that it is fundamentally elitist. While everyone may engage in labor that is seen by others, Arend t argues, not everyone engages in public action. Although Arendt is clearly not advocating a return to classical Greece or Rome, it is still troubling that the cultures that seem to have gotten the notion of action right are ones that have a leisured class precisely because there are entire categories of people (women, slaves, noncitizens) who spend their time doing the labor that permits the elite to engage in action. I should emphasize that this concern comes not from anything that Arendt says directly, but from the potential implications of Arendt's distinctions and analogies. The impulse behind the labor/action distinction is certainly not to denigrate women's work(as both Honig and Pitkin have argued, the equation of "social" and "feminine" is problematic), but to describe the lack of genuinely public life in modem political culture. Pitkin explains that the goal of The Human Condition is "to articulate a general theory of free citizenship that would recapture the principled but tough-minded realism of the wartime Resistance without the dreadful, unacceptable costs that those years had entailed and without the external constraints on freedom that the occupation had imposed" ( 112). Thought and the Social Arendt's primary intention in The Human Condition, as in many of her works, is to argue for the special nature of thought. This goal became especially pressing after she observed the trial of Adolf Eichmann for his part in the attempted genocide of the Jews. ln The Life of the Mind, Arendt describes her reaction to Eichmann. Having been taught that eviI results from arrogance, envy, hatred, or covetousness, she expected to see some monster who would exemplify such vices: However, what I was confronted with was utterly different and still undeniably factual. I was struck by a manifest shallowness in the doer that made it impossible to trace the uncontestable evil of his deeds to any deeper level of roots or motives. The deeds were monstrous, but the doer- at least the very effective one now on trial-was quite ordinary, commonplace, and neither demonic nor monstrous. There was no sign in him of firm ideological convictions or of specific evil motives, and the only notable characteristic one could detect in his past behavior as well as in his behavior during the trial and throughout the pre-trial police examination was something entirely negative: it was not stupidity but IN,!; thoughtlessness. (4) Eichmann perfectly exemplified what Arendt famously called the "banality of evil" but that might be better thought of as the bureaucratization of evil (or, as a friend once aptly put it, the evil of banality). That is, he was able to engage in mass murder because he was able not to think about it, especially not from the perspective of the victims, and he was able to exempt himself from personal responsibility by telling himself (and anyone else who would listen) that he was just following orders. It was the bureaucratic system that enabled him to do both. He was not exactly passive; he was, on the contrary, very aggressive in trying to do his duty. He behaved with the "ruthless, competitive exploitation" and "inauthentic, self-disparaging conformism" that characterizes those who people totalitarian systems (Pitkin 87). Arendt's theorizing of totalitarianism has been justly noted as one of her strongest contributions to philosophy. She saw that a situation like Nazi Germany is different from the conventional understanding of a tyranny. Pitkin writes, Totalitarianism cannot be understood, like earlier forms of domination, as the ruthless exploitation of some people by others, whether the motive be selfish calculation, irrational passion, or devotion to some cause. Understanding totalitarianism's essential nature requires solving the central mystery of the holocaust-the objectively useless and indeed dysfunctional, fanatical pursuit of a purely ideological policy, a pointless process to which the people enacting it have fallen captive. (87) Totalitarianism is closely connected to bureaucracy; it is oppression by rules, rather than by people who have willfully chosen to establish certain rules. It is the triumph of the social. Critics (both friendly and hostile) have paid considerable attention to Arendt's category of the "social," largely because, despite spending so much time on the notion, Arendt remains vague on certain aspects of it. Pitkin appropriately compares Arendt's concept of the social to the Blob, the type of monster that figured in so many post-war horror movies. That Blob was "an evil monster from outer space, entirely external to and separate from us [that] had fallen upon us intent on debilitating, absorbing, and ultimately destroying us, gobbling up our distinct individuality and turning us into robots that mechanically serve its purposes" (4). Pitkin is critical of this version of the "social" and suggests that Arendt meant (or perhaps should have meant) something much more complicated. The simplistic version of the social-as-Blob can itself be an instance of Blob thinking; Pitkin's criticism is that Arendt talks at times as though the social comes from outside of us and has fallen upon us, turning us into robots. Yet, Arendt's major criticism of the social is that it involves seeing ourselves as victimized by something that comes from outside our own behavior. I agree with Pitkin that Arendt's most powerful descriptions of the social (and the other concepts similar to it, such as her discussion of totalitarianism, imperialism, Eichmann, and parvenus) emphasize that these processes are not entirely out of our control but that they happen to us when, and because, we keep refusing to make active choices. We create the social through negligence. It is not the sort of force in a Sorcerer's Apprentice, which once let loose cannot be stopped; on the contrary, it continues to exist because we structure our world to reward social behavior. Pitkin writes, "From childhood on, in virtually all our institutions, we reward euphemism, salesmanship, slogans, and we punish and suppress truth-telling, originality, thoughtfulness. So we continually cultivate ways of (not) thinking that induce the social" (274). I want to emphasize this point, as it is important for thinking about criticisms of some forms of the social construction of knowledge: denying our own agency is what enables the social to thrive. To put it another way, theories of powerlessness are self-fulfilling prophecies. Arendt grants that there are people who willed the Holocaust, but she insists that totalitarian systems result not so much from the Hitlers or Stalins as from the bureaucrats who may or may not agree with the established ideology but who enforce the rules for no stronger motive than a desire to avoid trouble with their superiors (see Eichmann and Life). They do not think about what they do. One might prevent such occurrences or, at least, resist the modem tendency toward totalitarianism by thought: "critical thought is in principle anti-authoritarian" (Lectures 38). By "thought" Arendt does not mean eremitic contemplation; in fact, she has great contempt for what she calls "professional thinkers," refusing herself to become a philosopher or to call her work philosophy. Young-Bruehl, Benhabib, and Pitkin have each said that Heidegger represented just such a professional thinker for Arendt, and his embrace of Nazism epitomized the genuine dangers such "thinking" can pose (see Arendt's "Heidegger"). "Thinking" is not typified by the isolated contemplation of philosophers; it requires the arguments of others and close attention to the truth. It is easy to overstate either part of that harmony. One must consider carefully the arguments and viewpoints of others: Political thought is representative. I form an opinion by considering a given issue from different viewpoints, by making present to my mind the standpoints of those who are absent; that is, I represent them. This process of representation does not blindly adopt the actual views of those who stand somewhere else, and hence look upon the world from a different perspective; this is a question neither of empathy, as though I tried to be or to feel like somebody else, nor of counting noses and joining a majority but of being and thinking in my own identity where actually I am not. The more people's standpoints I have present in my mind while I am pondering a given issue, and the better I can imagine how I would feel and think If l were in their place, the stronger will be my capacity for representative thinking and the more valid my final conclusions, my opinion. ("Truth" 241) There are two points to emphasize in this wonderful passage. First, one does not get these standpoints in one's mind through imagining them, but through listening to them; thus, good thinking requires that one hear the arguments of other people. Hence, as Arendt says, "critical thinking, while still a solitary business, does not cut itself off from' all others.'" Thinking is, in this view, necessarily public discourse: critical thinking is possible "only where the standpoints of all others are open to inspection" (Lectures 43). Yet, it is not a discourse in which one simply announces one's stance; participants are interlocutors and not just speakers: they must listen. Unlike many current versions of public discourse, this view presumes that speech matters. It is not asymmetric manipulation of others, nor merely an economic exchange; it must be a world into which one enters and by which one might be changed. • - Second, passages like the above make some readers think that Arendt puts too much faith in discourse and too little in truth (see Habermas). But Arendt is no crude relativist; she believes in truth, and she believes that there are facts that can be more or less distorted. She does not believe that reality is constructed by discourse, or that truth is indistinguishable from falsehood. She insists that the truth has a different pull on us and, consequently, that it has a difficult place in the world of the politicaL Facts are different from falsehood because, while they can be distorted or denied, especially when they are inconvenient for the powerful, they also have a certain positive force that falsehood lacks: "Truth, though powerless and always defeated in a head-on clash with the powers that be, possesses a strength of its own: whatever those in power may contrive, they are unable to discover or invent a viable substitute for it. Persuasion and violence can destroy truth, but they cannot replace it" ("Truth" 259). Facts have a strangely resilient quality partially because a lie "tears, as it were, a hole in the fabric of factuality. As every historian knows, one can spot a lie by noticing incongruities, holes, or the junctures of patchedup places" ("Truth" 253). While she is sometimes discouraging about our ability to see the tears in the fabric, citing the capacity of totalitarian governments to create the whole cloth (see "Truth" 252-54), she is also sometimes optimistic. In Eichmann in Jerusalem, she repeats the story of Anton Schmidt-a man who saved the lives of Jews-and concludes that such stories cannot be silenced (230- 32). For facts to exert power in the common world, however, these stories must be told. Rational truth (such as principles of mathematics) might be perceptible and demonstrable through individual contemplation, but "factual truth, on the contrary, is always related to other people: it concerns events and circumstances in which man yare involved; it is established by witnesses and depends upon testimony; it exists only to the extent that it is spoken about, even if it occurs in the domain of privacy. It is political by nature" (238). Arendt is neither a positivist who posits an autonomous individual who can correctly perceive truth, nor a relativist who positively asserts the inherent relativism of all perception. Her description of how truth functions does not fall anywhere in the three-part expeditio so prevalent in both rhetoric and philosophy: it is not expressivist, positivist, or social constructivist. Good thinking depends upon good public argument, and good public argument depends upon access to facts: "Freedom of opinion is a farce unless factual information is guaranteed" (238). The sort of thinking that Arendt propounds takes the form of action only when it is public argument, and, as such, it is particularly precious: "For if no other test but the experience of being active, no other measure but the extent of sheer activity were to be applied to the various activities within the vita activa, it might well be that thinking as such would surpass them all" (Human 325). Arendt insists that it is "the same general rule Do not contradict yourself (not your self but your thinking ego )-that determines both thinking and acting" (Lectures 3 7). In place of the mildly resentful conformism that fuels totalitarianism, Arendt proposes what Pitkin calls "a tough-minded, open-eyed readiness to perceive and judge reality for oneself, in terms of concrete experience and independent, critical theorizing" (274). The paradoxical nature of agonism (that it must involve both individuality and commonality) makes it difficult to maintain, as the temptation is great either to think one's own thoughts without reference to anyone else or to let others do one's thinking. Arendt's Polemical Agonism As I said, agonism does have its advocates within rhetoric-Burke, Ong, Sloane, Gage, and Jarratt, for instance-but while each of these theorists proposes a form of conflictual argument, not one of these is as adversarial as Arendt's. Agonism can emphasize persuasion, as does John Gage's textbook The Shape of Reason or William Brandt et al. 's The Craft of Writing. That is, the goal of the argument is to identify the disagreement and then construct a text that gains the assent of the audience. This is not the same as what Gage (citing Thomas Conley) calls "asymmetrical theories of rhetoric'': theories that "presuppose an active speaker and a passive audience, a speaker whose rhetorical task is therefore to do something to that audience" ("Reasoned" 6). Asymmetric rhetoric is not and cannot be agonistic. Persuasive agonism still values conflict, disagreement, and equality among interlocutors, but it has the goal of reaching agreement, as when Gage says that the process of argument should enable one's reasons to be "understood and believed" by others (Shape 5; emphasis added). Arendt's version is what one might call polemical agonlsm: it puts less emphasis on gaining assent, and it is exemplified both in Arendt's own writing and in Donald Lazere's "Ground Rules for Polemicists" and "Teaching the Political Conflicts." Both forms of agonism (persuasive and polemical) require substantive debate at two points in a long and recursive process. First, one engages in debate in order to invent one's argument; even silent thinking is a "dialogue of myself with myself' (Lectures 40). The difference between the two approaches to agonism is clearest when one presents an argument to an audience assumed to be an opposition. In persuasive agonism, one plays down conflict and moves through reasons to try to persuade one's audience. In polemical agonism, however, one's intention is not necessarily to prove one's case, but to make public one's thought in order to test it. In this way, communicability serves the same function in philosophy that replicability serves in the sciences; it is how one tests the validity of one's thought. In persuasive agonism, success is achieved through persuasion; in polemical agonism, success may be marked through the quality of subsequent controversy. Arendt quotes from a letter Kant wrote on this point: You know that I do not approach reasonable objections with the intention merely of refuting them, but that in thinking them over I always weave them into my judgments, and afford them the opportunity of overturning all my most cherished beliefs. l entertain the hope that by thus viewing my judgments impartially from the standpoint of others some third view that will improve upon my previous insight may be obtainable. (Lectures 42) Kant's use of "impartial" here is interesting: he is not describing a stance that is free of all perspective; it is impartial only in the sense that it is not his own view. This is the same way that Arendt uses the term; she does not advocate any kind of positivistic rationality, but instead a "universal interdependence" (''Truth" 242). She does not place the origin of the "disinterested pursuit of truth" in science, but at "the moment when Homer chose to sing the deeds of the Trojans no less than those of the Achaeans, and to praise the glory of Hector, the foe and the defeated man, no less than the glory of Achilles, the hero of his kinfolk" ("Truth" 26263). It is useful to note that Arendt tends not to use the term "universal," opting more often for "common," by which she means both what is shared and what is ordinary, a usage that evades many of the problems associated with universalism while preserving its virtues (fora brief but provocative application of Arendt's notion of common, see Hauser I 00-03). In polemical agonism, there is a sense in which one's main goal is not to persuade one's readers; persuading one's readers, if this means that they fail to see errors and flaws in one's argument, might actually be a sort of failure. It means that one wishes to put forward an argument that makes clear what one's stance is and why one holds it, but with the intention of provoking critique and counterargument. Arendt describes Kant's "hope" for his writings not that the number of people who agree with him would increase but "that the circle of his examiners would gradually be enlarged" (Lectures 39); he wanted interlocutors, not acolytes. This is not consensus-based argument, nor is it what is sometimes called "consociational argument," nor is this argument as mediation or conflict resolution. Arendt (and her commentators) use the term "fight," and they mean it. When Arendt describes the values that are necessary in our world, she says, "They area sense ofhonor, desire for fame and glory, the spirit of fighting without hatred and 'without the spirit of revenge,' and indifference to material advantages" (Crises 167). Pitkin summarizes Arendt's argument: "Free citizenship presupposes the ability to fight openly, seriously, with commitment, and about things that really matter without fanaticism, without seeking to exterminate one's opponents" (266). My point here is two-fold: first, there is not a simple binary opposition between persuasive discourse and eristic discourse, the conflictual versus the collaborative, or argument as opposed to debate. Second, while polemical agonism requires diversity among interlocutors, and thus seems an extraordinarily appropriate notion, and while it may be a useful corrective to too much emphasis on persuasion, it seems to me that polemical agonism could easily slide into the kind of wrangling that is simply frustrating. Arendt does not describe just how one is to keep the conflict useful. Although she rejects the notion that politics is "no more than a battlefield of partial, conflicting interests, where nothing count[s] but pleasure and profit, partisanship, and the lust for dominion," she does not say exactly how we are to know when we are engaging in the existential leap of argument versus when we are lusting for dominion ("Truth" 263). Like other proponents of agonism, Arendt argues that rhetoric does not lead individuals or communities to ultimate Truth; it leads to decisions that will necessarily have to be reconsidered. Even Arendt, who tends to express a greater faith than many agonists (such as Burke, Sloane, or Kastely) in the ability of individuals to perceive truth, insists that self deception is always a danger, so public discourse is necessary as a form of testing (see especially Lectures and "Truth"). She remarks that it is difficult to think beyond one's self-interest and that "nothing, indeed, is more common, even among highly sophisticated people, than the blind obstinacy that becomes manifest in lack of imagination and failure to judge" ("Truth" 242). Agonism demands that one simultaneously trust and doubt one's own perceptions, rely on one's own judgment and consider the judgments of others, think for oneself and imagine how others think. The question remains whether this is a kind of thought in which everyone can engage. Is the agonistic public sphere (whether political, academic, or scientific) only available to the few? Benhabib puts this criticism in the form of a question: "That is, is the 'recovery of the public space' under conditions of modernity necessarily an elitist and antidemocratic project that can hardly be reconciled with the demand for universal political emancipation and the universal extension of citizenship rights that have accompanied modernity since the American and French Revolutions?" (75). This is an especially troubling question not only because Arendt's examples of agonistic rhetoric are from elitist cultures, but also because of comments she makes, such as this one from The Human Condition: "As a living experience, thought has always been assumed, perhaps wrongly, to be known only to the few. It may not be presumptuous to believe that these few have not become fewer in our time" (Human 324). Yet, there are important positive political consequences of agonism. Arendt's own promotion of the agonistic sphere helps to explain how the system could be actively moral. It is not an overstatement to say that a central theme in Arendt's work is the evil of conformity- the fact that the modem bureaucratic state makes possible extraordinary evil carried out by people who do not even have any ill will toward their victims. It does so by "imposing innumerable and various rules, all of which tend to 'normalize' its members, to make them behave, to exclude spontaneous action or outstanding achievement" (Human 40). It keeps people from thinking, and it keeps them behaving. The agonistic model's celebration of achievement and verbal skill undermines the political force of conformity, so it is a force against the bureaucratizing of evil. If people think for themselves, they will resist dogma; if people think of themselves as one of many, they will empathize; if people can do both, they will resist totalitarianism. And if they talk about what they see, telJ their stories, argue about their perceptions, and listen to one another-that is, engage in rhetoric-then they are engaging in antitotalitarian action. In post-Ramistic rhetoric, it is a convention to have a thesis, and one might well wonder just what mine is-whether I am arguing for or against Arendt's agonism. Arendt does not lay out a pedagogy for us to follow (although one might argue that, if she had, it would look much like the one Lazere describes in "Teaching"), so I am not claiming that greater attention to Arendt would untangle various pedagogical problems that teachers of writing face. Nor am I claiming that applying Arendt's views will resolve theoretical arguments that occupy scholarly journals. I am saying, on the one hand, that Arendt's connection of argument and thinking, as well as her perception that both serve to thwart totalitarianism, suggest that agonal rhetoric (despite the current preference for collaborative rhetoric) is the best discourse for a diverse and inclusive public sphere. On the other hand, Arendt's advocacy of agonal rhetoric is troubling (and, given her own admiration for Kant, this may be intentional), especially in regard to its potential elitism, masculinism, failure to describe just how to keep argument from collapsing into wrangling, and apparently cheerful acceptance of hierarchy. Even with these flaws, Arendt describes something we would do well to consider thoughtfully: a fact-based but not positivist, communally grounded but not relativist, adversarial but not violent, independent but not expressivist rhetoric
4. Extra topiclaity – they claim advnatages based on action beyond the scope of the resolution. That’s unpredictable and a voting issue.

5. Our understanding of politics can insire compassion.

Porter, head of the School of International Studies at the University of South Australia, 2006 [Elisabeth, "Can politics practice compassion?" Hypatia Sep, p project muse]

As individuals, we have responsibilities beyond our personal connections to assist whenever it is within our capacities and resources to do so. I do not want to give the impression that our entire lives should be devoted to attending to others' needs. To do so would return women to exclusive nurturance at the expense of self-development and public citizenship. It is, rather, a matter of acting with compassion when it [End Page 108] is possible to do so, and the possibility of course is debatable and requires priorities, which differ with us all. Politically, this means that politicians, nations, and international organizations have a similar responsibility to alleviate the suffering that results when peoples' basic needs are not met. There is a heavy responsibility on wealthy nations where the extent of poverty and misery is not as conspicuous as elsewhere to assist less wealthy nations.16 State responsibility is acute when suffering is caused by harsh economic policies, careless sales of arms and military weapons, severe immigration rules, and obscene responses to terrorism by further acts of violence. With the majority of these massive global issues, most of us can only demonstrate the first stage of co-suffering, and perhaps move to the second and debate the merit of options that might meet peoples' needs, and alleviate suffering. This vocal civic debate can provoke the third process of political responses that actually lead to political compassion. Given nations' moral failures of compassion and such conspicuous evidence of oppression, exploitation, brutality, and indifference, we need to be observant, and understand the implications of a failure to practice compassion.

And, especially in the context of policy debate.

Greene, Pf Rhetoric at Minnesota, in ‘05

(Ronald, Cultural Studies, Volume 19, Issue 1 January, pages 100 – 126)

Nearly forty years after the debating-both-sides controversy erupted in the mid 1950s, Star Muir (1993) defended the 'game' of debate on a new moral terrain. Muir would do so not on the ground of Day's reconstructed public ethic of free and full expression but on the internal terrain of a student's moral and cognitive development. For Muir, one need not fear speaking in a way divorced from the sincerity principle because the argumentative demands of tournament debate promoted the moral development suggested by Kohlberg and his allies in moral education. Debating both sides promoted moral development because it produced the necessary respect for a plurality of voices without being seduced by a moral relativism. Muir writes, 'cognitive development progresses from individualism to social conformity to social contract theory to universal ethical principles'. Moral development requires a respect for pluralism and universal ethical principles and, according to Muir, debating both sides, as a 'tool of moral pedagogy' promotes tolerance, pluralism and a means for acquiring universal norms. In other words, having students voice an argument different from their own conviction distances students from their own ego-centrism and instils them with a sympathetic attachment to the viewpoint of the other. In this way, debating both sides promotes dialogical and dialectical forms of reasoning educating the student away from his/her tendency to reason 'egocentrically and sociocentrically' (p. 287). Muir concludes his argument this way: '[M] oral education is not a guaranteed formula for rectitude, but the central tendencies of switch side debating are in line with convictions built on empathic appreciation for alternative points of view … in a framework of equal access to ideas and equal opportunities for expression, the truth that emerges is more defensible and more justifiable' (p. 292). For Muir, debate retains its epistemic value while also taking on a new role in the moral development of students. At the same time, like Day, debating both sides performs internally on the mind and soul of the student. In the language of moral development, Day's defence of free and full expression circulates as a universal norm to guide the interaction between concrete interlocutors. For Muir, Day's defence is curiously absent, but it is important to note how Muir reassigns conviction to the process of generating morally sound judgments. According to Muir, the game of debate is redeemed on the terrain of moral development because it gives students the distance from acting on their arguments, helping to secure the possibility of respecting pluralism without risking moral relativism.

===T - Human=== 

A. Space development is limited to staffed commercial projects; everything else is space technology which is distinct

Livingston 07 – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)

*we do not endorse gendered language

Eric Westling is a science writer, pundit on science, technology, and economics. He is the co-author of “The Space Elevator” with Dr. Brad Edwards . In addition, Mr. Westling is retired and is a former Army officer and helicopter pilot, civilian Airline Transport Pilot (ATP), former consultant to many small companies regarding engineering, computer, and business troubleshooting. His most recent papers are on Solar Power Satellites, Economics of the Space Elevator, Energy and time lag in the 21st century , and Eric’s axioms (a list of principles of science, technology and econom1NCics). Mr. Westling stats that “Space Development is the only long term answer to the, just starting, energy shortage; which will otherwise continue until we have an economic collapse.” He believes that no-one is doing space development . Instead, we have space technology, not development. NASA has no TRL 10 – therefore no plans to develop space . He defines space development as the rapid expansion of manned commercial projects in space.
B. Violation – the affirmative doesn’t increase human missions in space
C. Voting issue –
1. limits – they allow all robotic missions and satellites, this could be dozens of small additional affs that are impossible to predict and prepare against- makes it impossible to be neg
2. negative ground – we don’t have disad links to launching one additional probe or creating a new satellite – human missions are visible, contentious, predictable and the core of the debate

==Counterplans== 
===OSTP Recommends=== 
====1NC==== 
Text: The United States Office of Science and Technology Policy should recommend that the United States federal government should (do the plan). The Executive Branch of the United States federal government should provide the OSTP with all necessary resources to promote its recommendations.

OSTP recommendation results in the aff

Holdren 2010 – director of office of technology and science development (January 26th, “Message from OSTP director John P. Holdren” http://semanticommunity.info/A_NITRD_Dashboard/OSTP_Open_Government_Plan

President Obama has repeatedly articulated the indispensable role that science, technology, and innovation (ST&I) must play if the great challenges of our time are to be met. The President has made ST&I a core priority through the appointments he has made, the policy initiatives he has launched, and the budgets he has proposed—bringing Federal funding for ST&I to its highest level in history and committing to doubling the budgets of the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s laboratories. The President also recognizes that innovation blossoms best in an open environment, where ideas are shared freely and ingenuity from a wide array of contributors is encouraged. So it is no coincidence that OSTP is not only a central element of the Federal government’s innovation agenda but also home to the White House Open Government Initiative. OSTP in fact has three main missions, all of which are strengthened by open government. First, OSTP provides the President with advice about technology and innovation that can strengthen our economy, generate jobs, and lead to breakthroughs that can improve the lives of all Americans. But innovation is not just about technology. The Nation can benefit greatly from innovations in the way our government institutions work, too. Indeed, achieving America’s potential for advancement through technological innovation requires innovation in government, and that is what the Open Government Initiative is all about. Second, OSTP ensures that Executive Branch policies are informed by sound science. Open government helps OSTP fulfill this mission by enhancing data availability and information-sharing across academic disciplines, governmental bodies, the public and private sectors, and nations around the world. Armed with the vastly expanded body of knowledge that such a network enables, OSTP and the Administration are better able to hew to reliable evidence in their decision-making processes. Third, OSTP is responsible for coordination and cooperation on ST&I issues across Executive Branch departments, agencies, and offices. Of course, the prerequisites for coordination and cooperation are communication and mutual access to relevant data, and the Open Government Initiative is designed to promote these prerequisites within the government as well as between the government and citizens. In his inauguration address, the President promised to restore science to its rightful place in American policymaking. The OSTP Open Government Plan that follows is a critical element of getting that done. As a distinct office within the Executive Office of the President, OSTP is bound by the Open Government Directive to write an Open Government Plan. But this is no mere box-checking exercise for us. As I’ve indicated above, openness is core to the mission and culture of OSTP. That is why I have instructed my colleagues to post this plan for your comments and feedback. It is not a final product but the first draft of a living document we are committed to revising and updating with your input. Please share your ideas and help OSTP do its part in moving toward a more open government and a more innovative, productive, and participatory society. OSTP has been at the forefront of participatory policymaking in the Executive Branch. In his January 21, 2009 Memorandum on Transparency and Open Government, President Obama directed the Chief Technology Officer (CTO) to issue recommendations for creating a more transparent, participatory, and collaborative government. To that end, OSTP, together with its partners in the White House Open Government Initiative, solicited expertise from across the United States by running a three-phase public consultation (brainstorm, discussion, drafting) process from May 21 through July 6, 2009. This complemented an earlier online brainstorming with government employees, numerous face-to-face events around the country, and dozens of submissions received via electronic mail and posted to the White House Open Government Initiative (http://www.whitehouse.gov/open) website. To that end, OSTP conducted an interactive, online discussion, focusing on three main areas of interest: • Implementation: Which Federal Agencies are good candidates to adopt public access policies? • Features and Technology: In what format should articles and data be submitted in order to make them easy to search and retrieve, and to make them easy for others to link to it? • Management: What are the best mechanisms to ensure compliance? What would be the best metrics of success? Public comment was so successful that the discussion was extended by several weeks. OSTP scientists and advisors are currently studying public comments and plan to submit recommendations to senior officials soon.

====2NC Results in plan==== 
**2. OSTP recommendation turns into policy- empirically proven with space**

Simpson 2011 - a British Computer Scientist. He is Director of Studies, Software Engineering Programme at University of Oxford (Clive, January 13th, “Nasa’s woman of influence” Space Politics, http://www.simcomm.co.uk/files/simpson%20-%20dale%20interview%20jun06.pdf)

OSTP was a major player in the White House as the Vision for Space Exploration was being developed and its space policy team called on Dale every once in a while to act as a sounding board for their ideas. So was the opportunity to become deputy administrator at NASA a job she just couldn’t turn down? “When Mike Griffin called and asked me to join NASA as deputy administrator and help him to fulfil the Vision for Space Exploration, it came as a surprise and I had to think it through.” In the end it boiled down to a package deal with two elements that were now in place first, the Vision for Space Exploration itself and, second, a NASA administrator with the skills necessary to make the vision a reality.

====2NC AT links to politics==== 
**No backlash - OSTP will lobby Congressman and empirically results in action**

American Physical Society 2009 – topical group on quantum information (Spring, “A National Initiative in Quantum Science Information” Volume 4, Number 1, http://www.aps.org/units/gqi/newsletters/upload/spring09.pdf)

Carl Williams of NIST and the OSTP kicked off the workshop by stating that the goals of the workshop were to identify the important science questions, the systemic problems in the field hindering progress, the obstacles to the health and vitality of the field, and ideas for assisting federal agencies to better advocate for QIS. In his words, this workshop was “our time to influence the future budget” of U.S. QIS funding. Reinforcing this, he noted that the OSTP is part of the executive branch, which sends proposed federal budgets to Congress and that the OSTP is able to lobby congressional staffers, unlike most other government employees who are banned from such activities. Williams stated that he was under orders not to mention any specific numbers for the budget. He also apologized for the short notice for the workshop, stating that it needed to be organized hastily in order to influence the 2011 federal budget. He stated that waiting any longer would have delayed influencing the federal budget until 2012. Williams further added that the SQIS-written document was a “vision document,” not an “investment policy,” because of the change in presidential administrations. He stated that a similar vision document on nanotechnology spanned the Clinton to Bush transition, which eventually led to the National Nanotechnology Initiative. President Obama’s recent call for the doubling of the NSF budget and Dmitry Maslov’s recent call for NSF quantum information proposals at the QIP 2009 conference in Santa Fe, New Mexico, both suggest that the current administration may support growth in QIS funding, at least within the NSF.

**ONLY the counterplan provides Congress a link shield – sequencing means any permutation still links**

Space Politics 2007 (February 26th, “A Window of opportunity for export control reform” http://www.spacepolitics.com/2007/02/)

The strategy proposed by David Garner, a retired Air Force colonel responsible in part for the current regulations, is to have a presidential commission study the issue and propose solutions; this would provide some political cover for members of Congress who might otherwise be less willing to back reform. Otherwise, Garner warns, “If we don’t take the opportunity, politics is going to eat us alive and, frankly, my good friends across the Atlantic will take advantage, as they have for the last seven years, of the legislation we created and they’re just going to continue to beat the crap out of us.”

====2NC AT Says no==== 
3. Political pressure is more important than legislation – opposition to the plan means it is more likely to be rolled back

Christopher Beam, Slate Magazine, 7/14/2010. “Pelosi’s Paradox,” p. Lexis

Then again, if you think about it, Congress binds itself all the time. As University of Chicago law professor Eric Posner points out: "Congress can already bind the future in uncontroversial ways. It borrows money, compelling the future to repay or suffer a loss of credit. It starts wars, compelling the future to finish them. Everything Congress does affects future generations, for good or for ill." You might not be able to physically force a future Congress to cut costs. But you can pass laws and create political pressure to make it hard for them to wriggle out of something. In 2001, for example, Congress passed tax cuts with the explicit understanding that they would expire in 2010-that's what the law said. But there was an implicit understanding that it would be pretty hard for the Congress of 2010 to allow them to expire. Ultimately, the only way to ensure that a future Congress follows orders-whether it's to eliminate the deficit or to punish banks or to implement immigration reform-is the old-fashioned way: Political pressure. Whether that pressure comes from K Street lobbyists or grass-roots campaigns, its purpose is to persuade Congress that this cause still matters. Deficit reduction will only happen if future Congresses are as scared of the issue as the present Congress. (The reasoning could go something like this: I don't like these tax hikes, either, but we need to do something about the deficit, and, besides, I didn't write this law.) Congress may not be able to bind itself, but politics can.

4. Even if Congress says no, recommendations create political pressure that solves the case

OCALA 2/1/2010. “A Leadership Deficit,” http://www.ocala.com/article/20100201/OPINION/100139994?p=2&tc=pg

The next-best alternative would be for Congress to establish a commission with the authority to recommend increases in revenue and decreases in spending (or, at the least, decreases in the rate of increases in spending). Democratic Sen. Kent Conrad of North Dakota and Republican Sen. Judd Gregg of New Hampshire have already proposed just such a plan — with the caveat that Congress would be required to vote on the entire package of recommendations, without amendment. The Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission would be a model for the budget commission. In 2005, the base-closure commission produced a cost-effective plan for closing unneeded bases, while preserving national security. Congress was required to vote, up or down, on the defense commission's recommendations; they were passed. Last week, a majority (53 senators) voted for the Conrad-Gregg proposal — including Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican George LeMieux, both of Florida. Unfortunately, the measure failed because a Senate rule requires 60 votes for approval. So, the task of formulating recommendations is being deferred to a presidential panel. Looking to history as a guide, a presidential commission on Social Security, convened in 1982-83, wasn't particularly effective. But the commission produced enough political consensus for a Republican president, Ronald Reagan, and a Democratic Congress to provide leadership. They agreed to accept increases in payroll taxes and decreases in benefits — which combined to extend the life of Social Security for decades. The same sort of leadership — and recognition of the need to tackle deficits through revenues and expenditures — will be required for Obama's budget commission to produce a similar success.


====2NC AT Perm==== 
4. Perm isn’t topical – should requires immediate effect

Summer 94 (Justice, Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14)

4 The legal question to be resolved by the court is whether the word "should"13 in the May 18 order connotes futurity or may be deemed a ruling in praesenti.14 The answer to this query is not to be divined from rules of grammar;15 it must be governed by the age-old practice culture of legal professionals and its immemorial language usage. To determine if the omission (from the critical May 18 entry) of the turgid phrase, "and the same hereby is", (1) makes it an in futuro ruling - i.e., an expression of what the judge will or would do at a later stage - or (2) constitutes an in in praesenti resolution of a disputed law issue, the trial judge's intent must be garnered from the four corners of the entire record.16 ¶5 Nisi prius orders should be so construed as to give effect to every words and every part of the text, with a view to carrying out the evident intent of the judge's direction.17 The order's language ought not to be considered abstractly. The actual meaning intended by the document's signatory should be derived from the context in which the phrase to be interpreted is used.18 When applied to the May 18 memorial, these told canons impel my conclusion that the judge doubtless intended his ruling as an in praesenti resolution of Dollarsaver's quest for judgment n.o.v. Approval of all counsel plainly appears on the face of the critical May 18 entry which is [885 P.2d 1358] signed by the judge.19 True minutes20 of a court neither call for nor bear the approval of the parties' counsel nor the judge's signature. To reject out of hand the view that in this context "should" is impliedly followed by the customary, "and the same hereby is", makes the court once again revert to medieval notions of ritualistic formalism now so thoroughly condemned in national jurisprudence and long abandoned by the statutory policy of this State. [Continues – To Footnote] 14 In praesenti means literally "at the present time." BLACK'S LAW DICTIONARY 792 (6th Ed. 1990). In legal parlance the phrase denotes that which in law is presently or immediately effective, as opposed to something that will or would become effective in the future [in futurol]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U.S. 360, 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).

And “the” word the implies they must defend the entirety of the USFG

Google Dictionary, 2011 [“The”, http://www.google.com/#hl=en&authuser=0&q=the&tbs=dfn:1&tbo=u&sa=-X&ei=sCgCToT5AsrEswasn9CuDQ&sqi=2&ved=0CCQQkQ4&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.&fp=e2cdbf82a93ada0c&biw=1149&bih=696)

• Used to refer to a person, place, or thing that is unique - the Queen - the Mona Lisa - the Nile • Denoting a disease or affliction - I've got the flu • (with a unit of time) The present; the current - dish of the day - man of the moment • Used instead of a possessive to refer to someone with whom the speaker or person addressed is associated - I'm meeting the boss - how's the family? • Used with a surname to refer to a family or married couple - the Johnsons were not wealthy • Used before the surname of the chief of a Scottish or Irish clan - the O'Donoghue • Used to point forward to a following qualifying or defining clause or phrase - the fuss that he made of her - the top of a bus - I have done the best I could • (chiefly with rulers and family members with the same name) Used after a name to qualify it - George the Sixth - Edward the Confessor - Jack the Ripper • Used to make a generalized reference to something rather than identifying a particular instance - he taught himself to play the violin - worry about the future • Used with a singular noun to indicate that it represents a whole species or class - they placed the African elephant on their endangered list

Vote neg on presumption

Brovero, 94 (Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert, “Immigration Regulation : Borderline Policies” Wake Forest Debate Site,) www.wfu.edu/Studentorganizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm)

The problem is not that there is not a plan; this time there is one. The problem is that there is no agent specified. The federal government does not enact policies, agents or agencies within the federal government enact policies. The agent enacting a policy is a very important aspect of the policy. For some of the same reasons the affirmative team should specify a plan of action, the affirmative team should specify an agent of action

====2NC AT Theory==== 

5. Process education on this topic is best – key to successful real world policymaking

Goldman, 92 [Space Policy an Introduction, Iowa state Press, Nathan, 0813810248, p. google books]

THIS CHAPTER REVIEWS (the operational and regulatory activities of the federal government in the exploration and use of outer space. It begins by describing the fragmented space bureaucracy. NASA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the Department of Defense, the operational space agencies, operate space programs. Other agencies are users of space services and, increasingly, of space goods. Other institutions have duties of oversight and regulation. As private enterprise becomes more active in space, still other agencies will regulate new businesses. Agencies frequently have over- lapping jurisdictions, conflicting interests, and ongoing rivalries. Coordinating space activities in the executive branch will be an overriding problem for space policy for a long time. The section on the executive branch concludes with a discussion of the friction the agencies experienced as they considered the Na- tional Space Policy Initiative of 1988.


===EIS Conditions=== 
Text: The United States Federal Government should initiate an environmental impact assessment regarding the consequences of
[PLAN]
and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it meets compliance requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act.

It competes-

“resolved” Means “to make a firm decision”,

“should” Means “used to imply obligation or duty” --Those are quotes from [American Heritage Dictionary at dictionary.com]

Solves and net beneficial – prior assessment approves the plan and boosts environmental leadership

Viikari, 8 (Lotta, Professor of Public and International Law and Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law at the University of Lapland, Theory and Practice of Transboundary Environmental Impact Assessment, p. 265-266)
Outer space is an environment where humans have gained access only quite recently as our technology has not been sophisticated enough for space missions for very long. Other remote and hostile areas the exploration (let alone exploitation) of which is a relatively recent phenomenon are the Antarctic and the deep seabed. Although these environments are in principle quite different from each other they nevertheless pose comparable challenges to human activities. Accordingly, also the problems encountered in their management often appear similar - not least from a legal point of view. Management of environmental problems is no exception. Like many other types of human activities, the use of outer space causes a variety of environmental consequences. Although some of the risks involved have been understood only recently, the world space community has long known that space activities contribute to degradation of environment.‘ Yet utilitarian policies have disproportionately dominated those activities until today. This has gradually led to substantial environmental threats that constitute increasing hazards not only to the environment of outer space but to human space activities as well, even to life on Earth. One tool to mitigate and especially prevent harmﬁil consequences of human activities is the prior assessment of their potential environmental and other impacts. Despite its success in many other ﬁelds (and the need for it in the space sector as well), environmental impact assessment is not a well- established tool in the intemational law of outer space. This is not surprising, though, considering that obligations under international environmental law that require EIAs were ﬁrst introduced in the context of potential transboundary impacts of particular projects and that this is where such obligations still remain the most common and binding. Obligations regarding transboundary impacts do not apply to the space sector very well, due to the inherently intemational nature of these activities which mostly take place outside state territories, even the Earth. Nevertheless, with growing recognition of global interdependence, international obligations to conduct EIAs have arisen also in relation to activities that are proposed to be conducted in areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. Such obligations can be found in the 1991 Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty on Environmental Protection with its detailed obligatory scheme of EIA,2 and in the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.3 These are examined elsewhere in this book. Similar obligations have, however, not been adopted for the space sector yet.

That’s key to overall hegemony and avoids politics

Walter, 2 (Norbert, Chief Economist – Deutsche Bank Group, The New York Times, 8-28, Lexis)
At present there is much talk about the unparalleled strength of the United States on the world stage. Yet at this very moment the most powerful country in the world stands to forfeit much political capital, moral authority and international good will by dragging its feet on the next great global issue: the environment. Before long, the administration's apparent unwillingness to take a leadership role -or, at the very least, to stop acting as a brake -- in fighting global environmental degradation will threaten the very basis of the American supremacy that many now seem to assume will last forever. American authority is already in some danger as a result of the Bush administration's decision to send a low-level delegation to the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg -- low-level, that is, relative to America's share of both the world economy and global pollution. The absence of President Bush from Johannesburg symbolizes this decline in authority. In recent weeks, newspapers around the world have been dominated by environmental headlines: In central Europe, flooding killed dozens, displaced tens of thousands and caused billions of dollars in damages. In South Asia, the United Nations reports a brown cloud of pollution that is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths a year from respiratory disease. The pollution (80 percent man-made) also cuts sunlight penetration, thus reducing rainfall, affecting agriculture and otherwise altering the climate. Many other examples of environmental degradation, often related to the warming of the atmosphere, could be cited. What they all have in common is that they severely affect countries around the world and are fast becoming a chief concern for people everywhere. Nobody is suggesting that these disasters are directly linked to anything the United States is doing. But when a country that emits 25 percent of the world's greenhouse gases acts as an uninterested, sometimes hostile bystander in the environmental debate, it looks like unbearable arrogance to many people abroad. The administration seems to believe it is merely an observer -- that environmental issues are not its issues. But not doing anything amounts to ignoring a key source of world tension, and no superpower that wants to preserve its status can go on dismissing such a pivotal dimension of political and economic -- if not existential -- conflict.

Nuclear War

Zalmay Khalilzad, (Former Assist Prof of Poli Sci at Columbia), 1995 Spring, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2; P. 84
Under the third option, the United States would seek to retain global leadership and to preclude the rise of a global rival or a return to multipolarity for the indefinite future. On balance, this is the best long-term guiding principle and vision. Such a vision is desirable not as an end in itself, but because a world in which the United States exercises leadership would have tremendous advantages. First, the global environment would be more open and more receptive to American values -- democracy, free markets, and the rule of law. Second, such a world would have a better chance of dealing cooperatively with the world's major problems, such as nuclear proliferation, threats of regional hegemony by renegade states, and low-level conflicts. Finally, U.S. leadership would help preclude the rise of another hostile global rival, enabling the United States and the world to avoid another global cold or hot war and all the attendant dangers, including a global nuclear exchange. U.S. leadership would therefore be more conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system

Independently – this model stops global environmental destruction that risks extinction

Harris, 1 (Paul G., Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)
In addition to promoting U.S. global interests, a more robust acceptance by the U.S. government of international equity as an objective of global environmental policy and indeed of foreign policy generally has potentially beneficial implications for humankind. Implementation of the equity provisions of international environmental arrangements may reduce human suffering by helping to prevent changes to local, regional, and global environmental commons that would adversely affect people, most notably the many poor people in the economically developing countries who are least able to cope with environmental changes. Insofar as environmental protection policies focus on sustainable economic development, human suffering may be mitigated as developing countries especially the least-developed countries are aided in meeting the basic needs of their citizens. Economic disparities within and between countries are growing. At least one-fifth of the world's population already lives in the squalor of absolute poverty.' This situation can be expected to worsen in the future. If this process can be mitigated or reversed by international policies focusing on environmentally sustainable economic development, human well-being on a global scale will rise. What is more, international cooperative efforts to protect the environment that are made more likely and more effective by provisions for international equity will help governments protect their own environment and the global environment if they are successful. Insofar as the planet is one biosphere that it is in the case of ozone depletion and climate change seems indisputable persons in every local and national community are simultaneously members of an interdependent whole. Most activities, especially widespread activities in the United States and the rest of the industrialized world, including the release of ozone-destroying chemicals and greenhouse gases, are likely to adversely affect many or possibly all persons on the planet. Efforts to prevent such harm or make amends for historical harm (i.e., past pollution, which is especially important in these examples because many pollutants continue doing harm for years and often decades) require that most communities work together. Indeed, affluent lifestyles in the United States, Western Europe, and other developed areas may harm people in poor areas of the world more than they will harm those enjoying such lifestyles because the poor are ill-equipped to deal with the consequences." Furthermore, by concerning themselves with the consequences of their actions on the global poor and polluted, Americans and the citizens of other developed countries will be helping their immediate neighbors and themselves in the long run. Actualization of international equity in conjunction with sustainable development may help prevent damage to the natural environment worldwide, thereby promoting human prosperity. The upshot is that the United States has not gone far enough in actively accepting equity as an objective of global environmental policy. It ought to go further in doing so for purely self-interested reasons. But there are more than self-interested reasons for the United States to move in this direction. It ought to embrace international equity as an objective of its global environmental policy for ethical reasons as well. We can find substantial ethical justification for the United States, in concert with other developed countries, to support politically and financially the codification and implementation of international equity considerations in international environmental agreements. The United States ought to be a leader in supporting a fair and just distribution among countries of the benefits, burdens, and decision-making authority associated with international environmental relations.' To invoke themes found in the corpus of ethical philosophy (but without here assuming the burden of philosophical exegesis!), the United States ought to adopt policies that engender international equity in at least the environmental field (1) to protect the health and well-being of the human species; (2) to promote basic human rights universally; (3) to help the poor be their own moral agents (a Kantian rationale); (4) to help right past wrongs and to take responsibility for past injustices (i.e., past and indeed ongoing U.S. pollution of the global environment); (5) to aid the world's least-advantaged people and countries (a Rawlsian-like conception); (6) and to fulfill the requirement of impartiality (among other ethical reasons)62óall in addition to the more clearly self-interested justification that doing so will bolster U.S. credibility and influence in international environmental negotiations and contemporary global politics more generally. One might argue, therefore, that the United States ought to be aiding the developing countries to achieve sustainable development because to do so may simultaneously reduce human suffering and reduce or potentially reverse environmental destruction that could otherwise threaten the healthy survival of the human species. Insofar as human-caused pollution and resource exploitation deny individuals and their communities the capacity to survive in a healthy condition, the United States, which consumes vastly more than necessary, has an obligation to stop that unnecessary consumption. From this basic rights perspective," the U.S. government should also take steps to reduce substantially the emissions of pollutants from within the United States that harm people in other countries." The United States ought to refrain from unsustainable use of natural resources and from pollution of environmental commons shared by people living in other countries or at least make a good effort toward that end because the people affected by these activities cannot reasonably be expected to support them (we would not be treating them as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument").



===Exploration PIC=== 
====1NC – “Exploration” PIC==== 

Text: (replace “exploration” with “cultural or political activity”)
The word “exploration” entrenches an imperialist mindset in the public allowing for US imperialism

Lester and Robinson, 9 (Daniel F. Lester, Research Fellow at the department of Astronomy at UT- author of more than eighty refereed papers in professional journals, Michael Robinson, associate professor of history at University of Hartford - focuses on the history of science and exploration, "Visions of Exploration", Space Policy journal Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, SciVerse)
Evidence points to exploration – in all its incarnations of meaning – as a cultural or political activity rather than a manifestation of instinct. History's most celebrated voyagers – Pytheas, Zhang He, and Columbus – sailed from nations with imperial ambitions [10] and [11]. As Stephen Pyne points in his survey of the ages of exploration, “There is nothing predestined about geographical discovery, any more than there is about a Renaissance, a tradition of Gothic cathedrals, or the invention of the electric light bulb” [7]. The notion that exploration expressed deeper impulses, such as wanderlust or curiosity, came much later, during the 18th century Enlightenment, when voyages took up the systematic practice of science: gathering specimens and ethnographic data, observing celestial events, and testing geographical hypotheses. These expeditions expressed a genuine curiosity about the globe, yet they elicited state sponsorship only because rulers saw political value in discovery expeditions, a form of “soft power” statecraft that could enhance national prestige rather then add to colonies or imperial coffers [12] and [13]. If 18th century audiences came to accept the lofty trait of curiosity as a driving force behind voyages of discovery, 19th century audiences found deeper impulses behind humanity's urge to explore. In particular, the Romantic Movement gave rise to ideas central to the ethos of modern exploration. The first of these was that discovery is a process that includes, but is not contained by, practical pursuits. While geographical discovery, science, and resource extraction all have their parts to play, exploration has an intangible, ineffable quality that cannot simply be reduced to logical goals. The second idea (which follows closely from the first) was that the value of exploration is tied to the subjective experience of the explorer, a symbol for the nation at home [14]. 2.2. Exploration in American history By contrast, Lewis and Clark's 1804 Corps of Discovery did not carry much symbolic weight in the 19th century. While it succeeded in most of its scientific and political goals, the expedition returned with few specimens and was slow to publish its results. Consequently Lewis and Clark's exploits only became famous at the beginning of the 20th century. More broadly speaking, however, Americans had begun to accept the patriotic and Romantic meanings of exploration. As a result, the US government increasingly sponsored expeditions on missions symbolic as well as practical after 1830. Congress now looked to exploration as a means of enhancing national reputation, not simply a way to advance military or commercial objectives. Starting with the departure of the US Exploring Expedition to the Pacific in 1838, the USA pursued a series of international discovery expeditions. In these endeavors science remained an important expeditionary goal. US expeditions put on their best face, sailing with corps of “scientifics” to advance geographical knowledge and, in the process, to persuade other nations that the USA was more than a republic of untutored farmers. In short, pursuit of knowledge gave US expeditions symbolic heft. It ushered the United States into an enlightenment tradition of imperial voyaging and – its organizers hoped – into the ranks of civilized nations [15]. As the USA became a nation of cities, railways, and stockyards in the late 1800s, Americans looked back nostalgically to their itinerant and expeditionary past, celebrating exploration figures such as Christopher Columbus at the World Columbian Exposition of 1893 and Lewis and Clark (who were still relatively unknown) at the Lewis and Clark Centenary of 1905. While 19th century Americans had been eager to identify themselves as people of culture and civilization, 20th century Americans were more inclined to revel in, and embellish, their buckskin past, weaving the idea of the frontier into a story of American progress. Historian Frederick Jackson Turner first advanced this idea in 1893 in his famous essay “The Significance of the Frontier in American History.” [16]. Today the Turnerian spirit is alive and well, reflected in the broad range of people and activities linked to exploration. As space historian Roger Launius argues, Turner's frontier thesis has been particularly popular within NASA. “Americans have always moved towards new frontiers,” wrote NASA Administrator James Fletcher in 1987, “because we are, above all, a nation of pioneers with an insatiable urge to know the unknown. Space is no exception to that pioneering spirit.” [17]. Yet this romanticized view of the American frontier does not apply well to the conditions of 21st century space flight. As historian Steven Pyne pointed out at the 2002 meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, space flight lacks the drama of “first encounters”. Robotic explorers ranging over abiotic environments may never have the drama of Stanley's encounter with Livingstone. “With no distinctively human encounter possible, there is no compelling reason for humans to even serve as explorers,” Pyne suggests. Historical antecedents, then, must be treated with care [18].
Imperialism inevitably results in extinction

Istavan Mezaros, not a fan of capitalism, 2003, “Militarism and the coming wars”
It is not for the first time in history, in our days, that militarism weighs on the consciousness of the people as a nightmare. To go into detail would take far too long. However, here it should be enough to go back in history only as far as the nineteenth century when militarism as a major instrument of policy-making came into its own, with the unfolding of modern imperialism on a global scale, in contrast to its earlier – much more limited – varieties. By the last third of the nineteenth century not only the British and French Empires were prominent rulers of vast territories but the United States, too, made its heavy imprint by directly or indirectly taking over the former colonies of the Spanish Empire in Latin America, adding to them the bloody repression of a great liberation struggle in the Philippines and installing themselves as rulers in that area in a way which still today persists in one form or another. Nor should we forget the calamities caused by “Iron Chancellor” Bismarck’s imperialist ambitions and their aggravated pursuit later on by his successors, resulting in the eruption of the First World War and its deeply antagonistic aftermath, bringing with it Hitler’s Nazi revanchism and thereby very clearly foreshadowing the Second World War itself. The dangers and immense suffering caused by all attempts at solving deep-seated social problems by militaristic interventions, on any scale, are obvious enough. If, however, we look more closely at the historical trend of militaristic adventures, it becomes frighteningly clear that they show an ever greater intensification and an ever-increasing scale, from local confrontations to two horrendous World Wars in the twentieth century, and to the potential annihilation of humankind when we reach our own time. It is most relevant to mention in this context the distinguished Prussian military officer and practical as well as theoretical strategist, Karl Marie von Clausewitz (1780-1831), who died in the same year as Hegel; both of them killed by cholera. It was von Clausewitz, Director of the Military School of Berlin in the last thirteen years of his life, who in his posthumously published book – Vom Kriege (“On War”, 1833) – offered a still today frequently quoted classic definition of the relationship between politics and war: “war is the continuation of politics by other means”. 2 This famous definition was tenable until quite recently, but has become totally untenable in our time. It assumed the rationality of the actions which connect the two domains of politics and war as the continuation of one another. In this sense, the war in question had to be winnable, at least in principle, even if miscalculations leading to defeat could be contemplated at the instrumental level. Defeat by itself could not destroy the rationality of war as such, since after the – however unfavourable – new consolidation of politics the defeated party could plan another round of war as the rational continuation of its politics by other means. Thus the absolute condition of von Clausewitz’s equation to be satisfied was the winnability of war in principle, so as to recreate the “eternal cycle” of politics leading to war, and back to politics leading to another war, and so on ad infinitum. The actors involved in such confrontations were the national states. No matter how monstrous the damage inflicted by them on their adversaries, and even on their own people (just remember Hitler!), the rationality of the military pursuit was guaranteed if the war could be considered winnable in principle. Today the situation is qualitatively different. For two principal reasons. First, the objective of the feasible war at the present phase of historical development, in accordance with the objective requirements of imperialism – world domination by capital’s most powerful state, in tune with its own political design of ruthless authoritarian “globalization” (dressed up as “free exchange” in a U.S.-ruled global market) – is ultimately unwinnable, foreshadowing, instead, the destruction of humankind. This objective by no stretch of imagination could be considered a rational objective in accord with the stipulated rational requirement of the “continuation of politics by other means” conducted by one nation, or by one group of nations against another. Aggressively imposing the will of one powerful national state over all of the others, even if for cynical tactical reasons the advocated war is absurdly camouflaged as a “purely limited war” leading to other “open ended limited wars”, can therefore be qualified only as total irrationality. The second reason greatly reinforces the first. For the weapons already available for waging the war or wars of the twenty first century are capable of exterminating not only the adversary but the whole of humanity, the first time ever in history. Nor should we have the illusion that the existing weaponry marks the very end of the road. Others, even more instantly lethal ones, might appear tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Moreover, threatening the use of such weapons is by now considered an acceptable state strategic device. Thus, put reasons one and two together, and the conclusion is inescapable: envisaging war as the mechanism of global government in today’s world underlines that we find ourselves at the precipice of absolute irrationality from which there can be no return if we accept the ongoing course of development. What was missing from von Clausewitz’s classic definition of war as the “continuation of politics by 3 other means” was the investigation of the deeper underlying causes of war and the possibility of their avoidance. The challenge to face up to such causes is more urgent today than ever before. For the war of the twenty first century looming ahead of us is not only “not winnable in principle”. Worse than that, it is in principle unwinnable. Consequently, envisaging the pursuit of war, as the American administration’s September 17, 2002 strategic document does, make Hitler’s irrationality look like the model of rationality.

====2NC Stuff==== 


The ambiguity of “exploration” justifies acquiring funds for imperialist actions

Lester and Robinson, 9 (Daniel F. Lester, Research Fellow at the department of Astronomy at UT- author of more than eighty refereed papers in professional journals, Michael Robinson, associate professor of history at University of Hartford - focuses on the history of science and exploration, "Visions of Exploration", Space Policy journal Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, SciVerse)
That Americans have broadly embraced exploration as a part of their national identity seems clear. Yet, as the above examples show, this embrace provides little insight into the meanings of exploration, the effect of such meanings on the planning of missions, or the value of such missions to the nation. Why does such an important term as “exploration” retain such ambiguity? One finds many answers, but perhaps comedian Gary Owen explains it best. Certain words, Owen states, are “freedom words”, terms with meanings broad enough to label things that would be hard to categorize. Like Owen's made-up word “insegrevious”, exploration has come to mean whatever its users want it to mean. In truth, the ambiguity of the term “exploration” has certain advantages, particularly from the perspective of funding and policy making. Because funding of NASA budgets requires broad agreement in Congress, the fuzziness of exploration often avoids triggering debates that would weaken political support. “In the political realm, it's not desirable to have too precise a definition”, according to Scott Hubbard, Stanford Professor of Engineering and Former Director of NASA Ames Research Center, with respect to exploration. Within this environment, explains Hubbard, defining exploration too narrowly “is not without some peril”. Ian Pryke, Senior Fellow at George Mason University and Former Head of the European Space Agency's Washington Office, speaks in similar terms about the word. “A little bit of constructive ambiguity never hurts.” [19].

Imperialist empire building degrades life to the level of disposability and justifies all biopower

M.G.E Kelly, lecturer in Philosophy at Middlesex University, 2010, “International Biopolitics: Foucault, Globalisation and Imperialism” http://eprints.mdx.ac.uk/3887/1/Theoria_-_final.pdf
Our account is of a biopolitical imperialism, a biopolitical dimension to imperialism as understood in the Marxist sense.47 It adds the dimension of populationto the existing economic accounts of imperialism.. Economics is of course closely tied to biopolitics, to the wellbeing of the population and the functioning of administration. The economic dimension of imperialism is something that has been extensively studied and debated: we cannot deal with it here. Biopolitical imperialism is not meant to be an historically new form, unlike Hardt and Negri‟s Empire. Imperialism has been biopolitical for a long time: as long as both biopolitics and imperialism have existed concurrently. Mike Davis‟ work on nineteenth century imperialism, Late Victorian Holocausts, is instructive in this regard.48 Davis shows through case studies of India, China and Brazil that imperialism, present either in the form of direct government or that of economic interest, horribly devastated the welfare apparatuses of these countries, such as they were, during the nineteenth century. As Davis points out, this pattern is originary to the existence of a „third world‟, and reverses the situation which existed prior to the French Revolution, in which state welfare provision was far more advanced in the Orient than Europe.49 Moreover, the populations of these countries were decimated precisely in order to benefit European populations – the most graphic example of this is the export of foodstuffs in massive quantities to Britain from India while Indians starved in their millions.50 It would seem the situation a century later is similar in its broad pattern. The IMF-World Bank complex‟s imposition of „structural adjustment‟ austerity measures have mandated slashing spending on basic biopolitics and the conversion of economies to exporting to the First World. Imperialism ensnares through direct investment (buying resources and the means of production) and by „development loans‟, both of which foster the harvesting of surpluses from the economy, not biopolitics. Investors may take care of their workforce, but they don‟t take care of the country more generally. Neoliberal economic reform in the periphery refers precisely to the dismantling of biopolitics. In the centre, neoliberalism is imposed with care and consideration, not absolutely; although there has been dismantling here, biopolitical protections are not simply trashed, but they are in the periphery. That is, the introduction of neoliberalism in the centre occurs in the context of a state that is still fundamentally concerned with the welfare and consent of a population, whereas elsewhere it is imposed from without, overriding such concerns. The states and civil societies of the First World essentially do not care about humanity outside their populations and derive a benefit for their own population at the expense of those outside. As Foucault puts it in explicating the relation of the subject to the pre-biopolitical sovereign, those outside are „neutral‟ „from the point of view of life and death‟.51 This allows the life of those outside to be actively imperilled for any benefit, no matter how marginal, accruing to those inside. The biopolity assumes, in respect of the masses outside its population, „the right to take life or let live‟:52 this „right to take life‟ is an aspect we have yet to examine, the use of force – war – as the thanatopolitical tool for the regulation of the outside.

===Russia - Asteroids=== 
====1NC==== 
Text: The Russian Space Agency should substantially increase its efforts to survey near earth objects, including both ground-based and space-based tracking programs.

Russia dominates space - most reliable, cost-efficient

Matthews and Nemtsova 7/8, 2011 [Owen, Anna, Contributers to The Daily Beast " Russians Win the Space Race" http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2011/07/08/it-s-goodbye-shuttle-hello-soyuz-after-atlantis-last-flight.html]
When the space shuttle Atlantis blasts off from the Kennedy Space Center today on its final mission, it won’t just be the 30-year history of the world’s only reusable space shuttle that is coming to an end—it will be a whole chapter of the space race. After the shuttle returns to earth in a twelve days’ time, the United States will no longer have a manned space flight program for the first time in five decades. More, for the foreseeable future it will be Russia, the U.S.’s old space rival, which will be the only country in the world regularly putting men and women into space.“It's in the DNA of our great country to reach for the stars and explore,” Mark Kelly, commander of the penultimate shuttle mission Endeavour, told reporters just before he blasted off in May, watched by his wife, Gabrielle Giffords, the congresswoman who was seriously wounded in a gun attack on Jan. 8 in Tucson, Ariz. “We must not stop.” But the reality is that the shuttle program has been a costly experiment that ultimately failed in its original intention—to create an easily reusable space vehicle that could travel into orbit weekly. Faced with mounting costs and criticism, NASA has pulled the plug after 135 missions and $192 billion.
The demise of the shuttle leaves Russia’s clunkier and more old-fashioned, but ultimately cheaper and more reliable, space technologies in the driver's seat. Back in its heyday in the 1960s, the space race was “really a proxy war of nuclear dominance,” says Piers Bizony, coauthor of Starman: The Truth Behind the Legend of Yuri Gagarin. “Russia and America flaunted their potentially destructive technologies in peaceful camouflage, with every successful mission leading to boasts of supremacy.” Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin’s manned space flight in 1961 was widely touted as evidence of the superiority of Soviet science, for instance. Nowadays, spacemen in Russia and America alike have to scramble to raise money. In Russia’s case during the cash-strapped 1990s, it resorted to taking paying tourists aloft and filming ads for Israeli milk and pretzels in the old Mir space station. But in an irony that Nikita Khrushchev, the father of the Soviet space program, would have appreciated, it’s now Russia, with its clunky but functional technologies, that is the last man standing. The décor of Star City, Russia’s astronaut training center near Moscow, may be distinctly Soviet era and the paintwork peeling, “but don’t be fooled,” says Bizony. “Russia won the opening rounds of the space race and is poised to dominate the next stages too.”As the U.S. scraps its shuttle program and shelves its replacement, Russia’s space agency Roscosmos is forging ahead. Russia sends at least four cosmonaut-carrying capsules and 20 more unmanned cargo launches into space every year. This year the Russian government earmarked $900 million for the building of a new cosmodrome in Blagoveshchensk in Russia’s Far East to replace the old Baikonur base, now inconveniently located in the former Soviet republic of Kazakhstan. Another hundred million dollars is going toward the development of a new rocket, dubbed the Rus, and a new spaceship. Russia is testing a new launcher for satellites, called the Angara, later this year, and it built a new launch pad for its trusty old Soyuz rocket in French Guiana, headquarters of France’s Ariane satellite-launching rocket program.The secret of the Russian space program’s ongoing success is in doing things simply and well.It’s Russia that is designing a Mars mission lander—and pioneering the human side of a future Mars mission, with volunteers sitting in a mockup of a space capsule in Star City for three years to test systems and psychiatric effects of long-term space travel. “This is the renaissance of Russian space industry,” says former cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev, holder of the world record for time spent in space—803 days over six tours—and now the director of the Gagarin Training Center near Moscow.Not that NASA, once Roscosmos’ archrival, is completely out of the picture. True, after Atlantis blasts off, space shuttles will no longer take off from Cape Canaveral. But the U.S. still provides a key element for advancing mankind’s reach for the stars: cash. In March NASA signed a new two-year, $753 million agreement with Russia to send American astronauts to the International Space Station through June 2016—almost $63 million per trip. "That's not just for a ride," administrator Charles Bolden is quick to point out, but for two years of "intense" astronaut training, most of it in Moscow. "You used to be able to go into a gas station and get full service ... We get full service from the Russians, old-time full service."Service is not the only old-school thing about Roscosmos. The secret of the Russian space program’s ongoing success is in doing things simply and well—“if it works, it works,” says photographer Maria Gruzdeva, who was given unprecedented access to Russia’s space installations for a photo book commemorating the 50th anniversary of Gagarin’s flight. “Design is all about simplicity. The same goes for technology. Why reinvent the wheel?” The result is that “Russian technologies have not advanced much from what was invented under [Sergei] Korolev in the 1950s,” says Oleg Ivanovsky, a veteran engineer who designed, tested, and launched the first Sputnik and gave Yuri Gagarin his last hug before helping him into the capsule that was to take him into orbit.Half a century later, and the Soyuz TMA-21 rocket that took two Russian and one U.S. astronauts to the International Space Station in March is basically the same machine that opened the space age by launching Sputnik and Gagarin (though with the modern-day addition of an Orthodox icon of the Holy Mother of Kazan, donated by the patriarch of Moscow). The Americans, on the other hand, spent billions perfecting new designs—and when they finally worked perfectly, abandoned them and moved on to the next project. The Russian if-its-not-broken-don’t-fix-it approach may not be a winning formula for pushing the boundaries of human knowledge—but it has enabled the creaky Russian space establishment to keep functioning even through the lean years.The difference in approach has become all the starker as the financial crisis bites in the U.S. Last year President Obama struck a line through plans for the shuttle’s successor, the Orion, and confined NASA to 2010 spending levels. At the same time Russia, at the other end of the world’s commodities see-saw, is flush with cash as oil prices soar. Funding for Roscosmos has increased by nearly seven times in the last decade, from $300 million to $2.1 billion. Though that’s still dwarfed by NASA’s $20 billion annual spending, Russia manages to get much more bang for its buck by paying low salaries—around $1,000 a month for an average space engineer, and $5,000 for an astronaut—and by riding on massive infrastructure left over from the Soviet era. But perhaps the most striking difference between Russia and America is in their attitudes to their respective space programs. NASA’s future is uncertain because “it has not so much been fulfilling a new dream as living in the shadow of an old one,” says Bizony. For most Americans, the space race was won when Neil Armstrong landed on the moon in 1969; “relative to Russians, their interest has waned in the new century,” Bizony adds. For Russia, by contrast, being a major player in the space game remains a point of national pride. Massive festivities were held across Russia for the 50th anniversary of the Gagarin flight last April 12. A Soviet make of space-branded watches called Raketa—worn by Gagarin himself—has been revived as a luxury brand for Russia’s patriotically minded new rich. And when Russia’s space program makes a misstep—such as when three Russian navigational satellites ended up in the Pacific Ocean after technicians overfilled one of the tanks in the rocket’s upper stage last December—the Kremlin very publicly steps in. After the December debacle, President Dmitry Medvedev personally sacked top managers, and earlier this year called for Russia to develop its own space-exploration program for “our nation’s scientific ambitions … if we do not do this, we will fall behind.”

====2NC Cards==== 
Solves NEO surveys just as well - only other country with a competent program

Jaramillo et al. 10 [Cesar - Program Manager of the Space Security Index (SSI), "Space Security 2010" http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf]
Russia is the only other state with a dedicated space surveillance system called the Space Surveillance System (SSS), which uses mainly early warning radars and more than 20 optical and electro-optical facilities at 14 locations on Earth. 33 The main optical observation system, Okno (meaning “window”), located in the mountains near the Tajik city of Nurek, is used to track objects from 2,000 to 40,000 km in altitude. 34 The SSS has significant limitations due to its limited geographic distribution: it cannot track satellites at very low inclinations or in the Western hemisphere, and the operation of Russian surveillance sensors is reportedly erratic. 35 The network as a whole is estimated to carry out some 50,000 observations daily, contributing to a catalog of approximately 5,000 objects, mostly in LEO. 36 While information from the system is not classified, Russia does not have a formal process to widely disseminate space surveillance information. 37

==Kritiks== 
===Security=== 
====1NC==== 


Security discourse causes apocalypse in the name of survival

Peter Coviello, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, ‘1

(Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)
Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not to say that the world we inhabit is in any way post-apocalyptic. Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed – it did not go away. And here I want to hazard my second assertion: if, in the nuclear age of yesteryear, apocalypse signified an event threatening everyone and everything with (in Jacques Derrida’s suitably menacing phrase) “remainderless and a-symbolic destruction,”6 then in the postnuclear world apocalypse is an affair whose parameters are definitively local in shape and in substance, apocalypse is defined now by the affliction it brings somewhere else, always to an “other” people whose very presence might then be written as a kind of dangerous contagion, threatening the safety and the prosperity of a cherished “general population.” This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag’s incisive observation, from 1989, that, “Apocalypse is now a long-running serial: not ‘Apocalypse Now’ but ‘Apocalypse from Now On.’”7 The decisive point here in the perpetuation of the threat of apocalypse (the point Sontag goes on, at length, to miss) is that apocalypse is ever present because, as an element in a vast economy of power, it is ever useful. That is, through the perpetual threat of destruction – through the constant reproduction of the figure of apocalypse – agencies of power ensure their authority to act on and through the bodies of a particular population. No one turns this point more persuasively than Michel Foucault, who in the final chapter of his first volume of The History of Sexuality addresses himself to the problem of a power that is less repressive than productive, less life-threatening than, in his words, “life-administering.” Power, he contends, “exerts a positive influence on life … [and] endeavors to administer, optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to precise controls and comprehensive regulations.” In his brief comments on what he calls “the atomic situation,” however, Foucault insists as well that the productiveness of modern power must not be mistaken for a uniform repudiation of violent or even lethal means. For as “managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race,” agencies of modern power presume to act “on the behalf of the existence of everyone.” Whatsoever might be construed as a threat to life and survival serves to authorize any expression of force, no matter how invasive or, indeed, potentially annihilating. “If genocide is indeed the dream of modern power,” Foucault writes, “this is not because of a recent return to the ancient right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population.”8 For a state that would arm itself not with the power to kill its population, but with a more comprehensive power over the patterns and functioning of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

Vote neg to critique the aff’s security discourse as a prior question

Graeme Cheeseman, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, ‘96

(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)
This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations in Australia, even though they are gaining influence worldwide as traditional modes of theory and practice are rendered inadequate by global trends that defy comprehension, let alone policy. The inability to give meaning to global changes reflects partly the enclosed, elitist world of professional security analysts and bureaucratic experts, where entry is gained by learning and accepting to speak a particular, exclusionary language. The contributors to this book are familiar with the discourse, but accord no privileged place to its ‘knowledge form as reality’ in debates on defence and security. Indeed, they believe that debate will be furthered only through a long overdue critical re-evaluation of elite perspectives. Pluralistic, democratically-oriented perspectives on Australia’s identity are both required and essential if Australia’s thinking on defence and security is to be invigorated.
This is not a conventional policy book; nor should it be, in the sense of offering policy-makers and their academic counterparts sets of neat alternative solutions, in familiar language and format, to problems they pose. This expectation is in itself a considerable part of the problem to be analysed. It is, however, a book about policy, one that questions how problems are framed by policy-makers. It challenges the proposition that irreducible bodies of real knowledge on defence and security exist independently of their ‘context in the world’, and it demonstrates how security policy is articulated authoritatively by the elite keepers of that knowledge, experts trained to recognize enduring, universal wisdom. All others, from this perspective, must accept such wisdom or remain outside the expert domain, tainted by their inability to comply with the ‘rightness’ of the official line. But it is precisely the official line, or at least its image of the world, that needs to be problematised. If the critic responds directly to the demand for policy alternatives, without addressing this image, he or she is tacitly endorsing it. Before engaging in the policy debate the critics need to reframe the basic terms of reference. This book, then, reflects and underlines the importance of Antonio Gramsci and Edward Said’s ‘critical intellectuals’.15
The demand, tacit or otherwise, that the policy-maker’s frame of reference be accepted as the only basis for discussion and analysis ignores a three thousand year old tradition commonly associated with Socrates and purportedly integral to the Western tradition of democratic dialogue. More immediately, it ignores post-seventeenth century democratic traditions which insist that a good society must have within it some way of critically assessing its knowledge and the decisions based upon that knowledge which impact upon citizens of such a society. This is a tradition with a slightly different connotation in contemporary liberal democracies which, during the Cold War, were proclaimed different and superior to the totalitarian enemy precisely because there were institutional checks and balances upon power. In short, one of the major differences between ‘open societies’ and their (closed) counterparts behind the Iron Curtain was that the former encouraged the critical testing of the knowledge and decisions of the powerful and assessing them against liberal democratic principles. The latter tolerated criticism only on rare and limited occasions. For some, this represented the triumph of rational-scientific methods of inquiry and techniques of falsification. For others, especially since positivism and rationalism have lost much of their allure, it meant that for society to become open and liberal, sectors of the population must be independent of the state and free to question its knowledge and power. Though we do not expect this position to be accepted by every reader, contributors to this book believe that critical dialogue is long overdue in Australia and needs to be listened to. For all its liberal democratic trappings, Australia’s security community continues to invoke closed monological narratives on defence and security.
This book also questions the distinctions between policy practice and academic theory that inform conventional accounts of Australian security. One of its major concerns, particularly in chapters 1 and 2, is to illustrate how theory is integral to the practice of security analysis and policy prescription. The book also calls on policy-makers, academics and students of defence and security to think critically about what they are reading, writing and saying; to begin to ask, of their work and study, difficult and searching questions raised in other disciplines; to recognise, no matter how uncomfortable it feels, that what is involved in theory and practice is not the ability to identify a replacement for failed models, but a realisation that terms and concepts – state sovereignty, balance of power, security, and so on – are contested and problematic, and that the world is indeterminate, always becoming what is written about it. Critical analysis which shows how particular kinds of theoretical presumptions can effectively exclude vital areas of political life from analysis has direct practical implications for policy-makers, academics and citizens who face the daunting task of steering Australia through some potentially choppy international waters over the next few years. There is also much of interest in the chapters for those struggling to give meaning to a world where so much that has long been taken for granted now demands imaginative, incisive reappraisal. The contributors, too, have struggled to find meaning, often despairing at the terrible human costs of international violence. This is why readers will find no single, fully formed panacea for the world’s ills in general, or Australia’s security in particular. There are none. Every chapter, however, in its own way, offers something more than is found in orthodox literature, often by exposing ritualistic Cold War defence and security mind-sets that are dressed up as new thinking. Chapters 7 and 9, for example, present alternative ways of engaging in security and defence practice. Others (chapters 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8) seek to alert policy-makers, academics and students to alternative theoretical possibilities which might better serve an

Australian community pursuing security and prosperity in an uncertain world. All chapters confront the policy community and its counterparts in the academy with a deep awareness of the intellectual and material constraints imposed by dominant traditions of realism, but they avoid dismissive and exclusionary terms which often in the past characterized exchanges between policy-makers and their critics. This is because, as noted earlier, attention needs to be paid to the words and the thought processes of those being criticized. A close reading of this kind draws attention to underlying assumptions, showing they need to be recognized and questioned. A sense of doubt (in place of confident certainty) is a necessary prelude to a genuine search for alternative policies. First comes an awareness of the need for new perspectives, then specific policies may follow.
As Jim George argues in the following chapter, we need to look not so much at contending policies as they are made for us but at challenging ‘the discursive process which gives [favoured interpretations of “reality”] their meaning and which direct [Australia’s] policy/analytical/military responses’. This process is not restricted to the small, official defence and security establishment huddled around the US-Australian War Memorial in Canberra. It also encompasses much of Australia’s academic defence and security community located primarily though not exclusively within the Australian National University and the University College of the University of New South Wales. These discursive processes are examined in detail in subsequent chapters as authors attempt to make sense of a politics of exclusion and closure which exercises disciplinary power over Australia’s security community. They also question the discourse of ‘regional security’, ‘security cooperation’, ‘peacekeeping’ and ‘alliance politics’ that are central to Australia’s official and academic security agenda in the 1990s. This is seen as an important task especially when, as is revealed, the disciplines of International Relations and Strategic Studies are under challenge from critical and theoretical debates ranging across the social sciences and humanities; debates that are nowhere to be found in Australian defence and security studies. The chapters graphically illustrate how Australia’s public policies on defence and security are informed, underpinned and legitimised by a narrowly-based intellectual enterprise which draws strength from contested concepts of realism and liberalism, which in turn seek legitimacy through policy-making processes. Contributors ask whether Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?

====1NC environment link==== 
The 1AC’s engagement in green rhetoric throws the left a bone while legitimizing the state as a means to protect against threats
Jon Barnett, Fellow in the School of Social and Environmental Enquiry at University of Melbourne, 2001, The Meaning of Environmental Security: Ecological Politics and Policy in the New Security Era, pg. 87 p1 – pg. 88 p3)
The NSS, DOD and State Department interpret environmental security in a way that maintains the legitimacy of the US government in the face of pressing environmental problems. By deploying a green rhetoric the state makes enough of a token gesture to placate the concerns of the general public and to forestall a crisis of legitimacy. This completely fails to engage with environmental problems themselves, for while environmental insecurity is a product of capitalism, militarism and industrialisation, the approach of these agencies is to deploy ‘a complex repertoire of responsibility and crisis-displacement strategies’ (Hay 1994: 217). The US approach to environmental security maintains legitimacy by: a combination of symptom amelioration, token gesturism, the ‘greening’ of legitimating political ideology, and the displacement of the crisis in a variety of different directions: either downward into civil society; or upward onto a global political agenda: or, indeed, sideways in presenting the crisis as another body’s (e.g., state’s) legitimization problem. (Hay 1994: 221) Most of these tactics are evident in US environmental security policy discourse. The lethargic effort to clean up domestic contaminated bases but not those abroad is indicative of the ‘symptom amelioration’ tactic. The ‘greening of political ideology’ is most clearly manifest in the envi¬ronment—conflict discourse, which is fundamentally consistent with realist international relations theory. There is little displacement down wards into civil society, but the tactic of displacing problems up to the global level is clear, particularly in Christopher’s pronouncements. That this global rhetoric also opens up the possibility of the US as global manager and policeman further enhances the lure of this tactic. Finally, displacement sideways to present environmental degradation as someone else’s problem is also clearly apparent in the references to instability and political upheaval which intertwine with the environment—conflict discourse. For the US government, then, environmental security is used to preserve legitimacy, avoid radical reform and distract attention from the contradictions of the modern world for which the US is inextricably responsible. Hay calls such continued strategies of displacement ‘dysfunctional long-term tendencies’ which in this case make the United States ‘a profound threat to global security’ (Hay 1994: 227). All of these approaches to environmental security interpret the environment as a direct or indirectthreat to US interests. Talking in terms of threats in this way confuses environmental problems with military problems. This is an inappropriate way to understand environ mental problems, particularly given that ‘threat’ in security discourse is a potent symbol of deliberate and malignant danger to the inside emanating from the outside. In this respect the environment becomes another danger which helps constitute the sense of Us necessary for the popular acceptance of the nation-state. Talking in terms of global threats helps to blur the distinctions between subject and object, and cause and effect, and this obscures US complicity in environmental degradation. This environ mental security policy discourse evades the most salient point about national security and environmental degradation: that the country most complicit in ‘global’ environmental degradation is the United States itself. Talking in terms of threats is thus a discursive tactic that simultaneously downgrades the interdependence of environmental problems whilst excluding from consideration the role of US businesses, consumers and government in generating environmental problems. Campbell is succinct about this discourse of threats and Others: One of the effects of this interpretation has been to reinscribe East—West understandings of global politics in a period of international transformation by suggesting that the ‘they’ in the East are technologically less sophisticated and ecologically more dangerous than the ‘we’ in the West. This produces a new boundary that demarcates the ‘East’ from the ‘West’…. But environmental danger can also be figured in a manner that challenges traditional forms of identity inscribed in the capitalist economy of the ‘West’. As a discourse of danger which results in disciplinary strategies that are deterritorialized, involve communal co-operation, and refigure economic relationships, the environ ment can serve to enframe a different reading of ‘reasoning man’ than that associated with the subjectivities of liberal capitalism, thereby making it more unstable and undecidable than anticommunism. (Campbell 1992: 197) It is precisely these implications, of deterritorialization, communal co operation and refiguring economies that threaten the US security elite, and so are denied and excluded in their environmental security pronouncements. Reps of environmental apocalypse enable authoritarianism -- also hurts the same environmental movements they purport to help Buell 2003 – Professor of English @ Cornell (Fredrick, From Apocalypse to Way of Life. p. 200-2) Elaborating crisis is thus not ... ties to clearly terminal “nature.”

====1NC generic link==== 
Discourse of danger. The aff’s construction of threats rigs debate into how best to secure the Self from the Other.
David Grondin, Masters in Political Science & Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, ‘4 (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies) Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices in order to disclose what is hidden in the use of concepts such as “national security” have something valuable to say. Their more reflexive and critically-inclined view illustrates how terms used in realist discourses, such as state, anarchy, world order, revolution in military affairs, and security dilemmas, are produced by a specific historical, geographical and socio-political context as well as historical forces and social relations of power (Klein, 1994: 22). Since realist analysts do not question their ontology and yet purport to provide a neutral and objective analysis of a given world order based on military power and interactions between the most important political units, namely states, realist discourses constitute a political act in defense of the state. Indeed, “[…] it is important to recognize that to employ a textualizing approach to social policy involving conflict and war is not to attempt to reduce social phenomena to various concrete manifestations of language. Rather, it is an attempt to analyze the interpretations governing policy thinking. And it is important to recognize that policy thinking is not unsituated” (Shapiro, 1989a: 71). Policy thinking is practical thinking since it imposes an analytic order on the “real world”, a world that only exists in the analysts’ own narratives. In this light, Barry Posen’s political role in legitimizing American hegemonic power and national security conduct seems obvious: U.S. command of the commons provides an impressive foundation for selective engagement. It is not adequate for a policy of primacy. […] Command of the commons gives the United States a tremendous capability to harm others. Marrying that capability to a conservative policy of selective engagement helps make U.S. military power appear less threatening and more tolerable. Command of the commons creates additional collective goods for U.S. allies. These collective goods help connect U.S. military power to seemingly prosaic welfare concerns. U.S. military power underwrites world trade, travel, global telecommunications, and commercial remote sensing, which all depend on peace and order in the commons” (Posen, 2003: 44 and 46). Adopting a more critical stance, David Campbell points out that “[d]anger is not an objective condition. It (sic) is not a thing which exists independently of those to whom it may become a threat. […] Nothing is a risk in itself; [...] it all depends on how one analyses the danger, considers the event” (Campbell, 1998: 1-2). In the same vein, national security discourse does not evaluate objective threats; rather, it is itself a product of historical processes and structures in the state and society that produces it. Whoever has the power to define security is then the one who has the authority to write legitimate security discourses and conduct the policies that legitimize them. The realist analysts and state leaders who invoke national security and act in its name are the same individuals who hold the power to securitize threats by inserting them in a discourse that frames national identity and freezes it.9 Like many concepts, realism is essentially contested. In a critical reinterpretation of realism, James Der Derian offers a genealogy of realism that deconstructs the uniform realism represented in IR: he reveals many other versions of realism that are never mentioned in International Relations texts (Der Derian, 1995: 367). I am aware that there are many realist discourses in International Relations, but they all share a set of assumptions, such as “the state is a rational unitary actor”, “the state is the main actor in international relations”, “states pursue power defined as a national interest”, and so on. I want to show that realism is one way of representing reality, not the reflection of reality. While my aim here is not to rehearse Der Derian’s genealogy of realism, I do want to spell out the problems with a positivist theory of realism and a correspondence philosophy of language. Such a philosophy accepts nominalism, wherein language as neutral description corresponds to reality. This is precisely the problem of epistemic realism and of the realism characteristic of American realist theoretical discourses. And since for poststructuralists language constitutes reality, a reinterpretation of realism as constructed in these discourses is called for.10 These scholars cannot refer to the “essentially contested nature of realism” and then use “realism as the best language to reflect a self-same phenomenon” (Der Derian, 1995: 374). Let me be clear: I am not suggesting that the many neorealist and neoclassical realist discourses in International Relations are not useful. Rather, I want to argue that these technicist and scientist forms of realism serve political purposes, used as they are in many think tanks and foreign policy bureaucracies to inform American political leaders. This is the relevance of deconstructing the uniform realism (as used in International Relations): it brings to light its locatedness in a hermeneutic circle in which it is unwittingly trapped (Der Derian, 1995: 371). And as Friedrich Kratochwil argues, “[…] the rejection of a correspondence theory of truth does not condemn us, as it is often maintained, to mere ‘relativism’ and/or to endless “deconstruction” in which anything goes but it leaves us with criteria that allows us to distinguish and evaluate competing theoretical creations” (Kratochwil, 2000 : 52). Given that political language is not a neutral medium that gives expression to ideas formed independently of structures of signification that sustain political action and thought, American realist discourses belonging to the neorealist or neoclassical realist traditions cannot be taken as mere descriptions of reality. We are trapped in the production of discourses in which national leaders and security speech acts emanating from realist discourses develop and reinforce a notion of national identity as synonymous with national security. U.S. national security conduct should thus be understood through the prism of the theoretical discourses of American political leaders and realist scholars that co-constitute it. Realist discourses depict American political leaders acting in defense of national security, and political leaders act in the name of national security. In the end, what distinguishes realist discourses is that they depict the United States as having behaved like a national security state since World War II, while legitimating the idea that the United States should continue to do so. Political scientists and historians “are engaged in making (poesis), not merely recording or reporting” (Medhurst, 2000: 17). Precisely in this sense, rhetoric is not the description of national security conduct; it constitutes it. Writing the National Security State [F]rom the giddy days of the first and through the most morbid moments of the Second Cold War, the popular culture, journalism, and academic study of international intrigue has been an important intertext of power and play in world politics. This intertext represents a field of ideological contestation where national security strategies, with their endgames of impossibly real wars of mass annihilation can be played and replayed for mass consumption as a simulation of war in which states compete, interests clash, and spy counters spy, all in significant fun (Der Derian, 1992: 41). It is difficult to trace the exact origins of the concept of “national security”. It seems however that its currency in policymaking circles corresponds to the American experience of the Second World War and of the early years of what came to be known as the “Cold War”. In this light, it is fair to say that the meaning of the American national security state is bound up with the Cold War context. If one is engaged in deciphering the meaning of the Cold War prism for American leaders, what matters is not uncovering the “reality” of the Cold War as such, but how, it conferred meaning and led people to act upon it as “reality”. The Cold War can thus be seen as a rhetorical construction, in which its rhetorical dimensions gave meaning to its material manifestations, such as the national security state apparatus. This is not to say that the Cold War never existed per se, nor does it “make [it] any less real or less significant for being rhetorical” (Medhurst, 2000: 6). As Lynn Boyd Hinds and Theodore Otto Windt, Jr. stress, “political rhetoric creates political reality, structures belief systems, and provides the fundamental bases for decisions” (Hinds and Windt, cited in Medhurst, 2000: 6). In this sense, the Cold War ceases to be a historical period which meaning can be written permanently and becomes instead a struggle that is not context-specific and not geared towards one specific enemy. It is “an orientation towards difference in which those acting on behalf of an assumed but never fixed identity are tempted by the lure of otherness to interpret all dangers as fundamental threats which require the mobilization of a population” (Campbell, 2000: 227). Indeed, if the meaning of the Cold War is not context-specific, the concept of national security cannot be disconnected from what is known as the Cold War, since its very meaning(s) emerged within it (Rosenberg, 1993 : 277).11 If the American national security state is a given for realist analysts,12 it is important to ask whether we can conceive the United States during the Cold War as anything other than a national security state.13 To be clear, I am not suggesting that there is any such essentialized entity as a “national security state”.14 When I refer to the American national security state, I mean the representation of the American state in the early years of the Cold War, the spirit of which is embodied in the National Security Act of 1947 (Der Derian, 1992: 76). The term “national security state” designates both an institutionalization of a new governmental architecture designed to prepare the United States politically and militarily to face any foreign threat and the ideology – the discourse – that gave rise to as well as symbolized it. In other words, to understand the idea of a national security state, one needs to grasp the discursive power of national security in shaping the reality of the Cold War in both language and institutions (Rosenberg, 1993 : 281). A national security state feeds on threats as it channels all its efforts into meeting current and future military or security threats. The creation of the CIA, the Department of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the National Security Council at the onset of the Cold War gave impetus to a state mentality geared to permanent preparedness for war. The construction of threats is thus essential to its well-being, making intelligence agencies privileged tools in accomplishing this task. As American historian of U.S. foreign relations Michael Hogan observes in his study on the rise of the national security state during the Truman administration, “the national security ideology framed the Cold War discourse in a system of symbolic representation that defined America’s national identity by reference to the un-American ‘other,’ usually the Soviet Union, Nazi Germany, or some other totalitarian power” (Hogan, 1998: 17). Such a binary system made it difficult for any domestic dissent from U.S. policy to emerge – it would have “amounted to an act of disloyalty” (Hogan, 1998: 18).15 While Hogan distinguishes advocates from critics of the American national security state, his view takes for granted that there is a given and fixed American political culture that differs from the “new” national security ideology. It posits an “American way”, produced by its cultural, political, and historical experience. Although he stresses that differences between the two sides of the discourse are superficial, pertaining solely to the means, rather than the ends of the national security state, Hogan sees the national security state as a finished and legitimate state: an American state suited to the Cold War context of permanent war, while stopping short of a garrison state: Although government would grow larger, taxes would go up, and budget deficits would become a matter of routine, none of these and other transformations would add up to the crushing regime symbolized in the metaphor of the garrison state. The outcome instead would be an American national security state that was shaped as much by the country’s democratic political culture as it was by the perceived military imperatives of the Cold War (Hogan, 1998: 22). I disagree with this essentialist view of the state identity of the United States. The United States does not need to be a national security state. If it was and is still constructed as such by many realist discourses, it is because these discourses serve some political purpose. Moreover, in keeping with my poststructuralist inclinations, I maintain that identity need not be, and indeed never is, fixed. In a scheme in which “to say is to do”, that is, from a perspective that accepts the performativity of language, culture becomes a relational site where identity politics happens rather than being a substantive phenomenon. In this sense, culture is not simply a social context framing foreign policy decision-making. Culture is “a signifying part of the conditions of possibility for social being, […] the way in which culturalist arguments themselves secure the identity of subjects in whose name they speak” (Campbell, 1998: 221). The Cold War national security culture represented in realist discourses was constitutive of the American national security state. There was certainly a conflation of theory and policy in the Cold War military-intellectual complex, which “were observers of, and active participants in, defining the meaning of the Cold War. They contributed to portray the enemy that both reflected and fueled predominant ideological strains within the American body politic. As scholarly partners in the national security state, they were instrumental in defining and disseminating a Cold War culture” (Rubin, 2001: 15). This national security culture was “a complex space where various representations and representatives of the national security state compete to draw the boundaries and dominate the murkier margins of international relations” (Der Derian, 1992: 41). The same Cold War security culture has been maintained by political practice (on the part of realist analysts and political leaders) through realist discourses in the post-9/11 era and once again reproduces the idea of a national security state. This (implicit) state identification is neither accidental nor inconsequential. From a poststructuralist vantage point, the identification process of the state and the nation is always a negative process for it is achieved by exclusion, violence, and marginalization. Thus, a deconstruction of practices that constitute and consolidate state identity is necessary: the writing of the state must be revealed through the analysis of the discourses that constitute it. The state and the discourses that (re)constitute it thus frame its very identity and impose a fictitious “national unity” on society; it is from this fictive and arbitrary creation of the modernist dichotomous discourses of inside/outside that the discourses (re)constructing the state emerge. It is in the creation of a Self and an Other in which the state uses it monopolistic power of legitimate violence – a power socially constructed, following Max Weber’s work on the ethic of responsibility – to construct a threatening Other differentiated from the “unified” Self, the national society (the nation).16 It is through this very practice of normative statecraft,17 which produces threatening Others, that the international sphere comes into being. David Campbell adds that it is by constantly articulating danger through foreign policy that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18.

===Schmitt=== 
====1NC==== 
The affirmative’s concept of the political reproduces the most naïve form of liberalism—sovling for the violence of its enemies real and imagined only drives the fundamental antagonisms that are the root cause of that violence underground. War as the horizon of international relations is inevitable, and only by accepting that difference is the foundation of the political produces a politics that can limit the effects of warfare
Rasch, Professor and Chair of Germanic Studies @ Indiana University, in ‘5

[William Henry. “Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle.” Can be found in the South Atlantic Quarterly, Spring 2005. 255-61]

Schmitt, then, starts from the premise of imperfection and acknowledges an ontological priority of violence. If, he reasons, one starts with the rather biblical notions of sin and guilt, not natural innocence, then homogeneity, being contingent, historical, and not the least natural, must be predicated on heterogeneity. That is, citizenship or participation or community must be constructed, not assumed, and can only be local, circumscribed, not global. One recognizes one’s own in the face of the other and knows the comfort of inclusion only as the necessary result of exclusion—though in modern, functionally differentiated society, those inclusions and exclusions may be multiple, contradictory, and not necessarily tied to place. ‘‘An abso- lute human equality,’’ Schmitt writes in his Crisis of Parliamentary Democ- racy, ‘‘would be an equality without the necessary correlate of inequality and as a result conceptually and practically meaningless, an indifferent equality. . . . Substantive inequalities would in no way disappear from the world and the state; they would shift into another sphere, perhaps separated from the political and concentrated in the economic, leaving this area to take on a new, disproportionately decisive importance.’’6 This, Schmitt’s, is not a popular sentiment, even if it echoes somewhat the Marxist distinc- tion between a political and a social democracy, between a formal and sub- stantial equality. But if one acknowledges that at least within modernity all inclusion requires exclusion, that inclusions and exclusions in addition to being unavoidable are also contingent and malleable, then rather than react with dismay, one might see in this ‘‘logical fact,’’ if fact it is, both the condition for the possibility of dissent and the condition for the possibility of recognizing in the one who resists and disagrees a fellow human being and thus legitimate political opponent, not a Lyon or Tyger or other Savge Beast. For it is not that exclusions are miraculously made absent once distinc- tions are not formally drawn. On the contrary, unacknowledged distinctions, and those who are distinguished by them, simply go underground, become invisible, and grow stronger, more absolute, in their violent and explosive force. When the retrograde and condemned distinction between the ‘‘Greek’’ and the ‘‘barbarian’’ becomes a simple, sanguine affirmation of humanity, this ideal affirmation actually turns out to be nothing other than a distinction drawn between all those who, by their right behavior, show themselves to be truly ‘‘human’’ and those who, alas, by their per- verse dissent, have revealed themselves to be evildoers, to be ‘‘inhuman.’’ Deliberate, visible, ‘‘external’’ distinctions that demarcate a space in which a ‘‘we’’ can recognize its difference from a ‘‘they,’’ preferably without marking that difference in a necessarily asymmetrical manner, are to be preferred, in Schmitt’s world, to the invisible and unacknowledged distinctions that mark those who are exemplary humans from those who, by their political dissent, show themselves to be gratuitously perverse. For reasons, then, of making difference visible, Schmitt favors lines drawn in the sand, or, in the ‘‘mythical language’’ used in The Nomos of the Earth, ‘‘firm lines’’ in the ‘‘soil,’’ ‘‘whereby definite divisions become apparent,’’ and, above them, n the ‘‘solid ground of the earth,’’ ‘‘fences, enclosures, boundaries, walls, houses, and other constructs,’’ so that the ‘‘orders and orientations of human social life become apparent’’ and the ‘‘forms of power and domination become visible.’’7 In Nomos, Schmitt describes the now much maligned and seldom mourned European nation-state system as ‘‘the highest form of order within the scope of human power’’ (187). Historically, the territorial state devel- oped as a response to the religious civil wars of the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. Once thought of as a unity called Christendom, Europe became fractured by the events of the Reformation and Counter- Reformation. The old asymmetrical distinction between believers and non- believers that governed the relationship not only between Christians and non-Christians, but also between Christian orthodoxy and heresy, now threatened to regulate the distinction between Catholics and Protestants. Yet, miraculously (one might be tempted to say), with the conclusion of religious warfare in 1648, a symmetrical relationship among the European nation-states prevailed—in theory, if not always in fact. It is this symmetri- cal ordering of internally differentiated Europe that Schmitt highlights. In effect—and Hobbes had already described it in these terms—the war of all individuals against all individuals in the state of nature, which perennially threatens to resurface within the state as civil discord, is elevated into a war of all states against all states in a second-order state of nature. In theory and practice, then, the individual is protected from arbitrary and irrational, because incalculable, violence by states acting as moral persons living in an unregulated but serendipitously achieved balance of power. We might best update Schmitt’s description of this order as an ideally anarchic, self-regulating coexistence of antagonistic powers, an emergent, horizontal self-organization of sovereign systems with no one system serving as sovereign over all the others—a plurality of states that refused to coalesce into one single state but rather achieved relative security without relinquishing autonomy. The ‘‘medium’’ of this self-organization was violence (war); yet, by virtue of mechanisms of reciprocity, by virtue, that is, of a similarly emergent self-regulation of violence called international law (the jus publicum Europaeum of which Schmitt sings his praises), the conduct of warfare among European states was restrained and controlled. Thus, the nation-state way of organizing early modern Europe served as the katechon, the political as restrainer, establishing relative stability and peace to stave off chaos and civil war. How is this possible? Despite its internal self-differentiation, Europe still saw itself as a unity because of a second major distinction, the one be- tween Europe and the New World, where New World denotes the entire non-European world, but especially the newly ‘‘discovered’’ regions of the globe following Columbus’s three voyages. This distinction was asymmet- rical; on the one side we find Christianity and culture, on the other only pagan ‘‘barbarians.’’ How did Europeans mark this difference between a self-differentiated ‘‘us’’ and a homogenous ‘‘them’’? Through violence. Only now, violence was regulated hierarchically by the traditional ‘‘just war’’ doc- trine. Schmitt clearly marks the difference between symmetrical and asym- metrical modes of warfare (thus the difference between warfare ‘‘this side’’ versus the ‘‘other side’’ of so-called amity lines that separated Old Europe from the New World) as the difference between wars fought against ‘‘just enemies’’ and those fought for a ‘‘just cause.’’ The former recognize a com- monality among combatants that allows for reciprocity; the latter does not. Wars fought against enemies one respects as occupiers of the same cultural ‘‘space,’’ no matter how subdivided, allows for the desirable constraints on the conduct of war. Wars fought against infidels, pagans, and barbarians, whether these barbarians deny the one God, the laws of nature, the truth of reason, or the higher morality of liberalism, are wars fought against those who are not to be respected or accorded the rights granted equals.8 To be in possession of truth, no matter how much that truth is debated internally, allows one to stand over against the other as a conglomerated unity. This self-differentiated unity can assume the restrained and restraining order of civilization because it has inoculated itself against outbreaks of ‘‘natu- ral’’ and lawless violence by displacing them in the New World. America, as Hobbes and others imagined it, was the preeminent site of the feared state of nature; thus Europe was spared any recurrence of the civil wars that had previously ravaged it. What Schmitt describes as an enviable achievement—that is, the bal- anced order of restrained violence within Europe—presupposed the con- signment of unrestrained violence to the rest of the world. That is, desired restraint was founded upon sanctioned lack of restraint. If Schmitt, by con- centrating on the development of European international law after the reli- gious civil wars, highlights an admirable local result of a disagreeable global process, this can be attributed to his explicit Eurocentrism. But even non- Eurocentrics may be dismayed by the twentieth-century reintroduction of unrestricted violence within Europe itself. The epitome of this return of the epressed may be the midcentury death camp, as Giorgio Agamben main- tains,9 but its initial breakthrough is the Great War of the century’s sec- ond decade. For how else can one explain that a traditional European power struggle that started in 1914 as a war fought for state interest should end in 1918–19 as a war fought by ‘‘civilization’’ against its ‘‘barbarian’’ other? And how else can one explain that we have been so eager to replicate this dis- tinction in every war we have fought ever since? If, in other words, we are rightly horrified by the distinction between civilized and uncivilized when it is used to describe the relationship of Old Europe and its colonial subjects, and if we are rightly horrified by the distinction between the human and the in- or subhuman when it is used to discriminate against blacks, Jews, Gyp- sies, and other so-called undesirables, then why do we persist today in using these very distinctions when combating our latest enemies? Is it merely ironic or in fact profoundly symptomatic that those who most vehemently affirm universal symmetry (equality, democracy) are also more often than not the ones who opt for the most asymmetrical means of locating enemies and conducting war—that is, just wars fought for a just cause? But how are we to respond? For those who say there is no war and who yet find themselves witnessing daily bloodshed, Adornoian asceticism (refrain- ing from participating in the nihilism of the political) or Benjaminian weak, quasi, or other messianism (waiting for the next incarnation of the his- torical subject [the multitudes?] or the next proletarian general strike [the event?]) would seem to be the answer. To this, however, those who say there is a war can respond only with bewilderment. Waiting for a ‘‘com- pletely new politics’’10 and completely new political agents, waiting for the event and the right moment to name it, or waiting for universal ontological redemption feels much like waiting for the Second Coming, or, more accu- rately, for Godot. And have we not all grown weary of waiting? The war we call ‘‘the political,’’ whether nihilist or not, happily goes on while we watch Rome burn. As Schmitt wrote of the relationship of early Christianity to the Roman Empire, ‘‘The belief that a restrainer holds back the end of the world provides the only bridge between the notion of an eschatological paralysis of all human events and a tremendous historical monolith like that of the Christian empire of the Germanic kings’’ (60). One does not need to believe in the virtues of that particular ‘‘historical monolith’’ to understand the dan- gers of eschatological paralysis. But as Max Weber observed firsthand, ascetic quietude leads so often, so quickly, and so effortlessly to the chiliastic violence that knows no bounds;11 and as we have lately observed anew, the millennial messianism of imperial rulers and nomadic partisans alike dominates the contemporary political landscape. The true goal of those who say there is no war is to eliminate the war that actually exists by eliminating those Lyons and Tygers and other Savage Beasts who say there is a war. This war is the truly savage war. It is the war we witness today. No amount of democratization, pacification, or Americanization will mollify its effects, because democratization, pacification, and Americanization are among the weapons used by those who say there is no war to wage their war to end all war.What is to be done? If you are one who says there is a war, and if you say it not because you glory in it but because you fear it and hate it, then your goal is to limit it and its effects, not eliminate it, which merely intensifies it, but limit it by drawing clear lines within which it can be fought, and clear lines between those who fight it and those who don’t, lines between friends, enemies, and neutrals, lines between combatants and noncombat- ants. There are, of course, legitimate doubts about whether those ideal lines could ever be drawn again; nevertheless, the question that we should ask is not how can we establish perpetual peace, but rather a more modest one: Can symmetrical relationships be guaranteed only by asymmetrical ones? According to Schmitt, historically this has been the case. ‘‘The tradi- tional Eurocentric order of international law is foundering today, as is the old nomos of the earth. This order arose from a legendary and unforeseen discovery of a new world, from an unrepeatable historical event. Only in fantastic parallels can one imagine a modern recurrence, such as men on their way to the moon discovering a new and hitherto unknown planet that could be exploited freely and utilized effectively to relieve their struggles on earth’’ (39). We have since gone to the moon and have found nothing on the way there to exploit. We may soon go to Mars, if current leaders have their way, but the likelihood of finding exploitable populations seems equally slim. Salvation through spatially delimited asymmetry, even were it to be desired, is just not on the horizon. And salvation through globalization, that is, through global unity and equality, is equally impossible, because today’s asymmetry is not so much a localization of the exception as it is an invisible generation of the exception from within that formal ideal of unity, a generation of the exception as the difference between the human and the inhuman outlaw, the ‘‘Savage Beast, with whom Men can have no Society nor Security.’’ We are, therefore, thrown back upon ourselves, which is to say, upon those artificial ‘‘moral persons’’ who act as our collective political identities. They used to be called states. What they will be called in the future remains to be seen. But, if we think to establish a differentiated unity of discrete political entities that once represented for Schmitt ‘‘the highest form of order within the scope of human power,’’ then we must symmetrically manage the necessary pairing of inclusion and exclusion without denying the ‘‘forms of power and domination’’ that inescapably accompany human ordering. We must think the possibility of roughly equivalent power relations rather than fantasize the elimination of power from the political universe. This, conceivably, was also Schmitt’s solution. Whether his idea of the plurality of Großräume could ever be carried out under contemporary cir- cumstances is, to be sure, more than a little doubtful, given that the United States enjoys a monopoly on guns, goods, and the Good, in the form of a supremely effective ideology of universal ‘‘democratization.’’ Still, we would do well to devise vocabularies that do not just emphatically repeat philo- sophically more sophisticated versions of the liberal ideology of painless, effortless, universal equality. The space of the political will never be created by a bloodless, Benjaminian divine violence. Nor is it to be confused with the space of the simply human. To dream the dreams of universal inclusion may satisfy an irrepressible human desire, but it may also always produce recurring, asphyxiating political nightmares of absolute exclusion.

And, the elimination of the friend/enemy dichotomy reproduces the worst forms of biopolitical violence—genocide and total war are the outcome of a politics where former enemies become inhuman others
Thorup, lecturer and at the Institute of Philosophy and History of Ideas at the univ of Aarhus in Denmark, in ‘6

[Mikkel, In Defense of Enmity – Critiques of Liberal Globalism, Ph.D. Dissertation]

Another register in which the lines are blurred or rather non-existent is in the biopolitical enmity as theorized by Michel Foucault (2003; Kelly 2004) and Giorgio Agamben (1998). Here, we most clearly see the blurring of lines. In the biopolitical enmity, the enemy is named in biological and psychological terms and the enemy is found within the social body. The line between an inside, the friends, and an outside, the enemies, is no longer meaningful. The enemy lives among us and the biopolitical state takes it upon itself to single out those, who threaten the health of the community. This concept of enmity is also highly discriminatory. It establishes a hierarchy of worthy life and starts to talk about 'life unworthy of being lived' and its annihilation (Agamben 1998: 136), most dramatically and tragically executed in the Nazi concentration and euthanasia program but for both Foucault and Agamben a constitutive element in modernity. The goal of a biopolitical war is not to reach a modus vivendi with the enemy but to eliminate him. This is a total war: ... the enemies who have to be done away with are not adversaries in the political sense of the term; they are threats, either external or internal, to the population and for the population. In the biopower system, in other words, killing or the imperative to kill is acceptable only if it results not in a victory over political adversaries, but in the elimination of the biological threat to and the improvement of the species or race. (Foucault 2003: 256, my italics) What the biopolitical enmity makes clear is the normalization of the exceptional, as the biopolitical state declares war on parts of its own population, not only in form of extermination but also quarantining of the sick, surveillance, exclusions, imprisonments, institutionalization of the abnormal etc. The heroic battles are replaced by micro-technologies that maximize the mortality of some groups and minimize it for others. Instead of individual killings, we get what Ernst Fraenkel with a very precise expression called 'civil death' (1969: 95) or what Foucualt called 'statistical death'. The sovereign does not manifest himself in splendid displays of power, public executions, but in the actions of the secret police, disappearances and extermination camps (Foucault 2003: chap. 11). The biopolitical state emerges, where racism and statism meets. It is no longer: 'We have to defend ourselves against society', but 'We have to defend society against all the biological threats posed by the other, the subrace, the counterrace that we are, despite ourselves, bringing into existence' ... we see the appearance of a State racism: a racism that society will direct against itself, against its own elements and its own products. This is the internal racism of permanent purification (Foucault 2003: 61-2)
Enemies come first. Voting negative is the endorcement of a decisionist ethic of enmity that crafts our subjectivities in a way that accepts the inevitability of insecurity and open the space for the pluralization of political differences.
Prozorov, Professor of International Relations, Petrozavodsk State University, Russia, in ‘7

[Sergei, “The ethos of insecure life: Reading Carl Schmitt’s existential decisionism as a Foucauldian ethics”, in The International Political thought of Carl Schmitt, eds. Louiza Osysseos and Fabio Petito, pg. 233-8]

The affirmation of the self that this telos of sovereignty points to is markedly ‘non-positive’ (Foucault 1977b: 36): a Schmittian subject affirms itself through the art of making enemies, yet simultaneously destroys every possibility of making this subjectivity a transcendental ground by retaining proximity to the void that conditions his being. It affirms life in the absence of grounds, that is, it engages the void in its ethical practice rather than orient ethical practice to the erasure of the void in the authoritative postulation of the locus of truth at its bottom. It is this ‘non-positive affirmation’ that constitutes what we propose to call the ethos of insecure life. This ethos is indeed marked by a lightness, eman- ating from the dissolution of the epistemic and moral certitude of the collective regimes of truth which constitute us in our positive identity. Yet, the cost of this ethical practice of liberty is an ineradicable sense of insecurity that arises, by definition, from an antagonistic relationship to the world that forms the very substance of the decisionist ethics. While various strands of what David Camp- bell (1993: 4) refers to as ‘politics of principle’ proceed from the problematisa- tion of this insecurity and attempt its effacement through postulating abstract universalist ideals of humanism and enacting them in peculiarly intense prac- tices of violence, the ethos of insecure life precludes the possibility of familiar postures of missionaries and crusaders in its affirmation of ‘unprincipled’ existence. Paradoxically at first glance, this antagonistic ethos that is ‘nihilistic’, ‘decisionist’ and ‘irrational’ and that emphasises the constitutive intensity of a ‘whatever decision’ over a substantive conception of the good, appears to pre- scribe practices marked by a stronger sense of humility and responsibility than the moralist ethos of politics of principle, of whose many guises the current drive of global ‘anti-terrorism’ is the latest manifestation. Self-deprived of epis- temic and moral certitude, a Schmittian subject reserves the capacity of judge- ment and decision, but, placing itself in these very acts in proximity to the void of undecidability, forfeits the capacity to ground and universalise its judgement. Both speaking for others and telling others where truth or morality resides becomes a manifest indignity for a Schmittian subject. Conclusion This ethical disposition is evidently easy to dismiss as empirically impossible, romantically naive or politically dangerous. Any thoroughgoing decisionism is arguably constituted by such a mix of naivety and dangerousness that quixotically affirms, against all odds, the possibility of the impossible. However, we are in agreement with Slavoj Zˇizˇek that it is precisely the dimension of impossibility, of the danger of assuming a position in proximity to the void, that is the con- dition of the authentic political act as, in Lacanian terms, an encounter with the Real: ‘[t]he point is not that the Real is impossible but rather that the impossible is Real. A trauma, or an act, is simply the point when the Real happens, and this is difficult to accept’ (Zˇizˇek 2004b: 70). The ethos of insecure life that we have elaborated connects with Zˇizˇek’s ‘ethics of the Real’, which is squarely Schmittian in its decisionist emphasis on the act as a radical rupture in the existing space of possibilities that takes the infinite risk of willing the impossible. Such an ethics of subjectivity clearly runs against today’s mainstream narratives of globalisation, in which the very subject, who is consecrated as the foundational figure of the ‘post-statist’ cosmopolitan order, simultaneously becomes epiphenomenal to global processes, flows and forces which are granted the status of objective reality, to which one must adapt one’s existence. In this regime of objective necessity, which arguably marks the final stage of the proverbial ‘decentring of the subject’, the success of existential decisionism is only think- able in terms of a miracle, which of course is the theological correlate of a Schmittian decision. And yet, perhaps a certain belief in miracles is precisely what is lacking in today’s critical thought: [t]he truly traumatic thing is that miracles – not in the religious sense but in the sense of free acts – do happen, but it’s very difficult to come to terms with them. [The] Real is not this kind of thing-in-itself that we cannot approach; the Real is, rather, freedom as a radical cut in the texture of reality. (ibid.: 166) Perhaps, then, the contemporary importance of Schmitt lies precisely in this affirmation of freedom as the infinite risk of decision that breaks out of the exist- ing coordinates of the possible, with nothing but the void to guide one’s orienta- tion to the future. Our argument has sought to demonstrate the possibility of reading Schmitt as an ethical thinker who sought to affirm life in the disenchanting condition of nihilism, rather than as a war-mongering ‘conservative revolutionary’, relying on the combination of violence and traditionalist mythology to challenge the bourgeois routinisation of life. Such a deconstructed Schmittian approach is arguably a productive intervention into the poststructuralist dis- course, an approach that offers an alternative to the influential Derridean resolu- tion of the question of a ‘postmodern ethics’, which also operates with the central concepts of decision and alterity. In contrast to the deconstructionist insistence on undecidability and hence the impossibility of every decision, which leads it into an ethical impasse, our approach connects with Zizek’s recent reaffirmation of decisionism in conceiving of undecidability as the instance of radical negativity that is simultaneously the condition of possibility of every political act (see Zˇizˇek 2004a; cf. Prozorov 2005). The reading of Schmitt espoused in this chapter, has admittedly privileged the disturbing and destabilising force of Schmitt’s existential decisionism rather than his well-known personal preference for the stability of any order, once it is formed in an act of exception. The possibly un-Schmittian effects that Schmitt’s conception of the political may induce in its ethical reconstruction testify to the demonic force of the borderline concepts of decision, exception and sovereignty that turn against their creator, for ever to haunt any valorisation of security and stability. Gilles Deleuze once wrote that his practice of philosophical reading consisted in ‘taking an author from behind and giving him a child that would be his own offspring, yet monstrous’ (Deleuze cited in Zˇizˇek 2004a: 46). In the case of Schmitt, for all the ‘groans and protests’, it is arguably his own mischievous offspring of ontological extremism that takes incestuous frivolities with the father of political realism.

====2NC Heg link==== 
Hegemony is cast as what is good and just for humanity. This is de-politicized conquest and exceptionalism
Rasch, Prof and Chair of Germanic Studies, Indiana University & Ph.D. University of Washington/Seattle, in ‘4

[William Henry. “SOVEREIGNTY AND ITS DISCONTENTS.” Birckbeck Law Press. Pg. 132-3]

The only power to emerge from the 20th century’s first world war fresh and at the top of its game was the United States. Although it took another 70 years to subdue all its rivals fully, it was already clear then that this, the 20th, was to be the American century, perhaps the first of many such centuries. Not only was the US a new power, but there was also something distinctly new about its power. As Schmitt recognized in 1932 (Schmitt, 1988b, pp 184–203), America’s legal mode of economic expansion and control of Europe – and by extension or ambition, the rest of the globe – was qualitatively different from previous forms of imperialism. Whereas, for example, Spain in the 16th century and Great Britain in the 19th justified their imperial conquests by asserting religious and/or cultural superiority, America simply denied that its conquests were conquests. By being predominantly economic – and using, as Schmitt says, the creditor/debtor distinction rather than the more traditional Christian/non- Christian or civilized/uncivilized ones (Schmitt, 1988b, p 186) – America’s expropriations were deemed to be peaceful and apolitical. Furthermore, they were legal; or rather they presented themselves as the promotion and extension of universally binding legality per se. Because law ruled the United States, the rule of the United States was first and foremost the rule of law. For Schmitt, this widely accepted self-representation was neither merely ‘ideological’ nor simply propagandistic. It was in truth an intellectual achievement, deserving respect, precisely because it was so difficult to oppose. As the American geo-strategist Zbigniew Brzezinski has more recently concluded: ‘The American emphasis on political democracy and economic development ... combines to convey a simple ideological message that appeals to many: the quest for individual success enhances freedom while generating wealth. The resulting blend of idealism and egoism is a potent combination. Individual self-fulfillment is said to be a God-given right that at the same time can benefit others by setting an example and by generating wealth.’ He goes on to say: ‘As the imitation of American ways gradually pervades the world, it creates a more congenial setting for the exercise of the indirect and seemingly consensual American hegemony. And as in the case of the domestic American system, that hegemony involves a complex structure of interlocking institutions and procedures, designed to generate consensus and obscure asymmetries in power and influence’ (Brzezinski, 1997, pp 26–27). To sum up, Brzezinski notes that ‘the very multinational and exceptional character of American society has made it easier for America to universalize its hegemony without letting it appear to be a strictly national one’ (Brzezinski, 1997, p 210). It seems, then, that to oppose American global hegemony is to oppose the universally good and common interests of all of humanity. This – the equation of particular economic and political interests with universally binding moral norms – this is the intellectual achievement Schmitt could not help but admire, even as he continuously embarked upon his disastrous attempts at fighting his elusive because non- localizable enemy, which proved to be mere shadowboxing in the end.

====2NC AT Perm==== 
And, our ethics are explicitely opposed to the idea of concensus and discussion. The K cannot be resolved with the Aff – get over it.
Prozorov, Professor of International Relations, Petrozavodsk State University, Russia, in ‘7

[Sergei, “The ethos of insecure life: Reading Carl Schmitt’s existential decisionism as a Foucauldian ethics”, in The International Political thought of Carl Schmitt, eds. Louiza Osysseos and Fabio Petito, pg. 233-8]

Thus, the ethos of discussion appears wholly irrelevant to a Schmittian ethics since it replaces the ontogenetic situation of self-creation with an ontological reflection on the questions of truth or morality, presupposing either a teleology of rational consensus or a neutralised conception of truth as an emergent equilibrium (see Schmitt 1985b: 35–51). Schmitt’s criticism of the Enlightenment ideal of the ‘discussing public’, coupled with a Foucauldian reintroduction of the political into the domain of the epistemic, entails an obvious consequence: nothing is to be gained in discussion. If all that precedes the difference between the self and the other is the brute ‘being-there’ of the indifferent void, then there is little point in attempting to efface this difference to arrive at a more funda- mental identity of the Same. If we are verified as subjects not through identification but through dissociation, then any discussion that seeks to resolve differences does little more than subsume one’s existential singularity under its own teleological or procedural normativity. If truth is a thing of this world, then any consensus that emerges in discussion will be always already permeated by power relations; that is, it will always emerge as a result of an unfounded decision, however much the event of the latter is disavowed: [e]very consensus, even a ‘free’ one, is somehow motivated and brought into existence. Power produces consensus and often, to be sure, a rational and ethically justified consensus. Conversely, consensus produces power, and then often an irrational and – despite the consensus – an ethically repugnant one. (Schmitt 1999: 202) Aware of the eradication of difference inherent in the drive for consensus, a decisionist ethics values difference without a liberal ‘safety mechanism’ of pos- tulating the underlying identity of ‘humanity’, which in Schmitt’s astute obser- vation merely serves to deny the enemy the existential status of being human, reducing him to a ‘total non-value’ (Freund 1995: 19), and has ‘incalculable effects [since] a war can thereby be driven to the most extreme inhumanity’ (Schmitt 1976: 54). Just as Schmitt’s political realism on the level of interstate relations affirms pluralism in the domain of the international, while privileging a minimal degree of domestic homogeneity, a decisionist ethics emphasises the maintenance of difference in intersubjective relations while simultaneously privileging a resolution of interdependence with the positive other via a clear act of self-distinction and self-delimitation. In this manner, a decisionist ethics posits a telos of sovereign subjectivity. Telos: sovereign to oneself The telos of sovereignty is the final component of Schmittian ethics. The ulti- mate goal of the art of making enemies that nurtures the ethical substance of real life by permanently returning to the originary void of the decision is ultimately to emerge from a state of unbearable gravity of epistemico-moral subjection into the condition of lightness, in which one assumes mastery over one’s own exist- ence. This mastery marks a synthesis of Schmitt’s notion of sovereignty as the decision on exception and Foucault’s notion of transgression as an experience of the limit. As we have argued elsewhere, in Schmitt’s approach sovereignty is irreducible to the affirmation of supreme authority within a positive order, but is rather exhausted by a negative operation of transgression, the capacity to suspend the normal functioning of order (see Prozorov 2005). The sovereign is simultaneously inside positive order as the source of its foundational principles and outside it as something that ‘can not be subsumed’ under these principles, a supplement that is always unfathomable, monstrous and obscene in relation to every positivity. We may then redefine the sovereign as the transgressor in rela- tion to the order of his own creation and the transgressor as sovereign over his own existence. Any claim to the self-immanence of order is destabilised and dis- rupted by these two figures located on its extremity, be it the sovereign subject of its institution or the resisting subject instituted by it. Rather than posit a Fou- cauldian transgression as a practice of resistance to sovereign power, valorised by Schmitt, we rather suggest that both authors deploy an ethics of sovereign transgression that seeks mastery over one’s existence in the face of the self- immanentist stratagems of objectification and subjectification.10 In this manner, the proverbial ‘sovereign subject’ makes a comeback in the critical discourse that was originally preoccupied with his ‘decentring’. Cast out from the centre of political ontology by the combined efforts of Marxism, psychoanalysis and structuralism, the sovereign subject might eventually reassert itself at its limits as a constitutive borderline concept (cf. Zˇizˇek 1999b).


==Disads== 
===Coercion=== 
Your involuntary theft of property for exploration is immoral and wrong.

Pisaturo 4 (Ronald Pisaturo, writer for Ayn Rand institute, “Mars: Who Should Own It” http://www.ronpisaturo.com/mars/marswsoi.html)
A capitalist, private-property policy is not an alternative moral policy for the exploration of Mars; it is the only moral policy. If no private organization wants to explore Mars in the absence of government financing, then-unless there is a valid military need-Mars should not be explored. The proper, moral purpose of government is to protect the rights of its citizens-the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness-and the right required in order for these other rights to be secured: the right to property. It is not the proper purpose of government to launch its own ventures in religion nor (on the same principle that requires the separation of church and state) to engage in business, art, charity-or science. It is doubly wrong when the government in fact violates the property rights of its citizens by spending the money earned by those hard-working citizens on such ventures.
The impact is mass genocides

Browne 95, former Libertarian presidential candidat

(Harry, executive director of public policy at American Liberty Foundation, editor of Liberty Magazine, financial advisor and economist, Why Government Doesn’t Work, pg 66-67)
The reformers of the Cambodian revolution claimed to be building a better world. They forced people into reeducation programs to make them better citizens. Then they used force to regulate every aspect of commercial life. Then they forced office workers and intellectuals to give up their jobs and harvest rice, to round out their education. When people resisted having their lives turned upside down, the reformers had to use more and more force. By the time they were done, they had killed a third of the country’s population, destroyed the lives of almost everyone still alive, and devastated a nation. It all began with using force for the best of intentions—to create a better world. The Soviet leaders used coercion to provide economic security and to build a “New Man”—a human being who would put his fellow man ahead of himself. At least 10 million people died to help build the New Man and the Workers’ Paradise. But human nature never changed—and the workers’ lives were always Hell, not Paradise. In the 1930s many Germans gladly traded civil liberties for the economic revival and national pride Adolf Hitler promised them. But like every other grand dream to improve society by force, it ended in a nightmare of devastation and death. Professor R.J. Rummel has calculated that 119 million people have been killed by their own governments in this century. Were these people criminals? No, they were people who simply didn’t fit into the New Order—people who preferred their own dreams to those of the reformers. Every time you allow government to use force to make society better, you move another step closer to the nightmares of Cambodia, the Soviet Union, and Nazi Germany. We’ve already moved so far that our own government can perform with impunity the outrages described in the preceding chapters. These examples aren’t cases of government gone wrong; they are examples of government—period. They are what governments do—just as chasing cats is what dogs do. They are the natural consequence of letting government use force to bring about a drug-free nation, to tax someone else to better your life, to guarantee your economic security, to assure that no one can mistreat you or hurt your feelings, and to cover up the damage of all the failed government programs that came before.

===Space mil=== 
No space weaponization now

Denmark 2010 - Fellow with the Center for a New American Security [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]
Space’s militarization — its use as a medium to support military operations — has existed for more than four decades. Since the height of the Cold War, satellites have monitored nuclear tests and other military activities and facilitated global communications, mapping, and other activities with both military and scientific purposes. Yet space has yet to be weaponized, in that it is not yet a theater for warfare or for the placement of arms, and it remains a global commons open to any actor with the means to access it. 36 To a large degree, this openness can be credited to a robust set of international agreements that effectively codify space as a global commons. When space first became accessible to humanity in the 1950s, the United States proposed an agreement establishing orbits as common spaces beyond traditional conceptions of sovereignty. The Soviet Union initially disagreed, arguing that its sovereign claim over its territorial air space extended to orbit and beyond. Once Moscow saw the benefit of sending satellites into orbit to spy on the West, its conceptions of its sovereign interests changed, and the USSR agreed to establish space as, in effect, a global commons. Although several arms-control agreements helped to solidify space as a commons, the most comprehensive existing international agreement on the use of space is the 1967 Outer Space Treaty. It defines space as an area beyond claims of state sovereignty, but it has a limited focus on military matters — beyond banning weapons of mass destruction in orbit or on any celestial body, and prohibiting the use of celestial bodies for military bases or the testing of weapons. U.S. policy has consistently embraced space as a global commons “by all nations for peaceful purposes and for the benefit of all humanity.” 37 Yet the United States has also defended space as a legitimate medium for defense and intelligence activities. The 2006 National Space Policy reinforced an American commitment to the “exploration and use of outer space by all nations for peaceful purposes, and for the benefit of all humanity,” rejected claims of national sovereignty, and reaffirmed the “rights of passage through and operations in space without interference.” On the issue of military objectives, it was quite clear, asserting: The United States considers space capabilities — including the ground and space segments and supporting links — vital to its national interests. Consistent with this policy, the United States will: preserve its rights, capabilities, and freedom of action in space; dissuade or deter others from either impeding those rights or developing the capabilities intended to do so; take those actions necessary to protect its space capabilities; respond to interference; and deny, if necessary, adversaries the use of space capabilities hostile to U.S. national interests. 38
Insert Link

This means you violate the OST

Presscore 10 (“US launches a first strike military spacecraft - the X-37B,” 4/28/10, PressCore, http://presscore.ca/nbg/index.php?entry=entry100428-214754 DA: 6/22/11)
On the 19th of that month the General Assembly approved by acclamation a resolution commending the Treaty. It was opened for signature at Washington, London, and Moscow on January 27, 1967. On April 25 the Senate gave unanimous consent to its ratification, and the Treaty entered into force on October 10, 1967. The substance of the arms control provisions is in Article IV. This article restricts activities in two ways: First , it contains an undertaking not to place in orbit around the Earth, install on the moon or any other celestial body, or otherwise station in outer space, nuclear or any other weapons of mass destruction. Second , it limits the use of the moon and other celestial bodies exclusively to peaceful purposes and expressly prohibits their use for establishing military bases, installation, or fortifications; testing weapons of any kind; or conducting military maneuvers.
U.S. violation of the OST leads to Treaty collpase

Hickman and Dolman 2 (John Hickman is an associate professor in the Department of Government and International Studies at Berry College in Mt. Berry, Georgia. He has written many papers dealing with space policy and Everett Dolman, Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 2002 (“Resurrecting the Space Age: A State–Centered Commentary on the Outer Space Regime,” Comparative Strategy: Volume 21, Number 1 (2002), Page 20, Available Online to subscribing institutions at http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/014959302317350855)
Thus a state party need merely announce its intention to withdraw and then wait one year. Withdrawal of a single state party to the treaty, however, would not necessarily terminate the treaty between the other state parties. Yet, the decision of an important state not to be bound by a regime–creating treaty obviously endangers the entire treaty. The decision of the United States or China to withdraw from the OST would have far greater implications for the survival of the international space regime than the same decision by Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, or Papua New Guinea—the equality of states under international law remains nothing more than a useful fiction. For the OST to remain good international law, it must be accepted as such by the major space faring states of the 21st Century: the United States, Russia, the European Union, Japan, and China. One defection from the regime by a member of this group would no doubt lead to its effective collapse, as the remaining space faring states are unlikely to use the kind of coercion necessary to enforce the regime. A more likely response to such a defection is a scramble to make similar claims to sovereignty, based on historical precedent and effective occupation. Similar rushes to stake claims for territory sovereignty in other celestial bodies might follow.
OST is the last defense against space weaponization

Quinn 08 (J.D./M.B.A. Candidate 2010, University of Minnesota Law School and Carlson School of Management, Summer, LexisNexis Acedemic, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,” http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?)
The possibility of space becoming another forum for warfare has long been a fear of the international community. Although many treaties have addressed weapons in space, space actors have been testing the limits of these treaties more and more frequently. The United States has stated that space warfare is inevitable. This possibility is especially troubling because the global economy depends heavily on outer space. National defense, global communications, an ever growing commercial space industry, international flights, and the internet all depend on satellites orbiting in outer space. These satellites make obvious first targets for any space arms race. The Outer Space Treaty is the last defense against weaponization of space, making it one of the most crucial treaties at this time. In light of its importance, the Outer Space Treaty deserves a critical review. Part I of this Note discusses the evolution of the current body of space law, Part II argues that the current body of space law is inadequate, and Part III presents principles necessary in any international instrument on space law that hopes to successfully delay the introduction of weapons to space.

Extinction and turns the case

Mitchell, et al 01 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh

(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)

A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.

===Debris=== 
We are at the tipping point of space debris.

Oremus on 9-2

[Will, “Space: The Final Frontier for Our Junk”, http://slatest.slate.com/posts/2011/09/02/space_junk_report_finds_debris_in_earth_s_orbit_near_tipping_poi.html]

It’s time to worry, says a new report from the National Research Council. The amount of debris floating in orbit around Earth has been growing exponentially and may have already reached a “tipping point.” What kind of tipping point? Well, in 1978 a NASA scientist named Donald Kessler predicted that, as the amount of space debris grows, it could eventually become dense enough to touch off a “collision cascade.” In that scenario, each collision would generate new debris, causing more debris-generating collisions, until low Earth orbit becomes hopelessly clogged and unusable by spacecraft or even satellites. We’re not there yet, but we could be on our way, the Washington Post reports. A pair of recent collisions has doubled the number of fragments since 2007. There are now an estimated 22,000 hunks of debris large enough for NASA to track individually, and there could be hundreds of thousands or millions more bits that we can’t see. From the Post: Active satellites are at risk of damage and “as the amount of debris increases, there will be increases in the cost of operating” satellites, said Brian Weeden, a technical adviser with the Secure World Foundation, which focuses on space sustainability. Manned spacecraft are also in danger. The international space station had a close call in late June, when an unidentified object came within 1,100 feet but caused no damage; astronauts were preemptively evacuated to emergency spacecraft.

And, any increase in launches risks setting off the cascade effect

Michael W. Taylor ‘7. Chief of the Space and International Law Division at Headquarters United States Air Force Space Command at Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Trashing the Solar System One Planet at a Time: Earth's Orbital Debris Problem. Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. Fall, 2007. Accessed via Lexis/Nexis

Estimates of the future levels of risk are even more speculative than estimates of current risk levels, but most show an alarming trend of increasing debris. A January 2006 NASA study estimates the amount of debris ten centimeters and larger in LEO will triple within 200 years, increasing the likelihood of debris collisions by a factor of ten. n126 The greatest concentration of orbital debris will be located in the regions 800-900 kilometers and 1400-1500 kilometers in altitude. n127 The study acknowledges it seriously underestimates the future risk because it assumes no further launches into space. n128 For each of the past five years, launch providers have sent an average of sixty-one rockets into orbit each year. n129 Considering that each of these launches produces multiple pieces of debris in addition to one or more payloads, the future risk in the NASA study is understated. The cascade effect is the greatest fear of those who study the problem of orbital debris. If the cascade effect begins, orbital debris would collide with other space objects, which in turn would create new debris that would cause even more collisions. In this way, orbital debris would become self-generating and could make certain regions of space completely unusable, even without new satellites [*19] being placed in those areas. n130 International efforts aimed at mitigating the creation of new debris have helped, n131 but will not alone solve the problem. That is why many authors are calling for increased research efforts into technologies for remediation-removal of existing debris from space. n132 Unfortunately, remediation measures are currently economically or technologically unfeasible. n133

The impact is accidental war with Russia

Jeffery Lewis ‘4. Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy . Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, Available Online @ <http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf>

This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space weapons might create incentives for America’s opponents to behave in dangerous ways. The previous scenario looked at the systemic risk of accidents that could arise from keeping nuclear weapons on high alert to guard against a space weapons attack. This section focuses on the risk that a single accident in space, such as a piece of space debris striking a Russian early-warning satellite, might be the catalyst for an accidental nuclear war. As we have noted in an earlier section, the United States canceled its own ASAT program in the 1980s over concerns that the deployment of these weapons might be deeply destabiliz- ing. For all the talk about a “new relationship” between the United States and Russia, both sides retain thousands of nuclear forces on alert and conﬁgured to ﬁght a nuclear war. When briefed about the size and status of U.S. nuclear forces, President George W. Bush reportedly asked “What do we need all these weapons for?”43 The answer, as it was during the Cold War, is that the forces remain on alert to conduct a number of possible contingencies, including a nuclear strike against Russia. This fact, of course, is not lost on the Rus- sian leadership, which has been increasing its reliance on nuclear weapons to compensate for the country’s declining military might. In the mid-1990s, Russia dropped its pledge to refrain from the “ﬁrst use” of nuclear weapons and conducted a series of exercises in which Russian nuclear forces prepared to use nuclear weapons to repel a NATO invasion. In October 2003, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov reiter- ated that Moscow might use nuclear weapons “preemptively” in any number of contingencies, including a NATO attack.44 So, it remains business as usual with U.S. and Russian nuclear forces. And business as usual includes the occasional false alarm of a nuclear attack. There have been several of these incidents over the years. In September 1983, as a relatively new Soviet early-warning satellite moved into position to monitor U.S. missile ﬁelds in North Dakota, the sun lined up in just such a way as to fool the Russian satellite into reporting that half a dozen U.S. missiles had been launched at the Soviet Union. Perhaps mindful that a brand new satel- lite might malfunction, the ofﬁcer in charge of the command center that monitored data from the early-warning satellites refused to pass the alert to his superiors. He reportedly explained his caution by saying: “When people start a war, they don’t start it with only ﬁve missiles. You can do little damage with just ﬁve missiles.”45 In January 1995, Norwegian scientists launched a sounding rocket on a trajectory similar to one that a U.S. Trident missile might take if it were launched to blind Russian radars with a high altitude nuclear detonation. The incident was apparently serious enough that, the next day, Russian President Boris Yeltsin stated that he had activated his “nuclear football” – a device that allows the Russian president to communicate with his military advisors and review his options for launching his arsenal. In this case, the Russian early-warning satellites could clearly see that no attack was under way and the crisis passed without incident.46 In both cases, Russian observers were conﬁ-dent that what appeared to be a “small” attack was not a fragmentary picture of a much larger one. In the case of the Norwegian sounding rocket, space-based sensors played a crucial role in assuring the Russian leadership that it was not under attack. The Russian command sys-tem, however, is no longer able to provide such reliable, early warning. The dissolution of the Soviet Union cost Moscow several radar stations in newly independent states, creating “attack cor-ridors” through which Moscow could not see an attack launched by U.S. nuclear submarines.47 Further, Russia’s constellation of early-warn-ing satellites has been allowed to decline – only one or two of the six satellites remain operational, leaving Russia with early warning for only six hours a day. Russia is attempting to reconstitute its constellation of early-warning satellites, with several launches planned in the next few years. But Russia will still have limited warning and will depend heavily on its space-based systems to provide warning of an American attack.48 As the previous section explained, the Penta- gon is contemplating military missions in space that will improve U.S. ability to cripple Russian nuclear forces in a crisis before they can execute an attack on the United States. Anti-satellite weapons, in this scenario, would blind Russian reconnaissance and warning satellites and knock out communications satellites. Such strikes might be the prelude to a full-scale attack, or a limited ef- fort, as attempted in a war game at Schriever Air Force Base, to conduct “early deterrence strikes” to signal U.S. resolve and control escalation.49 By 2010, the United States may, in fact, have an arsenal of ASATs (perhaps even on orbit 24/7) ready to conduct these kinds of missions – to coerce opponents and, if necessary, support preemptive attacks. Moscow would certainly have to worry that these ASATs could be used in conjunction with other space-enabled systems – for example, long-range strike systems that could attack targets in less than 90 minutes – to disable Russia’s nuclear deterrent before the Rus- sian leadership understood what was going on. What would happen if a piece of space debris were to disable a Russian early-warning satel-lite under these conditions? Could the Russian military distinguish between an accident in space and the ﬁrst phase of a U.S. attack? Most Russian early-warning satellites are in elliptical Molniya orbits (a few are in GEO) and thus difﬁcult to attack from the ground or air. At a minimum, Moscow would probably have some tactical warn-ing of such a suspicious launch, but given the sorry state of Russia’s warning, optical imaging and signals intelligence satellites there is reason to ask the question. Further, the advent of U.S. on-orbit ASATs, as now envisioned50 could make both the more difﬁcult orbital plane and any warning systems moot. The unpleasant truth is that the Russians likely would have to make a judgment call. No state has the ability to deﬁnitively deter-mine the cause of the satellite’s failure. Even the United States does not maintain (nor is it likely to have in place by 2010) a sophisticated space surveillance system that would allow it to distinguish between a satellite malfunction, a debris strike or a deliberate attack – and Russian space surveillance capabilities are much more limited by comparison. Even the risk assessments for col-lision with debris are speculative, particularly for the unique orbits in which Russian early-warning satellites operate. During peacetime, it is easy to imagine that the Russians would conclude that the loss of a satellite was either a malfunction or a debris strike. But how conﬁdent could U.S. planners be that the Russians would be so calm if the accident in space occurred in tandem with a second false alarm, or occurred during the middle of a crisis? What might happen if the debris strike oc-curred shortly after a false alarm showing a mis-sile launch? False alarms are appallingly common – according to information obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, the U.S.-Canadian North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) experienced 1,172 “moderately seri-ous” false alarms between 1977 and 1983 – an average of almost three false alarms per week. Comparable information is not available about the Russian system, but there is no reason to believe that it is any more reliable.51 Assessing the likelihood of these sorts of co- incidences is difﬁcult because Russia has never provided data about the frequency or duration of false alarms; nor indicated how seriously early- warning data is taken by Russian leaders. More- over, there is no reliable estimate of the debris risk for Russian satellites in highly elliptical orbits.52 The important point, however, is that such a coincidence would only appear suspicious if the United States were in the business of disabling satellites – in other words, there is much less risk if Washington does not develop ASATs. The loss of an early-warning satellite could look rather ominous if it occurred during a pe- riod of major tension in the relationship. While NATO no longer sees Russia as much of a threat, the same cannot be said of the converse. Despite the warm talk, Russian leaders remain wary of NATO expansion, particularly the effect expan- sion may have on the Baltic port of Kaliningrad. Although part of Russia, Kaliningrad is separated from the rest of Russia by Lithuania and Poland. Russia has already complained about its decreas- ing lack of access to the port, particularly the uncooperative attitude of the Lithuanian govern- ment.53 News reports suggest that an edgy Russia may have moved tactical nuclear weapons into the enclave.54 If the Lithuanian government were to close access to Kaliningrad in a ﬁt of pique, this would trigger a major crisis between NATO and Russia. Under these circumstances, the loss of an early-warning satellite would be extremely suspicious. It is any military’s nature during a crisis to interpret events in their worst-case light. For ex- ample, consider the coincidences that occurred in early September 1956, during the extraordinarily tense period in international relations marked by the Suez Crisis and Hungarian uprising.55 On one evening the White House received messages indicating: 1. the Turkish Air Force had gone on alert in response to unidentiﬁed aircraft penetrat- ing its airspace; 2. one hundred Soviet MiG-15s were ﬂying over Syria; 3. a British Canberra bomber had been shot down over Syria, most likely by a MiG; and 4. The Russian ﬂeet was moving through the Dardanelles. Gen. Andrew Goodpaster was reported to have worried that the conﬂuence of events “might trigger off … the NATO operations plan” that called for a nuclear strike on the Soviet Union. Yet, all of these reports were false. The “jets” over Turkey were a ﬂock of swans; the Soviet MiGs over Syria were a smaller, routine escort returning the president from a state visit to Mos- cow; the bomber crashed due to mechanical difﬁculties; and the Soviet ﬂeet was beginning long-scheduled exercises. In an important sense, these were not “coincidences” but rather different manifestations of a common failure – human er- ror resulting from extreme tension of an interna- tional crisis. As one author noted, “The detection and misinterpretation of these events, against the context of world tensions from Hungary and Suez, was the ﬁrst major example of how the size and complexity of worldwide electronic warning systems could, at certain critical times, create momentum of its own.” Perhaps most worrisome, the United States might be blithely unaware of the degree to which the Russians were concerned about its actions and inadvertently escalate a crisis. During the early 1980s, the Soviet Union suffered a major “war scare” during which time its leadership concluded that bilateral relations were rapidly declining. This war scare was driven in part by the rhetoric of the Reagan administration, fortiﬁed by the selective reading of intelligence. During this period, NATO conducted a major command post exercise, Able Archer, that caused some elements of the Soviet military to raise their alert status. American ofﬁcials were stunned to learn, after the fact, that the Kremlin had been acutely nervous about an American ﬁrst strike during this period.56 All of these incidents have a common theme – that conﬁdence is often the difference between war and peace. In times of crisis, false alarms can have a momentum of their own. As in the second scenario in this monograph, the lesson is that commanders rely on the steady ﬂow of reli-able information. When that information ﬂow is disrupted – whether by a deliberate attack or an accident – conﬁdence collapses and the result is panic and escalation. Introducing ASAT weapons into this mix is all the more dangerous, because such weapons target the elements of the command system that keep leaders aware, informed and in control. As a result, the mere presence of such weapons is corrosive to the conﬁdence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.

And, Extinction

Dean Babst ‘2, retired government research scientist and Coordinator of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation's Accidental Nuclear War Studies Program, February ’02, “Preventing an Accidental Armageddon,”

Available online @ <http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2000/02/00_babst_armageddon.htm>

Although international relations have changed drastically since the end of the Cold War, both Russia and the U.S. continue to keep the bulk of their nuclear missiles on high-level alert. The U.S. and Russia remain ready to fire a total of more than 5,000 nuclear weapons at each other within half an hour. These warheads, if used, could destroy humanity including those firing the missiles. A defense that destroys the defender makes no sense. Why then do Russia, the U.S., and other countries spend vast sums each year to maintain such defenses? Since 400 average size strategic nuclear weapons could destroy humanity, most of the 5,000 nuclear weapons that Russia and the U.S. have set for hair-trigger release, present the world with its greatest danger -- an enormous overkill, the potential for an accidental Armageddon.

===Politics - Emory=== 
Payroll Tax cuts will pass

The Washington Post 1/25/2011 (“State of the Union proposals: What might pass?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/state-of-the-union-proposals-what-might-pass/2012/01/25/gIQAQhsVRQ_story_1.html//NDW)

The biggest optimist is Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), who spent most of last year privately criticizing the White House’s engagement with Republicans. Now, he says the year-end fight over whether to extend a payroll tax holiday has shifted the dynamic in Congress toward deal-making. “This is a president who has not given up on governing. . . . Don’t underestimate our chances of success,” he told reporters Wednesday. Schumer’s optimism is based largely on the belief that Republicans will find themselves in political quicksand and latch onto any deal Democrats offer, a proposition that Republicans firmly reject. Here’s a breakdown of some of the proposals that have the best chance of winning approval, some chance of approval and those that will have to wait until next year: Can Pass PAYROLL TAX HOLIDAY: House-Senate negotiations are underway on extending this tax break through the end of the year, and both sides are optimistic that a deal can be reached. However, the entire package — which includes extending unemployment benefits and adjusting Medicare payments so that doctors don’t see a drop in fees — would cost $160 billion and the impasse has been over finding the offsetting cuts or revenue increases to make up for those extensions. Still, Republicans are smarting over their bitter infighting from December’s debate on temporary extensions, and most leaders want to find a quick resolution to the matter.

insert link

Failure to extend the payroll tax cuts causes economic downturn

Reuters, 11 (Patrick Temple West for Reuters, “Payroll tax cut needed to avoid recession: Zandi” on October 6, 2011 from http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/06/us-usa-tax-payroll-idUSTRE7955SU20111006,akaz)

(Reuters) - Failure to extend a payroll tax holiday into 2012 could trigger another recession, noted U.S. economist Mark Zandi said on Thursday, as Democrats called the extension a top priority needing quick action. Expiration at year-end of the tax holiday, emergency unemployment benefits and other stimulus efforts could shave up to 1.7 percentage points from gross domestic product in 2012, said Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics. "The economy is struggling to avoid another recession," Zandi said at a congressional roundtable on tax incentives and the economy. He called the situation "a dramatic reversal from the beginning of the year." Without the tax holiday extension, he said, "We will be back in a recession." Under the tax holiday, the payroll tax -- which funds the Social Security retirement system -- was reduced to 4.2 percent for employees at the beginning of 2011. The rate is due to revert to 6.2 percent at the end of this year. President Barack Obama's jobs package introduced last month would extend and expand the employee payroll tax holiday, dropping the rate further to 3.1 percent for 2012. The rate for employers, which has remained at 6.2 percent this year, would fall to 3.1 percent on the first $5 million in payroll. Obama's plan also would exempt businesses from payroll taxes if they increase their payrolls by $50 million from the previous year. Businesses can add new workers or raise salaries for their existing employees. The extension would cost $245 billion and is the largest spending part of the president's jobs bill, according to the Congressional Research Service. For small businesses, the holiday extension will "encourage real hiring," said Todd McCracken, president of the National Small Business Association. He said ultimately Congress needs to pass a long-term deficit reduction and tax reform package. One key attribute of the payroll holiday is that it "is incredibly straight-forward" and helps businesses without complicated direct-assistance tax credits, Zandi said. Additional spending for emergency unemployment insurance will not have significant stimulative effect, Zandi said. Democratic Senator Robert Casey, chairman of the Senate Joint Economic Committee, which held the roundtable, emphasized urgency in implementing the payroll tax holiday. "If (Zandi) is right -- that we are too close to another dip -- then we need to act soon," Casey told Reuters.
Global nuclear war

Merlini, Senior Fellow – Brookings, 11 [Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe and chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome. He served as IAI president from 1979 to 2001. Until 2009, he also occupied the position of executive vice chairman of the Council for the United States and Italy, which he co-founded in 1983. His areas of expertise include transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology. A Post-Secular World? DOI: 10.1080/00396338.2011.571015 Article Requests: Order Reprints : Request Permissions Published in: journal Survival, Volume 53, Issue 2 April 2011 , pages 117 - 130 Publication Frequency: 6 issues per year Download PDF Download PDF (~357 KB) View Related Articles To cite this Article: Merlini, Cesare 'A Post-Secular World?', Survival, 53:2, 117 – 130]
Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities, albeit at the risk of oversimplification. The first scenario entails the premature crumbling of the post-Westphalian system. One or more of the acute tensions apparent today evolves into an open and traditional conflict between states, perhaps even involving the use of nuclear weapons. The crisis might be triggered by a collapse of the global economic and financial system, the vulnerability of which we have just experienced, and the prospect of a second Great Depression, with consequences for peace and democracy similar to those of the first. Whatever the trigger, the unlimited exercise of national sovereignty, exclusive self-interest and rejection of outside interference would likely be amplified, emptying, perhaps entirely, the half-full glass of multilateralism, including the UN and the European Union. Many of the more likely conflicts, such as between Israel and Iran or India and Pakistan, have potential religious dimensions. Short of war, tensions such as those related to immigration might become unbearable. Familiar issues of creed and identity could be exacerbated. One way or another, the secular rational approach would be sidestepped by a return to theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.

===Politics - Harvard=== 
___ Obama is pushing for military clean energy now – it’s his top priority
National Journal 2/10 (White House Budget to Expand Clean-Energy Programs Through Pentagon, http://www.nationaljournal.com/2013-budget/white-house-budget-to-expand-clean-energy-programs-through-pentagon-20120210?page=1)

The White House believes it has figured out how to get more money for clean-energy programs touted by President Obama without having it become political roadkill in the wake of the Solyndra controversy: Put it in the Pentagon. While details are thin on the ground, lawmakers who work on both energy- and defense-spending policy believe the fiscal 2013 budget request to be delivered to Congress on Monday probably won’t include big increases for wind and solar power through the Energy Department, a major target for Republicans since solar-panel maker Solyndra defaulted last year on a $535 million loan guarantee. But they do expect to see increases in spending on alternative energy in the Defense Department, such as programs to replace traditional jet fuel with biofuels, supply troops on the front lines with solar-powered electronic equipment, build hybrid-engine tanks and aircraft carriers, and increase renewable-energy use on military bases. While Republicans will instantly shoot down requests for fresh spending on Energy Department programs that could be likened to the one that funded Solyndra, many support alternative-energy programs for the military. “I do expect to see the spending,” said Rep. Jack Kingston, R-Ga., a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, when asked about increased investment in alternative-energy programs at the Pentagon. “I think in the past three to five years this has been going on, but that it has grown as a culture and a practice – and it’s a good thing.” “If Israel attacks Iran, and we have to go to war – and the Straits of Hormuz are closed for a week or a month and the price of fuel is going to be high,” Kingston said, “the question is, in the military, what do you replace it with? It’s not something you just do for the ozone. It’s strategic.” Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who sits on both the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, said, “I don’t see what they’re doing in DOD as being Solyndra.” “We’re not talking about putting $500 million into a goofy idea,” Graham told National Journal. “We’re talking about taking applications of technologies that work and expanding them. I wouldn’t be for DOD having a bunch of money to play around with renewable technologies that have no hope. But from what I understand, there are renewables out there that already work.” A senior House Democrat noted that this wouldn’t be the first time that the Pentagon has been utilized to advance policies that wouldn’t otherwise be supported. “They did it in the ’90s with medical research,” said Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., ranking member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. In 1993, when funding was frozen for breast-cancer research programs in the National Institutes of Health, Congress boosted the Pentagon’s budget for breast-cancer research – to more than double that of the health agency’s funding in that area. Politically, the strategy makes sense. Republicans are ready to fire at the first sign of any pet Obama program, and renewable programs at the Energy Department are an exceptionally ripe target. That’s because of Solyndra, but also because, in the last two years, the Energy Department received a massive $40 billion infusion in funding for clean-energy programs from the stimulus law, a signature Obama policy. When that money runs out this year, a request for more on top of it would be met with flat-out derision from most congressional Republicans. Increasing renewable-energy initiatives at the Pentagon can also help Obama advance his broader, national goals for transitioning the U.S. economy from fossil fuels to alternative sources. As the largest industrial consumer of energy in the world, the U.S. military can have a significant impact on energy markets – if it demands significant amounts of energy from alternative sources, it could help scale up production and ramp down prices for clean energy on the commercial market. Obama acknowledged those impacts in a speech last month at the Buckley Air Force Base in Colorado. “The Navy is going to purchase enough clean-energy capacity to power a quarter of a million homes a year. And it won’t cost taxpayers a dime,” Obama said. “What does it mean? It means that the world’s largest consumer of energy – the Department of Defense – is making one of the largest commitments to clean energy in history,” the president added. “That will grow this market, it will strengthen our energy security.” Experts also hope that Pentagon engagement in clean-energy technology could help yield breakthroughs with commercial applications. Kingston acknowledged that the upfront costs for alternative fuels are higher than for conventional oil and gasoline. For example, the Air Force has pursued contracts to purchase biofuels made from algae and camelina, a grass-like plant, but those fuels can cost up to $150 a barrel, compared to oil, which is lately going for around $100 a barrel. Fuel-efficient hybrid tanks can cost $1 million more than conventional tanks – although in the long run they can help lessen the military’s oil dependence, Kingston said Republicans recognize that the up-front cost can yield a payoff later. “It wouldn’t be dead on arrival. But we’d need to see a two- to three-year payoff on the investment,” Kingston said.

{insert Link}

And, Political capital is key to securing his clean energy budget
Draper, Brown Herald staff writer, 2/10 (Pheobe, http://www.browndailyherald.com/undergrad-finds-trend-in-climate-rhetoric-1.2698681#.Tza2qVF9nww)

Obama's change in rhetoric is an adaptation to political conditions in Washington D.C., Boykoff said. "Climate change in the U.S. has become such a politically polarizing issue," he added. "Other issues such as energy efficiency and switching to renewables actually do appeal to people across the spectrum. Maybe Obama and his staff are attuning to these trends and are adjusting their language accordingly." Rhetorical fine-tuning is especially important as election time nears, said Shawn Patterson '12, president of the Brown Democrats. "It's hard to come out against clean energy," he added. Obama's move is a "bipartisan attempt to make progress in the direction he wants to go in addressing climate change," while taking the Republican majority in the House into account. Obama doesn't want to waste political capital on projects that aren't going to get anywhere, Patterson said. The political flipside is slightly more critical. "As we get closer and closer to election time, Obama is under pressure to show that he's actually been doing something in office," said Terrence George '13, president of the Republican Club of Brown University. "I think he's trying to push more popular things closer to election time. Global warming is still a contentious issue, but energy production isn't quite so much."

**1NC Warming**

Clean energy solves warming

David C. Mowery et al, Prof. Business @ Berkeley, November, ‘3 (U.S. technology and innovation policies, p. google)
Efforts to mitigate global climate change will require technological innovations deployed on a massive scale. Although the problem is worldwide, this report deals only with U.S. policies to encourage the development, deployment, and diffusion of new technologies. As Figure 1 suggests, substantial reductions in U.S. CO2 emissions would require that the United States replace or retrofit hundreds of electric power plants and tens of millions of vehicles. In addition, appliances, furnaces, building systems, and factory equipment numbering in the hundreds of millions might also need to be modified or replaced. Technological change on this scale cannot happen overnight. Many of the technologies needed do not yet exist commercially or are too costly. Some alternatives, such as carbon sequestration, have yet to gain widespread social and political acceptance. Because the rates of development and adoption of new technologies respond to government policies as well as market forces such as energy prices, this report turns next to the innovation process and the factors that influence it.

Warming causes extinction.

John Brandenberg, PhD In Physics and Monica Paxson, Science Writer, ’99 (Dead Mars, Dying Earth, p. 232-233)
The ozone hole expands, driven by a monstrous synergy with global warming that puts more catalytic ice crystals into the stratosphere, but this affects the far north and south and not the major nations’ heartlands. The seas rise, the tropics roast but the media networks no longer cover it. The Amazon rainforest becomes the Amazon desert. Oxygen levels fall, but profits rise for those who can provide it in bottles. An equatorial high pressure zone forms, forcing drought in central Africa and Brazil, the Nile dries up and the monsoons fail. Then inevitably, at some unlucky point in time, a major unexpected event occurs—a major volcanic eruption, a sudden and dramatic shift in ocean circulation or a large asteroid impact (those who think freakish accidents do not occur have paid little attention to life or Mars), or a nuclear war that starts between Pakistan and India and escalates to involve China and Russia . . . Suddenly the gradual climb in global temperatures goes on a mad excursion as the oceans warm and release large amounts of dissolved carbon dioxide from their lower depths into the atmosphere. Oxygen levels go down precipitously as oxygen replaces lost oceanic carbon dioxide. Asthma cases double and then double again. Now a third of the world fears breathing. As the oceans dump carbon dioxide, the greenhouse effect increases, which further warms the oceans, causing them to dump even more carbon. Because of the heat, plants die and burn in enormous fires which release more carbon dioxide, and the oceans evaporate, adding more water vapor to the greenhouse. Soon, we are in what is termed a runaway greenhouse effect, as happened to Venus eons ago. The last two surviving scientists inevitably argue, one telling the other, “See! I told you the missing sink was in the ocean!”Earth, as we know it, dies. After this Venusian excursion in temperatures, the oxygen disappears into the soil, the oceans evaporate and are lost and the dead Earth loses its ozone layer completely. Earth is too far from the Sun for it to be the second Venus for long. Its atmosphere is slowly lost—as is its water—because of ultraviolet bombardment breaking up all the molecules apart from carbon dioxide. As the atmosphere becomes thin, the Earth becomes colder. For a short while temperatures are nearly normal, but the ultraviolet sears any life that tries to make a comeback. The carbon dioxide thins out to form a thin veneer with a few wispy clouds and dust devils. Earth becomes the second Mars—red, desolate, with perhaps a few hardy microbes surviving.

**1NC Naval power**
And, conversion to new renewable and clean energy is key to maintaining naval power
Ray Mabus, Secretary of the Navy, 3/2/2011

http://www.navy.mil/navydata/people/secnav/Mabus/Speech/ARPAe02Mar11.pdf]

To use your director’s own words, “Our dependence on fossil fuels severely threatens our national and environmental security due to our growing foreign energy independence. We as a nation need to change course with fierce urgency.” “Fierce urgency.” He’s exactly right. That’s why what ARPA-e does is so critically important for our country, for our military, for our economy. Having an institution that’s focused on finding, researching and developing the next eureka moments or the thousand more routine moments; finding technology that will change the way we work, you really can’t put a value on that. The Navy and Marine Corps, the services I am privileged to lead, have always supported innovation and always led technological change. We have constantly searched for those technologies that would improve our capabilities and allow us to better defend this country. This very week, 128 years ago, Congress authorized the ABCD ships - Atlanta, Boston, Chicago and Dolphin - the first four ships of the Navy to be constructed completely out of steel. In the 1880s, this was a pretty revolutionary concept because for most people – and I probably would have been in that group in 1880 – it was difficult to get past the notion that steel sinks. 2 But it was the way that we power our ships that maybe best shows the Navy’s willingness to innovate. In the 1850s, not long before we built the ABCD ships, the Navy changed from wind to coal. In the early part of the 20 th century we changed again from coal to oil. In the 1950s, we pioneered nuclear as a manner of propulsion. In every single case, in every one of these cases, there were naysayers that said, you’re trading one form of very proven energy for another form that we just don’t know if it’s going to work. It’s too expensive, it’s too hard, it’s too unproven. In fact, when we went from sail to coal, the uniformed leaders of the Navy objected saying that sail had been proven for thousands of years, what were we doing? Every single time there were naysayers and every single time they were wrong. And I am absolutely confident that as we make our next change - as we lead again in changing the way we power our ships and our aircraft, that the naysayers who say it’s too expensive, the technology is just not there - they are going to be proven wrong again because every time we’ve changed we’ve made us a better Navy. Every time we’ve changed, we’ve been better able to defend the United States. I think that today we’re at the cusp of another one of these changes, one that will move us off of an over-reliance on a very fragile global oil infrastructure and toward alternative and renewable sources of energy. It’s a move that we absolutely have to make because changing the way we produce energy, changing the way we use energy is fundamentally about improving the national security of this country. All you have to do is look at the headlines today. All you have to do is look at what is happening in the world. Our dependence on fossil fuels creates strategic operational and tactical vulnerabilities for our forces and makes them too susceptible to supply and price shocks caused by instability or natural disasters in volatile areas of the world where most of our fossil fuels are produced. Now, we would never allow these regions to build our ships. We would never allow these folks to build our aircraft or our ground vehicles, but we give them a say on whether our ships sail, our aircraft fly or our ground vehicles work. The security and the economic costs to the Navy and Marine Corps of using fossil fuels are significant. When the price of oil goes up, the price of defending this country goes up. Every dollar that a barrel of oil goes up in price, the Navy spends $31 million more for fuel. So, if the price goes up $30 a barrel, which it has more than once in the last decade, that’s a billion dollars. A billion dollars that we can’t use for other things, a billion dollars that we can’t budget for, a billion dollars that goes just to power the ships and aircraft and ground vehicles that we have. Now, that’s sort of the strategic and economic argument for change but there’s a different and more personal reason; it’s the Sailors and Marines in the field and how our dependence puts them at risk. In Afghanistan, the thing we import the most – the single thing that we spend the most effort getting to Afghanistan - is fuel. 3 And just think about getting a gallon of gasoline to a Marine front-line unit in Helmand province in Afghanistan. First you’ve got to put it on a ship and go across one ocean - the Pacific or the Atlantic. Then you have to take it either up through Pakistan or down through the Northern Distribution Network, through the Baltics and across Russia. And when you get to Afghanistan, you have to go across the Hindu Kush from the south or the Amu Darya River from the north. There are huge financial costs associated with it, but maybe, more important, there are huge other costs. The Army did a study that for every 24 convoys we’d lose a Soldier or a Marine, killed or wounded guarding that convoy. That’s a high price to pay for fuel. And we keep those Marines, those Sailors, those Soldiers, those Airmen from doing what they were sent there to do, which is fight and engage and rebuild. So we have to find another way to do this. We have to find a different way to power the things we need to power. And it’s for all those reasons that, in the fall of 2009, 17 months ago, I issued five energy goals for the Department of the Navy, for the Navy and the Marine Corps. The most important one is that by no later than 2020, no less than half of all the energy that the Navy and the Marine Corps uses afloat and ashore will come from non-fossil fuel sources. Also, by that same date of 2020, at least half our bases will be net-zero in terms of energy consumption, and in a lot of cases, those bases are going to be returning power to the grid instead of pulling power off of it. I think it’s important though to say that we’re not just changing for change’s sake. Everything that we’re doing is to make us better fighters and to make us more secure. Every time we make a change that improves the efficiencies of our engines or our systems, every time we move to an alternate source of power – every time – we get better and we make people safer. We’re already seeing the results. Right before Christmas I went to Afghanistan and one of the first Forward Operating Bases that I flew into was Sangin. And when we flew in, there was a firefight going on about 500 yards away because some of the toughest fighting that’s going on for the Marines all over Afghanistan is in Sangin. They’re fighting almost every day. But the 3 rd Battalion, 5 th Marines who went into Sangin as the first Marines deployed with alternate power units were also there. Now, the Marines have led in this, as they do in a lot of things, and they’ve set up two experimental Forward Operating Bases - one in Quantico, Virginia and one in Twentynine Palms, California - and they’re looking for ways to get power differently in the field. When the 3 rd of the 5 th left, going to Afghanistan, they were basically given solar power systems and told, try this out; see it if helps you. And the 3 rd Battalion, 5 th Marines go in Sangin, into heavy combat, and at the same time are trying some of these alternative ways to get fuel, to get power, and some amazing things happened. Their fossil fuel usage has gone down 20 4 percent, even though they weren’t given a whole lot of training on the things that they were taking and even though they were in the fight. One of the larger solar systems they took is being used to power their operations center. And across the battalion operating areas, there are a lot of man-portable systems. They’ve got these flexible solar panels they roll up, stick them in the back of their pack and take to charge their radios and their small electronics. And because of doing this, a foot patrol is able to operate without 700 pounds of batteries – 700 pounds that they don’t have to hump over the mountains, across the rivers and into the fight in Afghanistan. Now, at sea we’re trying to do some of the same things. One example is the first hybrid ship, what Tom Friedman called the “Prius of the seas.” But if you see it, it’s a big-deck amphibious ship, the USS MAKIN ISLAND, the biggest amphibious type that we have. It uses a hybrid drive and uses an electric drive for speeds of under 12 knots And it comes with a lot of benefits. The first thing, on its first voyage from Pascagoula, Mississippi, my home state, around to its home port – it went around South America to San Diego – it saved almost $2 million in fuel. And at current fuel prices, over the lifetime of that ship, it’s going to save a quarter of a billion dollars in fuel. Second, the less time we have to refuel on it or any other ship, the more time we get to patrol, do what we’re supposed to do, giving our commanders a lot more flexibility and a lot more time on station if they need it. And, finally, just by reducing the frequency of refueling operations, we make our ships safer. The COLE was in Aden to get fuel when it was attacked in 2001. But there are still a whole lot of challenges that we’re facing for our installations, our ships and our Forward Operating Bases. Our ships – the systems that we use and the power requirements that they have are getting bigger all the time. Every system we’re putting on a ship now or in an aircraft is in some ways sort of a power hog. Just like the commercial world, the march of technology in the military has created an ever-increasing appetite for energy. A Marine platoon in Vietnam took two or three radios on patrol with them. A Marine platoon in Afghanistan takes 30 to 50 radios on patrol with them. On our ships, high-tech radar systems and missile defense technologies and advanced gun systems use and need a lot of energy

Navel Power key to all conflicts – stops escalation
George Friedman, President of Stratfor, 2007. “The Limitations and Necessity of Naval Power,” http://www.billoreilly.com/blog?action=viewBlog&blogID=79097567983522037

The argument for slashing the Navy can be tempting. But consider the counterargument. First, and most important, we must consider the crises the United States has not experienced. The presence of the U.S. Navy has shaped the ambitions of primary and secondary powers. The threshold for challenging the Navy has been so high that few have even initiated serious challenges. Those that might be trying to do so, like the Chinese, understand that it requires a substantial diversion of resources. Therefore, the mere existence of U.S. naval power has been effective in averting crises that likely would have occurred otherwise. Reducing the power of the U.S. Navy, or fine-tuning it, would not only open the door to challenges but also eliminate a useful, if not essential, element in U.S. strategy-the ability to bring relatively rapid force to bear. There are times when the Navy's use is tactical, and times when it is strategic. At this moment in U.S. history, the role of naval power is highly strategic. The domination of the world's oceans represents the foundation stone of U.S. grand strategy. It allows the United States to take risks while minimizing consequences. It facilitates risk-taking. Above all, it eliminates the threat of sustained conventional attack against the homeland. U.S. grand strategy has worked so well that this risk appears to be a phantom. The dispersal of U.S. forces around the world attests to what naval power can achieve. It is illusory to believe that this situation cannot be reversed, but it is ultimately a generational threat. Just as U.S. maritime hegemony is measured in generations, the threat to that hegemony will emerge over generations. The apparent lack of utility of naval forces in secondary campaigns, like Iraq, masks the fundamentally indispensable role the Navy plays in U.S. national security.