[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Affirmative New Trier/University of Michigan== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government should implement the 2004 Vision for Space Exploration.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Status Quo</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current Obama space policy is not the VSE—kills NASA and produces unrealistic goals </span>**

[[http://www.time.com/time/letters/email_letter.html|**KLUGER**]]**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, 2011</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jeffery Kluger, is the Times Science writer) (April 16th) (“Has Obama's NASA Strategy Fizzled at Launch?”) (http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1982475,00.html) __(__</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M)</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obama's take on space… misreading of space history. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically it excludes the primary goal of a lunar base </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Faith 2010 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">technology consultant and Adjunct Fellow for Space Initiatives at CSIS </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> G. Ryan Space Review 4/26 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1616/1]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">President Obama’s April 15th statement… sustain politically over the longer term.</span>

**__Contention 2: Do or do not there is no try__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vision for Space Exploration establishes a lunar base and is key to further future space exploration </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Spudis</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">&</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lavoie 2010</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">MS in Planetary Geology PhD Geology NASA Marshall Space Flight Center Paul & Tony “Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return” Submitted to Space Manufacturing </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A key part of the 2004 Vision for Space Exploration...future survival of the human race. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VSE is an incremental strategy ensures success—</span>we make constant, steady progress toward our goal**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Spudis</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">&</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lavoie 2010</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">MS in Planetary Geology PhD Geology NASA Marshall Space Flight Center Paul & Tony“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return” Submitted to Space Manufacturing</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Starting in 2004, NASA hosted… propellant and other products. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It’s Try or die—currently we face multiple scenarios of extinction </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shapiro 09</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robert Shapiro is Professor Emeritus and Senior Research Scientist in the Department of Chemistry at New York University. He is author or co-author of over 125 publications, primarily in the area of DNA chemistry, and in the origin of life. In particular, he and his co-workers have studied the ways in which environmental chemicals can damage our hereditary material, causing changes that can lead to mutations and cancer. His research has been supported by numerous grants from the National Institutes of Health, Department of Energy, National Science Foundation and other organizations. Published in Space Policy (2009)25, 1-5, http://www.robertshapiro.org/a_new_rationale_for_returning_to_the_moon__protecting_civilization_with_a_sanctu_80306.htm)__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Of course, we have been hearing…lead to disease epidemics.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VSE leads to Research and development which is key to sustainable lunar development </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spudis and Lavoie 2010</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Paul, Lunar and Planetary Institute, and Tony Lavoie, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center) (“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return,”) (December 19th) (</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We have concentrated… using the resources of the Moon. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And colonization is feasible—multiple warrants</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dinkin, 2002</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (Sam Dinkin of Austin, Texas is a regular columnist at the Space Review) (“Colonize the Moon before Mars”) (September 7th) (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/221/1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">There are a number of reasons… low-g skills and labor saving technology. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1: Maintaining the Republic</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We’re falling behind in space leadership now both in technology and scienc</span>**__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">e</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Moskowitz 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">a senior writer for Live Science and Space.com (Clara Moskowitz, June 30, 2011, “For Visits to Asteroid & Mars, NASA Needs New Ways to Do Everything”, Space, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/12136-visits-asteroid-mars-nasa-ways.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Now that the station…technology we need to develop." </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abandoning the base sends an international signal that the US will no longer pursue space leadership – restoration is vital to forging international partnerships</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Newton</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Prof of Physics – U of Alabama Huntsville </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">& Griffin</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Former Administrator – NASA and Eminent Scholar and Professor – U of Alabama, Huntsville </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Elizabeth & Michael “United States Space Policy and International Partnership”, Space Policy, 27(1), February, p. 8-9</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The president’s request… on the Moon if it is not present?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And we’ll isolate China as an internal Link: </span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China emphasize cooperation with the US—they see it as beneficial </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Logsdon and Krolikowsk, 2011</span>**__//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>//__//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">John M. Logsdon is Professor Emeritus at the Space Policy Institute, Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University. Alanna Krolikowski is a Visiting Scholar and Fulbright doctoral grantee at the Space Policy Institute and a PhD candidate at the University of Toronto//) (“//Enhancing US-China Relations in Space**”) (**September 22nd**) (**http://www.chinausfocus.com/slider/enhancing-us-china-relations-in-space/) **(**</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>**__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The most visible part of China’s space program…U.S. expectations for transparency. </span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">However current Wolf Clause hinders cooperation—</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">based on flawed, lingering cold war ideology</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Xinhua, 2011,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“'Wolf Clause' betrays China-US cooperation,”) (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/us/2011-05/18/content_12531720.htm</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The bill included a…peace-loving people in the world.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This misperception makes conflict inevitable creates the perception of space race and China developing offensive space military capabilities </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Johnson-Freesea 2006</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Naval War College, Newport, USA, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">06</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Joan, “A New US-Sino Space Relationship: Moving Toward Cooperation”, Astropolitics, Vol 4 No 1, August]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A new term has been floating…level the playing field.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chinese militarization of space is only a response to US perception of space race</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gargasz 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Michael Luke, Major, United States Air Force, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, “We’ve Rattled Our Sabers…Now What? The Future of US/China Space Relations”) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Similar to the traditional US…gotten more aggressive in its tone. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Militarization causes a Hair trigger stance - miscalc and accidental launches will be inevitable—leads to extinction </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mitchell, 01</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A buildup of space weapons… the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, implementing the VSE sparks cooperation with China</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Moltz, 2011</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(James Clay Moltz is a professor national security, Naval Postgraduate Sch) (Journal of Contemporary China, Issue 68, pp. 69-87, vol. 20) (</span>__**RICHARD M**__)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Another forward-looking prospect for greater US-Chinese cooperation… truly international coalition for this work.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Base enables international participation—lunar return scenario </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spudis</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> MS in Planetary Geology PhD Geology </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">&</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lavoie</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NASA Marshall Space Flight Center </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Paul & Tony </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return” Submitted to Space Manufacturing </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The modular, incremental nature… possible under the previous ESAS architecture.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China space cooperation eliminates the incentive to develop harmful space technology and solve for space militarization </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ressler 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Aaron R, Major, USAF, under the direction of Edwina S. Campbell, Ph.D, “ADVANCING SINO-U.S. SPACE COOPERATION”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA539619)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">After reviewing Chinese counterspace capabilities…the pursuit of such activities</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooperation key to solve for other global issues including the security dilemma </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dumbaugh, 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Kerry Dumbaugh Specialist in Asian Affairs, and fas.org article) (“China-U.S. Relations: Current Issues and Implications for U.S. Policy”) (October 8th) (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R40457.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RIC</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">HARD M</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">From this perspective, U.S. policy… out of step with global trends.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space militarization is not inevitable: </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. it’s a social construct</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Foreign weaponization is contingent upon U.S. action</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Grondin, 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">– </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (David, The (Power) Politics of Space: The U.S. Astropolitical Discourse of Global Dominance in the War on Terror)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US astropolitical analysts and state…space weaponization by other countries.” </span>
==Affirmative Niles West== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government should implement the 2004 Vision for Space Exploration.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Current Obama space policy is not the VSE it kills NASA and produces unrealistic goals</span>**

__<span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">KLUGER,</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 2011</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (Jeffery Kluger, is the Times Science writer) (April 16th) (“Has Obama's NASA Strategy Fizzled at Launch?”) (http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1982475,00.html) (**RICHARD M)**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obama's take on space...misreading of space history.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Specifically it excludes the primary goal of a lunar base</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Faith 2010</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">technology consultant and Adjunct Fellow for Space Initiatives at CSIS 2010 G. Ryan Space Review 4/26 [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1616/1|__http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1616/1__]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">President Obama’sApril 15th statement... politically over the longer term.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2: Lunar Base</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">VSE is the starting point for future space exploration—initially starts with a Lunar base and spills over to other exploration strategies</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spudis&Lavoie 2010</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(MS in Planetary Geology PhD Geology NASA Marshall Space Flight Center Paul & Tony “Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return” Submitted to Space Manufacturing</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf|__http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf__]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A key part of the 2004 Vision for Space Exploration (VSE)...survival of the human race.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">VSE is an incremental strategy ensures success—we make constant, steady progress toward our goal</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spudis&Lavoie 2010</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(MS in Planetary Geology PhD Geology NASA Marshall Space Flight Center Paul & Tony“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return” Submitted to Space Manufacturing</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf|__http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf__]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Starting in 2004, NASA hosted a number of retreats... into propellant and other products. </span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">It’s Try or die—currently we face multiple scenarios of extinction it’s just a matter of time</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shapiro 09</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robert Shapiro is Professor Emeritus and Senior Research Scientist in the Department of Chemistry at New York University. He is author or co-author of over 125 publications, primarily in the area of DNA chemistry, and in the origin of life. In particular, he and his co-workers have studied the ways in which environmental chemicals can damage our hereditary material, causing changes that can lead to mutations and cancer. His research has been supported by numerous grants from the National Institutes of Health, Department of Energy, National Science Foundation and other organizations. Published in Space Policy (2009)25, 1-5, http://www.robertshapiro.org/a_new_rationale_for_returning_to_the_moon__protecting_civilization_with_a_sanctu_80306.htm)__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Of course, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">we have been hearing predictions of Doomsday for years...unburied bodies could then lead to disease epidemics.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Magnitude outweighs</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shapiro, 09</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Robert Shapiro is Professor Emeritus and Senior Research Scientist in the Department of Chemistry at New York University. He is author or co-author of over 125 publications, primarily in the area of DNA chemistry, and in the origin of life. In particular, he and his co-workers have studied the ways in which environmental chemicals can damage our hereditary material, causing changes that can lead to mutations and cancer. His research has been supported by numerous grants from the National Institutes of Health, Department of Energy, National Science Foundation and other organizations) (http://lifeboat.com/ex/why.the.moon.human.survival__)__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The most compelling reason for establishing a base on the Moon is... </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">to provide reasons for our investment.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">And Plan creates innovation in the long run</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spudis and Lavoie 2010</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Paul, Lunar and Planetary Institute, and Tony Lavoie, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center) (“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return,”) (December 19th) ([[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf|__http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf__]].) **(RICHARD M)**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This return to the Moon... generator of innovation and national wealth</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Plan allows first robots—makes space exploration more efficient</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spudis and Lavoie 2010 (Paul, Lunar and Planetary Institute, and Tony Lavoie, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center) (“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return,”) (December 19th) ([[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf]].)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">The Moon is the closest planetary… the Moon at any time</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">VSE leads to Research and development which is key to sustainable lunar development</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spudis and Lavoie 2010</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Paul, Lunar and Planetary Institute, and Tony Lavoie, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center) (“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return,”) (December 19th) ([[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf|__http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf__]].)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We have concentrated on the water production...the resources of the Moon.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">And there are resources on the moon to sustain our presence</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lowman, Sharpe, and Schrunk. 2008__,__ (by Paul D. Lowman Jr. Geophysicist, NASA Goddard Burton L. Sharpe Lunar researcher David G. Schrunk Aerospace engineer and MD/radiologist) __(__</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.iloa.org/media/Moonbase_Mons_Malapert.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NASA’s present plans call for returning humans to the Moon... used for a host of other applications on the Moon.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Currently we have the available launch vehicles and existing shuttle hardware that’s sufficient to start the VSE</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spudis and Lavoie 2010</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Paul, Lunar and Planetary Institute, and Tony Lavoie, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center) (“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return,”) (December 19th) ([[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf|__http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf__]].)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">At least three different studies examined the cost problems of the ESAS architecture...gathered from surface lander and rover missions.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">That’s key to lunar missions—can be developed faster and at a lower cost</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rothschild et al 10-</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(William J. Rothschild- //The Boeing Company/Space Exploration, AIAA Member//, and Theodore A. Talay- //NASA/LARC//, Edward M. Henderson- //NASA/JSC, AIAA Associate Fellow//, April 25-30, 2010, “Deep Space Operations Enabled By A Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle”, AIAA Space Operations 2010 Conference__)__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Use of well understood, legacy elements of the Space Shuttle...market place that would revolutionize space commerce.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">And colonization is feasible—resources and technology exists on the moon</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Schrunk et al. 7</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; //The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement//, 2nd edition, pp. 80-81, p. SpringerLink, MV)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As shown in the previous chapters...excellent location for the first lunar base.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario One is leadership:</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">We’re falling behind in space leadership now both in technology and science</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moskowitz 2011</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">-</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">a senior writer for Live Science and Space.com (Clara Moskowitz, June 30, 2011, “For Visits to Asteroid & Mars, NASA Needs New Ways to Do Everything”, Space, [[http://www.space.com/12136-visits-asteroid-mars-nasa-ways.html|__http://www.space.com/12136-visits-asteroid-mars-nasa-ways.html__]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Now that the station is complete and the shuttle program...science and exploration needs drive the technology we need to develop.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Abandoning the base sends an international signal that the US will no longer pursue space leadership – restoration is vital to forging international partnerships</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Newton Prof of Physics – U of Alabama Huntsville & Griffin Former Administrator – NASA and Eminent Scholar and Professor – U of Alabama, Huntsville 2011 Elizabeth & Michael “United States Space Policy and International Partnership”, Space Policy, 27(1), February, p. 8-9</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The president’s request and congressional authorization for continued funding...-on the Moon if it is not present?</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And we’ll isolate the Internal Links:</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">First is China:</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Current Wolf Clause based on flawed, lingering cold war ideology—hinders cooperation</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Xinhua, 2011,</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“'Wolf Clause' betrays China-US cooperation,”) (http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/us/2011-05/18/content_12531720.htm) (**__RICHARD M__**)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The bill included a clause which bans any China-US joint scientific research...should raise the vigilance of peace-loving people in the world.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Makes conflict inevitable creates the perception of space race and China developing offensive space military capabilities</span>**

//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson-Freesea</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Naval War College, Newport, USA, </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">06</span>//
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Joan, “A New US-Sino Space Relationship: Moving Toward Cooperation”, Astropolitics, Vol 4 No 1, August]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A new term has been floating around Washington. Congagement...Working with China gives them a chance to level the playing field.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Currently China wants to cooperate with the US over space</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">DeSelding,2011</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(PeterdeSelding,,4/14/11,“ChineseGovernmentOfficialUrgesU.S.-ChineseSpaceCooperation” [[http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110414-chinese-official-space-cooperation.html|__http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110414-chinese-official-space-cooperation.html__]] ACC 7/31/11)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">A top Chinese government space official...particularly in deep space exploration.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">China has already proposed the framework for space cooperation—it is only a question of U.S. joining</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Yan 6</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Yangtze, Xinhua News, “China offers 4-point proposal to boost Sino-US space co-op”, 9/25/06, http://www.gov.cn/english/2006-09/25/content_398469.htm)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">China has offered a four-point proposal to boost Sino-U.S. space cooperation...,well-being of the human race," Sun added.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Despite current political opposition—provision doesn’t end bilateral scientific cooperation</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Foust 2011</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jeff Foust, is the editor and publisher of The Space Review. He also operates the[[http://www.spacetoday.net/|__Spacetoday.net__]] web site and the [[http://www.spacepolitics.com/|__Space Politics__]] and [[http://www.personalspaceflight.info/|__Personal Spaceflight__]]**) (“**[[http://www.spacepolitics.com/2011/05/05/whats-the-future-of-us-china-cooperation-in-space/|__What’s the future of US-China cooperation in space?__]]”) (May 5th) (http://www.spacepolitics.com/2011/05/05/whats-the-future-of-us-china-cooperation-in-space/) (**__RICHARD M)__**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">One of the few specific space policy...with them and with others,” he said.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, implementing the VSE sparks cooperation with China</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moltz, 2011</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(James Clay Moltz is a professor national security, Naval Postgraduate Sch) (Journal of Contemporary China, Issue 68, pp. 69-87, vol. 20) (**__RICHARD M__**)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Another forward-looking prospect for...international coalition for this work.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Base enables international participation—lunar return scenario</span>**

__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spudis</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> MS in Planetary Geology PhD Geology __&Lavoie__NASA Marshall Space Flight Center __2010__Paul & Tony</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return” Submitted to Space Manufacturing</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The modular, incremental nature of this architecture...</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> possible under the previous ESAS architecture.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Chinese militarization of space is only a response to perception of space race—specifically asats</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gargasz 10</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Michael Luke, Major, United States Air Force, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, “We’ve Rattled Our Sabers…Now What? The Future of US/China Space Relations”)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Similar to the traditional US view of peaceful... rhetoric has gotten more aggressive in its tone.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">US-China space cooperation eliminates the incentive to develop ASATs technology and solve for space militarization</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ressler 9</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Aaron R, Major, USAF, under the direction of Edwina S. Campbell, Ph.D, “ADVANCING SINO-U.S. SPACE COOPERATION”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA539619)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">After reviewing Chinese counterspace capabilities...pursuit of such activities. </span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Militarization causes a Hair trigger stance - miscalc and accidental launches will be inevitable—leads to extinction</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mitchell, 01</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html|__http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html__]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A buildup of space weapons...destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">US-China space cooperation critical—solves space militarization, reasserts US leadership, and boosts relations</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mindell et. al, 08</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">– David A., Director of the Program in Science, and director of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group at MIT (December 2008, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “The Future of Human Spaceflight,” http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As China enters the human spaceflight arena...</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">between the United States and China.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Space militarization is not inevitable:</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">1. it’s a social construct</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">2. Foreign weaponization is contingent upon U.S. action</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Grondin, 6</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">– Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (David, The (Power) Politics of Space: The U.S. Astropolitical Discourse of Global Dominance in the War on Terror)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US astropolitical analysts and state... **space weaponization by other countries**."</span>


=Answers To:= 
=Disadvantages= 
==Obama Good== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Winners win </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Singer 2k9</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Editor of MyDirectDemocracy, JD Candidate at Berkeley Law (Jonathan, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital”, [[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Peter Hart gets at a key point…ending the war in Iraq.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress is committed to human spaceflight programs its increasing NASA funds </span>**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Powell 09</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stewart, political analyst and reporter, Moon mission gets help in Congress, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6780240.html]], 12/21/09)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Fearful that the White House might scale back…Republicans</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> in the Senate and none in the House. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No internal link – issues are compartilized</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dickinson 2k9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">– Professor of Political Science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power”)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As for Sotomayor, from here the path…measured through legislative boxscores.</span>

==Spending== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Stimulating money in the economy solves – budget cuts only increase layoffs, decrease state government funds and consumer spending</span>**</span>

__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Seidman, 2011</span>**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">, (is a professor of economics at the University of Delaware.) 9/14 “Don't turn a recession into a depression”</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">) ([[http://www.delawareonline.com/article/20110915/OPINION09/109150323/Don-t-turn-recession-into-depression?odyssey=mod%7Cnewswell%7Ctext%7CHome%7Cs]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Here's a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> fact many citizens don't know</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">…fiscal stimulus to combat a recession.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Non-unique – congress won’t stop spending now</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**__SATTERFIELD,4–28 –1__1 (**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Terry Satterfield, Politicians can't cut **spending**) ([[http://www.marionstar.com/article/BF/20110428/OPINION02/104280348/Politicians-can-t-cut-spending?odyssey=nav|head|http://www.marionstar.com/article/BF/20110428/OPINION02/104280348/Politicians-can-t-cut-**spending**?odyssey=nav|head]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">In the 18th century, as democratic ideals… programs for our senior citizens!").</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress is committed to human spaceflight programs its increasing NASA funds </span>**

__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Powell 09</span>**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stewart, political analyst and reporter, Moon mission gets help in Congress, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6780240.html]], 12/21/09)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Fearful that the White House might scale back…Republicans in the Senate and none in the House. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan key to the economy and job growth in the long run—multiple warrants </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dr. **__David Livingston 2008__**, (prof., Space Studies, Univ. of North Dakota, January 21, 2008) (http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1040/1)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The money spent on manned space exploration…federal funding has been terminated</span>

==**Space Mill**== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">No Link, VSE key to demonstrate peaceful activities—China won’t weaponize unless provoked by the US</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Baofu, 2007</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Baifu Wang is by People's Daily Online and its author Wang Baofu, a research fellow and deputy director of the Strategic Studies Institute of the Chinese National Defense University) (“Outer space not let to overcast with war clouds”) (April 3rd) (http://english.people.com.cn/200704/03/eng20070403_363411.html</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">) (</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">In fact, what the global… the entire global community. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Weaponization of the moon won’t occur—NSP stops it </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">White House 06</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> (<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/national-space-policy-2006.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">The conduct of U.S. space programs… consistent with national security.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Obama is not weaponizing space - now is key time to cooperate </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Zhang 11</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> (Baohui, March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship”, Asian Survey, Pg 328-31, Vol. 51, No. 2, http://www.jstor.org/action/showArticleInfo?doi=10.1525%2FAS.2011.51.2.311)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Important changes in U.S. strategic posture…security cooperation with the U.S. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Other actors check—Russia not weaponizing now </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RIA 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> (MOSCOW, April 9 (RIA Novosti, “Russia has no plans to deploy weapons in space - top brass” accessed 7/11/10 Russia has no plans to deploy weapons in space - top brass aes)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">The commander of Russia's space… force against space objects. </span>

==Debris== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EVEN WITHOUT a solution, the debris problem won’t escalate for hundreds of years</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Times 2010</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Duncan Graham-Rowe, Science Writer, “Junk in space,” 6-3, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">How you define the point…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">will take over.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No Impact to Space Debris</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dolman 2006</span>__</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies Comparative Military Studies professor,**)** (Everett, “Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, George C. Marshall Institute, 3-10-06, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/408.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dolman: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Well, I think that…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">enforce some sort of order</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The link is small - the US doesn’t produce much debris and is already engaged in cleanup - and national security outweighs anyway</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">USSD 7</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(US State Department, “Study on Space Policy: Report on the International Security Advisory Board,” April 27, Accessed on Spacedebate.com, http://www.spacedebate.org/evidence/3003)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States is party to the Convention…threaten populations, armed forces, and infrastructure. </span>

==Ozone== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Depletion is inevitable—manufactured products and temperature rotation</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wilkins, 2011,</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Alsadair Wilkins) (October 3rd) (“Giant ozone hole opens up over the Arctic for the first time”) (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://io9.com/5846155/giant-ozone-hole-opens-up-over-the-arctic-for-the-first-time]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A hole in Earth's protective ozone layer… likely linger on for decades more. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Depletion is slow prefer our timeframe</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Vince, 2003,</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Gaia Vince from the new scientists online web news) (“Earth's ozone depletion is finally slowing”) (July 30th) (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn4010-earths-ozone-depletion-is-finally-slowing.html]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Almost 30 years after… amount of ozone and other gases.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alt Causes:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A) Solar flares </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Young 07</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Kelly, Aerospace Staffwriter, 19:33 23 March 2007 “ Solar 'superflare' shredded Earth's ozone” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn11456-solar-superflare-shredded-earths-ozone.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The largest solar flare in the last…CFCs and other human-made chemicals. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) Climate change </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Perlman 08</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(David, Chronicle Science Editor, November 21, 2008, “Death bloom of plankton a warning on warming” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://articles.sfgate.com/2008-11-21/news/17128313_1_sea-ice-high-arctic-phytoplankton]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Vanishing Arctic sea ice brought on by climate change… appear and disappear, Arrigo's team has found.</span>

==Disease== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Space research discovers cures for diseases</span>**

Martin **Schwab**, security strategist at the University of Zurich, 20**06** [“dhttp://beyondearth.org/pdfs/beyond-earth-ch-34.pdf ]

Natural and human influenced… global civilization as we know it.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Viruses in space are highly unlikely</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brian Thomas, M.S</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. (Master in Science), 6/8/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2009</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> [“Viral Life from Outer Space? Not Likely.”, June 8th, 2009, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">http://www.icr.org/article/viral-life-from-outer-space-not-likely/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">]</span>

Since a whole, functioning cell…even more complications.
== == 
=Counter Plans= 
==COC== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is only way to make COC effective</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__Logan__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, 2007</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, (Jeffrey Specialist in Energy Policy Resources, Science, and Industry Division, 07 [“China’s Space Program: Options for U.S.-China Cooperation”, CRS, December 14, pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Benefits of Cooperating with China…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">military issues could be included.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Links to Politics—Republicans hate the CoC</span>**

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space News 11</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. (2/4/11. “Republicans Wary of EU Space Conduct Code” submitted by the Washington Times.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/110204-republicans-wary-code-for-space-activity.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The //Washington Times// also got hold…from the Senate,' they wrote."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A ban on weapons can’t solve, only cooperation on similar interests can </span>**

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Huntley et al 10</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> – US Naval Postgraduate School [Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Pages 25-38]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This presumption that weaponry… begin to endure self-sustainably.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Consult Russia </span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of VSE hinders US-Russian space coop </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">O’Flynn, 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,(Kevin, editor and journalist at the Moscow Times, “Space programme: American astronauts hitching a ride with Russia's Soyuz,” “The Telegraph,” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sponsored/russianow/society/7559293/Space-programme-American-astronauts-hitching-a-ride-with-Russias-Soyuz.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">On April 2, new Soyuz crew members… done through international cooperation."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-Russia Space Cooperation key to bilateral relations</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Millar and Logsdon 2001</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">; Director, Space Policy Institute (Director, Institute for European, Russian, and Eurasian Studies; U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight: Assessing the Impacts] </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Even though, this same participant noted…space research and exploration.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Relations high spy scandal proves</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">—allowing for cooperation, and focusing on internal and domestic issues </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">James **__Brooke, 11/12/10__**, (Russian Double Agent Betrayed Spy Ring in US) (http://www.voanews.com/english/news/usa/Russian-Double-Agent-Betrayed-Spy-Ring-In-US-107505278.html) (**__RICHARD M__**)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Russia's spy scandal is flaring up… story had faded since last summer.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Alt Causes: </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic cooperation key to US-Russian relations</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lavrov 6/11/10</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Sergey</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">; Russian Foreign Minister when asked about the keys to improved US-Russian relations “We can't say that NATO presents a threat to us” Kommersant, June 11th 2010; Lexis</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">But I will emphasize that…modernize the same AN-124.</span>

== == 
==<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Privatization</span>**</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Privatization doesn’t solve space leadership and funding for human space flight is too risky</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wu 7/8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- a member of the Space and on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology (David Wu, July 8, 2011, “Pursuing the next giant leap in space exploration”, The Hill, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/170401-pursuing-the-next-giant-leap-in-space-exploration-]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Governments have an important…jeopardizing our children's future.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooperation only happens through the public government – private sector can’t come into the mix</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Keys, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (Tracey Keys writer at the globaltrends.com) (May 1st) (“Newly Privatized: The Race For Space”) (http://www.globaltrends.com/component/content/article/56/126-newly-privatized-the-race-for-space) (</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M)</span>__**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">On the positive side… </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">now part of the mix?</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perm solves – government R+D is key to private development</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spudis</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">MS in Planetary Geology PhD Geology </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Paul Space Review http://www.thespacereview.com/article/791/1</span>

What is the role of NASA… modern American business.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Links to politics</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Foust</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">3/22/</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> – editor and publisher of The Space Review (Jeff, “Can commercial space win over Congress?”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1592/1)</span>

When the White House… next several months.

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">**CP doesn’t solve—Private industries lack the funding and technology**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dinnerman August 1-11</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Taylor, Senior editor Hudson Institute) (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hudson-ny.org/2299/nasa-us-national-security]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>

The expectation that the "New Space"…second half of the 21st century.

== == 
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] any questions on the AFF email [[mailto:richard_metaj@comcast.net|richard_metaj@comcast.net]]On the NEG email [[mailto:sharroaltu22@gmail.com|sharroaltu22@gmail.com]]