===[[toc]]=== 
=TOC= 
==Neg== 
===Round 1 - Juan Diego IR, ISS aff=== 
<span style="text-align: center;">__**1NC**__</span>

**The United States federal government should propose to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that it** [substantially increase its missions to the ISS for the purpose of neurosciecnce experiments beyond the earths mesosphere] **through a process of genuine consultation, and abide by the outcome. We’ll clarify**


**Observation 1- Competition** 

**The affirmative must defend immediate unconditional implementation of the plan**

**A. Resolved” means to “decide firmly on a course of action” and “should” is “used to indicate obligation.”** 
**We test the resolution, which is key to Neg ground and functional competition** ***[New Oxford American Dictionary]

**The 1AC could spike out of any argument by saying the plan is delayed or not enforced-every negative argument link assumes implementation**


**B. Our interpretation is that permutations can be extra topical but not entirely non topical-this is the best middle ground** 


**NATO will say yes even when they want the opposite to preserve relations with the US** 
**Schmidt ‘07** [John R., the senior analyst for Europe in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the Department of State and former director of the NATO office at the State Department and as director for NATO affairs at the National Security Council, “Last Alliance Standing? NATO after 9/11” Washington Quarterly - PROVOCATIONS; Vol. 30, No. 1; Pg. 93. Winter, Lexis]
Although France is not without allies, .. or in funding the NRF.


**Prior genuine consultation key to alliance cohesion and effectiveness** 
**Goldgeier & Sherwood-Randall 5**, James Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Institute for European Studies at George Washington, and Elizabeth, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Alliance Relations at Stanford, BRIEFING FOR JOURNALISTS ON THE PRESIDENT’S TRIP TO EUROPE, February 18, 2005, http://www.cfr.org/publication/7850/briefing_for_journalists_on_the_presidents_trip_to_europe.html ACM

MR. GOLDGEIER: Well, you know, ...n capitals and at NATO.

**Collapse of NATO causes superpower nuclear war**
**O'Sullivan 98**, John editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6 [American Spectator] 
Some of those ideas--notably,... __**sought to profit from the sudden absence of the main guarantor of European stability**__. 

<span style="text-align: center;">__**1NC**__ </span>

**The aff’s paranoid threat discourse is epistemologically flawed and replicates psychological projections of** __**enmity**__ 
**Mack 90** – Doctor of Psychiatry and a professor at Harvard University (John, “The Enemy System” http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/eJournal/article.asp?id=23 *Gender modified)

__The threat of nuclear annihilation ...__to the process. 


**This psychological construct causes error replication and extinction** 
**Hollander 3** – professor of Latin American history and women's studies at California State University (Nancy, "A Psychoanalytic Perspective on the Politics of Terror:In the Aftermath of 9/11" www.estadosgerais.org/mundial_rj/download/FLeitor_NHollander_ingl.pdf)

In this sense, then, ... __**stimulates paranoia.**__ 

**Reject their psychologically constructed scenarios for conflict – a reformulation of language, knowledge production, and our reaction to psychic trauma breaks down the cycle of enmity** 
**Byles 3**(Joanna Montgomery, prof of English @ the Univ of Cyprus, Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society 8.2 (2003) 208-213, Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification). 
It is here of course that ... __state of mind and__, most importantly, __a way of thinking.__

<span style="text-align: center;">__**1NC**__</span>

__**Text: Congress should delegate the authority to** [__substantially increase its missions to the ISS for the purpose of neurosciecnce experiments beyond the earths mesospheresubstantially increase its missions to the ISS for the purpose of neurosciecnce experiments beyond the earths mesosphere__]**. The [NASA] should pursue and enact the congressional delegation.**__ 

**Counterplan solves the aff and doesn’t link to politics.** 
David **Epstein and O’Hallaron 99**, Department of Political Science and Stanford Graduate School of Business, Columbia and Stanford University, and Sharyn O’Hallaron, Department of Political Science and the School of International and Public Affairs and Hoover Institution, Columbia and Stanford University, January 1999 (“The Nondelegation Doctrine and the Separation of Powers” – Cardozo Law Review) p. lexis 
Our institutional analysis begins ... __would be the preferred mode of policymaking__. 

**Counterplan key to maintain separation of powers**
**Bryner, ’87** [Gary, Ph. D in Govt, Poli Sci @ BYU, “Bureaucratic Discretion: Law and Policy in Federal Regulatory Agencies,” p.5-6]
Bureaucratic discretion is also ...unpopular agency actions.

**That’s key to prevent nuclear war** 
Martin H. **Redish**, Law Professor, Northwestern University **and** Elizabeth J. **Cisar**, Clerk Chief Judge William Bauer, U.S. Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, Duke Law Journa, 19**91**, lexis.
In summary, no ... __“I told you so.”__


<span style="text-align: center;">__**1NC**__ </span>

**Jackson Vanik will pass in conjunction with Magnitsky**
**Inside U.S. Trade, 4/20** [“Hormats Says Administration Engaged with Congress on Magnitsky Bill,” pg. lexis]
__A senior State Department ... as it joins the W__orld __T__rade __O__rganization.

ISS links to politics
Matthews, 4/21 [Mark K., “International space station’s value to science questioned,” [[http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/nationworld/2018041318_spacestation22.html]]]
"__The international space ...__"We are increasing utilization as fast as we can."

**Pol cap key**
**STOKES ’11** (Bruce, An Agenda, If You Can Keep It, 1/26, National Journal, p. http://www2.nationaljournal.com/member/daily/balance-of-payments)
After years of relative quiescence, ...__, but doing so could be an uphill slog__.




**Magnitsky is key to the rule of law in Russia** 
**Cohen, 4/25** [Ariel, PhD, Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation, “Promoting Human Rights in Russia through the Sergei Magnitsky Act,” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/04/promoting-human-rights-in-russia-through-the-sergei-magnitsky-act]
Protection of basic human rights,..from entering Russia.[3] 

**Lack of Russian rule of law ensures selling nuclear material**
**Patrick, 11** [Stewart N., Senior Fellow and Director of the International Institutions and Global Governance Program, //Weak Links: Fragile States, Global Threats, and International Security//, pg. google books]
__Even in relatively ...__ WMD to terrorist.” .

__**Greatest risk**__ **for nuclear terrorism**
**Patrick, 11** [Stewart N., Senior Fellow and Director of the International Institutions and Global Governance Program, //Weak Links: Fragile States, Global Threats, and International Security//, pg. google books]
As one journalist puts it, ...__illicit WMD material.__

**Extinction**
Dennis Ray **Morgan**, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yangin Campus, South Korea, “World on Fire: Two Scenarios of the Destruction of Human Civilization and Possible Extinction of the Human Race,” FUTURES v. 41, 20**09**, pp. 683-93, ScienceDirect.
In a remarkable w...__ecosphere__ as well.


<span style="text-align: center;">__**1NC Science Diplomacy CP**__ </span>

**The United States federal government should implement The Global Science Program for Security, Competitiveness, and Diplomacy Act of 2010.**

**CP solves science diplomacy and doesn’t link to politics** 
**SciDev.net, 3/18/10** [US Congress eyes science diplomacy program, http://www.scidev.net/en/news/us-congress-eyes-science-diplomacy-programme-1.html] 

A prominent US ...before being enforced. 
<span style="text-align: center;">__**ISS**__</span>
**Deterioration of relations doesn’t cause war**
**Jarvis, 08** (Dr. Robert Jervis, Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Politics, Columbia University, 12-19-08, ““The New Cold War?” U.S.-Russian Relations after the Invasion of Georgia,” [[http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=9100&Itemid=132]] kdej)
__First, I do want to ...That would not at all be unusual.__ 

**Space cooperation doesn’t boost relations.** 
**NPR 9**(“Tensions Brew In U.S.-Russian Space Partnership” [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=103296402]] kdej)
Signs Of Tension But __...__Soyuz mission in 1975. 



<span style="text-align: center;">__**Military**__</span>






**Economic growth is diffusing globally, enabling the “rise of the rest”—the U.S. is encouraging integration of emerging powers**

**Berliner****, director at the NDN****, 10** **–** **Jake Berliner, Deputy Policy Director of the New Democratic Network’s Globalization Initiative, April 23, 2010, “The Rise of the Rest: How New Economic Powers are Reshaping the Globe,” online:** [[http://ndn.org/essay/2010/04/rise-rest-how-new-economic-powers-are-reshaping-globe|**http://ndn.org/essay/2010/04/rise-rest-how-new-economic-powers-are-reshaping-globe**]] __**G-Berg**__**)**



**The** __**structure of the ...** **global economy.**__ 




**The plan’s increase of the material power gap causes global backlash against U.S. power that makes effective leadership impossible.**

**Maher, Ph.D. in pol sci, 11** **–** **Richard Maher, Ph.D. in Political Science from Brown University, Winter 2011, “The Paradox of American Unipolarity: Why the United States May Be Better Off in a Post-Unipolar World,” Orbis, Vol. 55, No. 1, p. 53-68** __**G-Berg**__**)**



**Since the disintegration ...** __**‘‘post-unipolar’’ world.**__





**U.S. acceptance of China’s and Russia’s rising status is key to cooperation on terrorism, prolif, and north korea**

**Larson****, pol sci prof,** **10**—**Larson & Shevchenko 10 – Deborah Welch Larson, Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Los Angeles, and Alexei Shevchenko, Assistant Professor of Political Science at California State University, Fullerton, Spring 2010, “Status Seekers: Chinese and Russian Responses to U.S. Primacy,” International Security, Vol. 34, No. 4, p. 63-95** __**G-Berg**__**)**



**Since the end of the ...** __**of social competition.**__


**No risk of a miscalculated war—states inevitably step back from the brink**
**Trachtenberg, Prof. History @ University of Pennsylvania, 2000** 
[Marc The "Accidental War" Question, February 14, www.sscnet.ucla.edu/polisci/faculty/trachtenberg/cv/ inadv(1).pdf]

The second point has...rendered less "accidental."


**No risk of miscalculated nuclear strike – current detargeting and NPT commitments solve.**


**Boese 2007**

(Wade, Arms Control Association, “Nuclear Weapons Alert Status Debated”, Arms Control Today, December 2007, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2007_12/NuclearAlert]])

Almost all nuclear arms ...__**nuclear weapons systems.”**__

2NC
Status Gap and Adv Cp
1NR 
PTx 
2NR CP/PTX/Uniqueness on heg 





=Affirmative= 
All cites: [[mailto:ken.dejohn@gmail.com|ken.dejohn@gmail.com]]

==NOTICE== 
Depending on the tournament and the round, we will read a different combination of advantages. At NDCA, we read SSA, Deterrence, and Launch Costs.
==1AC - NDCA== 

**USC Plan Text:**
**The United States federal government should substantially increase tier 1, tier 2, and tier 3 of Operationally Responsive Space**
==SSA Advantage== 
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Current satellite infrastructure is unreliable- means we give faulty satellite information </span>
NSTAC 09 (The President’s National Aecurity Telecommunications Advisory Committee, “NSTAC Report to the President on Commercial Satellite Communications Misson Assurance,” November 2009, http://www.ncs.gov/nstac/reports/2009/NSTAC%20STF%20Report%20FINAL%2011302009.pdf)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Operators continuously and accurately track … </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">financial resources or appropriately skilled technicians.</span>


Small satellites are vital to space situational awareness
<span style="color: #000000;">Wertz, 8 - president of Microcosm, a space technology small business in Los Angeles, and the general chairman for the first five Responsive Space Conferences (James, “</span>It’s time to get our ORS in gear,” The Space Review, 1/7, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1032/1]])

What is the utility of ORS?
A few items were mentioned above. … responsive satellites are almost ideally suited to this type of task.

New tech development is key

Chai ’06 – Lt Col, USAF, Chief, CCIC2S Branch, Directorate of Requirements (Walter S, “Building a Better Space Picture,” August, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 2, Num. 3, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-060524-003.pdf]])

Today there is no single comprehensive and consistent … warﬁghters need to perform their missions effectively.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space deterrence systems increase international cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Morgan, 10 - defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">An added benefit might be to distribute … might bring more states into the conflict.12 </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Orbital slots are at a premium- demand is outpacing supply</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Jaramillo 10</span>** (Cesar, Space Security, Autumn 2010 Volume 31 Issue 3, “How Secure Was Space in 2009?”, [[http://www.ploughshares.ca/content/how-secure-was-space-2009]]//<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">)</span>//
The pool of stakeholders … civil, and military/security uses of space.


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Moreover, collision risk in GEO is at an all time high</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Abbot and Wallace 10</span>**(<span style="font-size: 8px;">Richard I, staff member in the Space Situational Awareness group. His research interests include celestial mechanics, astrodynamics, geodesy, and astrometry., Ph.D. degree in astronomy from the University of Texas at Austin. , researcher in the Earth, Atmosphere, and Planetary Sciences department at MIT, and Timothy P., staff member in the Space Situational Awareness group. He received a B.S.E.E. degree in electrical engineering from Cleveland State University, and M.S.E.E. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from Purdue University, Since joining Lincoln Laboratory he has worked in a variety of areas, including radar imaging, radar systems analysis, and optical and radar space surveillance. Recently he has concentrated on problems of satellite monitoring and identification, and he has developed algorithms for fusing photometric and radar signature information with metric observations., “Decision Support in Space Situational Awareness”, [[http://www.ll.mit.edu/publications/journal/pdf/vol16_no2/16_2_05Abbot.pdf]])</span>
The GEO belt currently … a collision threat that could not be foreseen.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">That causes space miscalculation</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Klotz 99 - Commander, Air Force Global Strike CommandFrank G. Klotz, Jan 1999, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The scramble for geosynchronous slots … global information infrastructure-is a case in point.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Extinction </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,  HYPERLINK "http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html" http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons might … the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">SSA preserves orbital slots- reduces distance between satellites and increases international cooperation</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Karl 09</span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> (</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Alex, United Nations, “ At the crossroads: the necessity for “rules of the road” for space”,</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> [[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2864.pdf]]</span>//)

<span style="color: #000000;">To tackle the problem of an increase in space traffic, … IADC Working Group and, once agreed, presentedto COPUOS.</span>








==Launch Costs Advantage== 
**They're high now**
**Coppersmith, 10** – historian of technology at Texas A&M University (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]]
__Lost in the …__ scientific opportunities.

**Small satellites will stimulate commercial launch markets and substantially lower launch costs – this is proven internationally.**
**Colón**<span style="color: #141414;">**, 10** - </span>Lt Col, USAF, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral AFS, served as the deputy commander 595th Space Group responsible for the operational testing of space and missile weapon systems until leaving for his present assignment at the Air War College (Miguel, “ DETERRENCE 2035 –THE ROLE OF TRANSPARENCY AND DIVERSITY IN A WORLD OF NANOSATS,” https://www.afresearch.org)
Third, advanced miniaturization is … __impact of the attack__

**It spills over**
**Magnuson, 7** (Stew, writes for redorbit, citing Theresa Hitchens, director of the Center for Defense Information, a Washington-based think tank.“Space on Demand”, 7/4, [[%22http://www.redorbit.com/news/sp|http://www.redorbit.com/news/space/990184/space_on_demand/index.html]], ken)//

//__The small satellites can … the road__," she said.//

//**Military ORS is key**//
//**Hoey 6** (Matthew, “Military space systems: the road ahead”, The Space Review, 2/27/2006, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1)//
//__Increases in funding … commercial space launches.__//

//**Only a firm governmental commitment to ORS solves**//
//**Felt, 10** - USAF Commander, Space Test Operations Squadron Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB, New Mexico (Eric, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” High Frontier, May, [[%22http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/|http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])

__Industry watching for … significant operational capability__.

__**Decreasing Launch costs solves resource wars**__
__**Collins and Autino, 10** - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND **Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)**__
**__The major source … for humanity are bleak.__**

extinction
Heinberg 3 **(Richard, New College of California, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, p. 230)**
**While the US has not …__most of the biosphere.__**

==Deterrence Advantage== 

**Now is key – Budget Cuts, Chinese hegemonic expansion, and PLA 2012 military doctrine shift**
**Cheng 9/14** –, Research Fellow, AsianStudies Center, 13 Year Senior Analyst at SAIC, PhD at MIT, (Dean, “Does theWhite House See the Same China DOD Does?”9/14/11, accessed 9/23 http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/09/Does-the-White-House-See-the-Same-China-DOD-Does)

__The__ Department of Defense (...__that threatens its neighbors.__



Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate
Wortzel, 8 **- Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY**
**AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)**
**__The PLA is exploring …__ in any future conflict.**


The PLA is uniquely susceptible to miscalc because of political tone-deafness, this guarantees pre-emption and is the biggest internal link to conflict
MacDonald, 11 **- Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5 /9, lexis)**

**__One characteristic of … and likely to grow.__**

__**The PLA controls the Chinese military which makes cooperation dangerous and unlikely**__
__**Cheng, 9/29**/11 - Research Fellow, Asian Studies Center (Dean, “Five Myths about China’s Space Program,” The Heritage Foundation, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/09/Five-Myths-About-Chinas-Space-Program]] CT)__
Myth #4: China’s space ...__American presence in space.__

China will weaponize space because of its imperial realist ambitions. Assuming the worst is the only way to prevent miscalc
Cooper 9**– Analyst Assistant at National Research Council (Brent, “Lost in Space: A Realist and Marxist Analysis of US Space Militarization”, http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization)**
__In international relations**…**__**of the space weaponization regime.**

China could act through terrorist proxies or rogue states to avoid retribution – they will miscalc
Rendleman, 10 **- Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)**

**The strategy to deter …__of conventional strength__.**




These vulnerabilities make chinese pre-emption likely - causes war over taiwan.
Burke, 6 **– Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])**
**__One of the most … a //fait accompli//__.45**

Just the perceived vulnerability will cause the US to preempt China – it escalates
Tellis 7 **(Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)**

**Finally, the growing … __and further misperception.__**

extinction
Straight Times 2k **(Ching Cheong, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)**
**THE high-intensity …** __destruction of civilization.__


The plan gives the US the ability to survive an attack
Rendleman, 10 **- Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)**

**This responsiveness theme … needed, activate on-orbit spares.**

**Preventing deployment of space weapons solves extinction. Weaponization causes accidental space war – causes retaliation and debris cascade, comparatively outweighs nuclear war**
Mitchell, et al 1 **-**Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, HYPERLINK "http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html" http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)
**<span style="color: #0f0f0f;">__A buildup of … conflict ever seen.__</span>**


Overtly demonstrating ORS in a transparent manner establishes effective deterrence by __denying perceived benefits__ to an attack – 7 reasons
Putman, 9 **– USAF Major, operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,**
**DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron<span style="color: #141414;"> (Christopher, “</span>Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]] ken)**
**__The U__nited __S__tates __…__ satellites against attack.”58**


Current satellites fail - a stable commitment to funding ORS is vital to future development. It solves military readiness.
Dinerman, 6 **– DOD space consultant, and senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch (Taylor, The Space Review, “Tactical IR satellites: operationally responsive spacecraft?,” 8/7, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/675/1]]**

**The __troops on …__ as a whole.**



//Readiness prevents war and maintains US heg//
//Spencer 2k **(Jack, Research Fellow at Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, “The Facts About Military Readiness”, Heritage Foundation, September 15th, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-Readiness]])**//
//**__America's national …__ thereby preserving peace.**//


//Heg access every major impact//
//Thayer 6, **Professor of Strategic Studies, - Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)**//
//**A grand strategy … prosperity it provides.**//

**Proximate visions of the future in space are critical to set a foundation for avoiding consequences in the long term**
**HUNTLEY, 10** (Wade L. Huntley, US Naval Postgraduate School; Joseph G. Bock, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Miranda Weingartner, Weingartner Consulting; “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy 26)
These prospects raise ...which are easier to identify.

==Asteroids Advantage== 

1. ISR

Traditional ISR capabilities fail – responsive satellites key to addressing modern-era instability
Sweeting 5/18
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Sir Martin, Prof @ Surrey, Director of the Surrey Space Centre, CEO of SSTL, knighted in 2002, awarded the Royal Institute of Navigation Gold Medal in recognition of the successful GIOVE-A mission for the European Galileo system, awarded the Sir Arthur Clarke Lifetime Achievement Award and named as one of the ‘Top Ten Great Britons” in 2008, awarded the Faraday Medal by the Institute of Engineering and Technology, and an Elektra Lifetime Achievement Award by the European Electronics Industry, has made and operated 34 small satellites, 2011, “Chapter 29: Affordable and Responsive Space Systems,” within Toward a Theory of Spacepower, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch29.html]], </span><span style="color: #ff0000; font-size: 10.6667px;">AB</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The concept of</span>responsive space <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">… on the globe at any given time. </span>
ORS is vital to protecting ISR assets
Sejba, 10<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]] </span><span style="color: #ff0000; font-size: 10.6667px;">AB</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Rapid Augmentation of On-Orbit Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ORS Tier 2):</span>
The US’ need for …<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> defenses offering deterrence value as well.20</span>


That is vital to our air power
Lambeth, 11<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, </span>[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]] <span style="color: #ff0000; font-size: 10.6667px;">AB</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Thus far in this discussion, … statement with great promise.4</span>


Air power is key to solve war, asteroid collisions, and natural disasters – the impact is extinction.
Warden 97 <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Col. John A Warden 111, USAF (ret.), president of Venturist, Inc., Airpower</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Confronts an Unstable World, Ed. Hallion, pp 239-240 </span><span style="color: #ff0000; font-size: 10.6667px;">AB</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Earlier in this chapter, we discussed … </span>our best hope for the future



2. SSA

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Current Data System is unreliable- means we give faulty satellite information </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NSTAC 09 (</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The President’s National Aecurity Telecommunications Advisory Committee, “NSTAC Report to the President on Commercial Satellite Communications Misson Assurance,” November 2009, http://www.ncs.gov/nstac/reports/2009/NSTAC%20STF%20Report%20FINAL%2011302009.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Operators continuously and accurately …</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> or appropriately skilled technicians.</span>


Small satellites are vital to space situational awareness
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 15.3333px;">Wertz, 8 -</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">president of Microcosm, a space technology small business in Los Angeles, and the general chairman for the first five Responsive Space Conferences (James, “</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It’s time to get our ORS in gear,” The Space Review, 1/7, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1032/1]])</span>

What is the utility of ORS? …suited to this type of task.

New tech is key

Chai ’06 – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lt Col, USAF, Chief, CCIC2S Branch, Directorate of Requirements (Walter S, “Building a Better Space Picture,” August, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 2, Num. 3, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-060524-003.pdf]])</span>

Today there is no … warﬁghters need to perform their missions effectively.

Technology for prevention exists but we need the data - SSA is key to detecting asteroids

Johnston et al 9-Steven Johnston, Associate professor at University of South Florida, Kenji Takeda, Solutions Architect and Technical Manager for the Microsoft Research Connections EMEA team, Hugh Lewis, Phd, Professor at Southampton, Simon Cox Director of the Microsoft Institute of High Performance Computing at the University of Southampton and Graham Swinerd PhD

“Cloud Computing for Planetary Defense” October 2009 [[http://www.mendeley.com/research/cloud-computing-for-planetary-defense/]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In this paper we demonstrate how a … </span>improve planetary defencs capability for all.


3. Launch Costs

They’re high now.
Coppersmith, 10 – <span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">historian of technology at Texas A&M University</span> (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]]
Lost in the attention …<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> economic as well as scientific opportunities.</span>

Small satellites will stimulate commercial launch markets and lower launch costs – this is proven internationally.
<span style="color: #000000;">Colón</span><span style="color: #101010;">, 10 - </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">Lt Col, USAF, former </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral AFS, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">served as the deputy commander 595th Space Group responsible for the operational testing of space and missile weapon systems until leaving for his present assignment at the Air War College (Miguel, “ DETERRENCE 2035 –THE ROLE OF TRANSPARENCY AND DIVERSITY IN A WORLD OF NANOSATS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]])</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">Third, advanced miniaturization is creating a … </span><span style="color: #000000;">spacecraft can be quickly replaced minimizing the impact of the attack</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Low costs spill over </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Magnuson, 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> (Stew, writes for redorbit, citing Theresa Hitchens, director of the Center for Defense Information, a Washington-based think tank.“Space on Demand”, 7/4, [[http://www.redorbit.com/news/space/990184/space_on_demand/index.html]], ken)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The small satellites can augment large, … the road," she said. </span>


Military ORS is key – it enables new launchers.
Hoey 6 (Matthew, “Military space systems: the road ahead”, The Space Review, 2/27/2006, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Increases in funding for military … programs and commercial space launches.</span>

Governmental commitment to funding is key
Felt, 10 -<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> USAF Commander, Space Test Operations Squadron Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB, New Mexico (Eric, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])</span>

Industry watching for … field significant operational capability<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">Decreasing launch costs leads to colonization – solves multiple extinction scenarios </span>
<span class="Underline">Collins and Autino, 10 - </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">* Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>
7.2. High return in safety from extra-terrestrial settlement … more important than preserving peace.

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">The impact is extinction --- high magnitude and aperiodic strikes shatter traditional considerations of “timeframe” and mean we should treat NEO threats as immanent</span>

Brownfield ‘4 - <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: [[http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Once upon a time there was a Big Bang... Cause/Effect - Cause/Effect -Cause/Effect and fifteen billion years later we have this chunk of cosmos weighing in at a couple trillion tons, screaming around our solar system, somewhere, hair on fire at a million miles a day, on course to the subjective center of the universe. </span>Left to its own fate<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- </span>on impact -- this Rock would release <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">… </span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> in favor of rational random inevitable expectation... and its attendant fear. </span>

Even small strikes have a massive impact --- economic and climatic effects are on par with nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nemchinov 8</span> (Ivan, Valery Shuvalov, and Vladimir Svetsov, Institute for Dynamics of Geospheres, Russian Academy of Sciences, Main Factors of Hazards Due to Comets and Asteroids, Catastrophic Events Caused by Cosmic Objects)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A large number of special and …</span> more important roles for modern humanity<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>
147
Undetected small objects trigger military early-warning systems, sparking accidental nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">David 2</span> (Leonard, Senior Space Writer – Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?”, 6-6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Military strategists and space scientists that wonder … and </span>detect small asteroids<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, he said.</span>

That escalates to global nuclear war
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Forrow 98</span> (Lachlan, MD, et al, “Accidental Nuclear War – A Post-Cold War Assessment”, New England Journal of Medicine, <span class="a">iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/20625/acciden_nuke_war.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Earlier assessments have … </span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">billions of</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> direct and indirect </span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">casualties worldwide</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">. </span>
==//__Politics__//== 
//Defense spending is sacred - insulated from normal budget debate//
//Politics Daily 10**[“Congress on Military Spending Cuts: Not Now, Maybe Never”, May 13, 2010, [[http://www.politicsdaily.com/2010/05/13/congress-on-military-spending-cuts-not-now-maybe-never/]]]**//

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Last week Defense … suicide to say no.__</span>
//Congress already approved ORS and it was popular – shields the link.//
//Steele 09**- Lt Col, USAF (Thomas M, 12 February 2009, AIR WAR COLLEGE AIR UNIVERSITY, “EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLES (EELV) FOR OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE” [[%22http:**//**|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA540092]])**

**ORS Present In April 2007,__…meet the combatant commanders’ responsive space requirements__.**


Congress fears satellite vulnerability – previous ORS funding proves the plan will be popular
Larrimore 07 **– Lt Col, USAF (Scott C., April 2007, AIR FORCE FELLOWS AIR UNIVERSITY, “A NEW PARADIGM OR ANOTHER FALSE START?” Advised by Dr, Richard Van Atta, Institute for Defense Analyses [[%22https://w|https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741]])//**

**//Political While the United … __initiative in 2006__ and __2007__.//**

//Kyl supports ORS//
//Larrimore 07 **– Lt Col, USAF (Scott C., April 2007, AIR FORCE FELLOWS AIR UNIVERSITY, “A NEW PARADIGM OR ANOTHER FALSE START?” Advised by Dr, Richard Van Atta, Institute for Defense Analyses [[%22https:**//**www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8df|https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741]])**

**Criticism has been…__Chinese ASAT threat__.10**

Kyl key to SKFTA-he’s currently blocking it over TAA
AFP, 11 **[“Republicans Block Free-Trade Deal With Obama”, http://www.industryweek.com/articles/republicans_block_free-trade_deal_with_obama_25000.aspx?SectionID=69]**
__A deal to push …left, for example."__


==__Addons__== 
===__Colonization__=== 

__Decreasing launch costs leads to colonization – solves multiple extinction scenarios__
__Collins and Autino, 10 **- * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)__
7.2. High return in safety … important than preserving peace.

===__**Free Trade**__=== 


**Aerospace is vital for free trade – exports nearly 40-70 percent of production**
**AIAA 09** (Aerospace Industries Association of America, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America”, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_strength_aug09.pdf)

__Government policies that …fairly in international markets.__

**Case solves the impact and is a pre-requisite to to free trade – government commitment in combination with private sector innovation overcomes export control – it’s also key to aerospace**
__**Slazer, 11** – Vice President of the Space Aerospace Industries Association, also__ Director NASA/Civil Space at Mcdonnell Douglas Corporation __(Frank, “Contributions of Space to National Imperatives”, Senate Hearing, 5/18,__ http://commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=e26b4dcb-ee2c-4ada-95fa-b996c307692d
__The U.S. military and … young workers they engendered__

==__A2: Kritiks__== 
===__Security__=== 
**Attempting to use critique to describe policy results in serial policy failure and a lack of influence. Using the current political institutions is not realism, its just** __**realistic**__ **and the only way to create change.**
**Lipshutz, 2011-**Prof of Politics at UC Santa Cruz, Prof of Politics at UC Santa Cruz, speaking after hearing a policy debate in which the affirmative read a straight up policy aff and the negative read a security criticism (Ronnie, Speaking about the final round at the California Round Robin, Feb 18, Accessed here: [[http://nfltv.org/2011/02/24/cal-round-robin-policy/]] JC)

Look, you know, ... __not being a realist.__

===A2 Psychoanalysis=== 
**<span style="color: #000000;">psychoanalysis ignores __behaviors of large groups__ which __disproves the link, cedes the political,__ and means the __alt can’t solve__. </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Volkan 3</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Vamik D. — M.D., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry University of Virginia, “PSYCHOANALYSIS IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS IN PSYCHOANALYSIS”, http://www.vamikvolkan.com/Psychoanalysis-and-International-Relations-and-International-Relations-in-Psychoanalysis.php, ken)</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Other </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">difficulties that complicate collaboration between psychoanalysts </span>____<span style="color: #000000;">…</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> the specific elements of various mass movements. </span>


==__Counterplans__== 
===Near Space CP=== 

**Doesn’t solve China war– near space is vulnerable**

**Hall 6**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Kurt D., “Near Space: Should Air Force Space Command Take Control of Its Shore?” __[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/maxwell/mp38.pdf]]__</span>__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Aron</span>__

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Despite its smaller radar cross section, </span>__...__ __a tear__ __propagating across the fabric.__

**overflight restrictions**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Tomme 5</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">—USAF Lieutenant Colonel and Ph.D. in physics [Ed Tomme, “The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space: Near-Space as a Combat Space Effects Enabler,” <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Considering the peacetime strategic level first, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">...</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> assets and UAVs will obviously never have such abilities.</span>

**New launchers are key to heg**
**Burton**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, </span>**7**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> - Lt Col. USAF [“GLOBALIZED SPACELIFT: A THREAT TO ASSURED ACCESS”, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49ad2600-7fa9-4b95-87f2-2a2376985905/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]],]</span>

__Control of the space launch market ...__ __power away from the United States__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.114 </span>

==__Disads__== 
===__Space Mil DA__=== 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This is the __only and most__ effective deterrent</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Sejba, 10</span>** - <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Times-Bold; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “</span> <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial-Black;">Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]], ken)</span>
Today, __some theorists focus and apply more punishing__ or destructive... ... __our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack__.”

Status quo X-37s are space weapons

<span class="tagChar">Lasker 10</span><span class="underline"> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">(John, Freelance Journalist, US Space Weapon Now Circling the Globe, Toward Freedom, 5/27/10, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://towardfreedom.com/home/content/view/1980/1/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">,)</span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background: fuchsia;">The X-37</span> officially <span style="background: fuchsia; mso-highlight: fuchsia;">is</span> a US Military Space Place</span> or MSP, **__and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% fuchsia;">like ... ,..</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">advocates for a new comprehensive treaty to ban all weapons in space.</span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">plan is transparent and is perceived as defending against China</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Buck 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> - Integration Manager for the NSSO Communications Functional Integration Office (COMM-FIO), and augments COMM-FIO leadership of a 200-member enterprise team of elite DoD, Intelligence Community (IC), NASA, and space & cyber industry engineers, operators & stakeholders (February 17, 2010, Darren J., “SPACE 2035: TECHNOLOGY, TRANSPARENCY, AND TRUSTED IMMUNITY,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_1a3a5809-1e22-4f94-890f-cc231da5bd28/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)</span>

One need only consider the negative international reaction to the Chinese anti-satellite... ... United States an advantage in the future international arena.55

===PGS=== 

<span style="tab-stops: 215.25pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">New developments to PGS solve the miscalc internal link </span>**</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ackerman 12</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Spencer, writer for wired.com, The Danger Room</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Jan 27, “Pentagon Confused by Its Own ‘Subs vs. Terrorists’ Plan”[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2012/01/global-strike-returns/]], ken)</span>
__But Gen. Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ... ....__ __[intercontinental ballistic missile] with a nuclear warhead.__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Non Unique: PGS now</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Matishak 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;"> (Martin, national journal, nov 14 “U.S. Army to Test 'Global Strike' Technology This Week” </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 5.0pt;">[[http://mobile.nationaljournal.com/nationalsecurity/u-s-army-to-test-global-strike-technology-this-week-20111114]]</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">, ken) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The U.S</span>. Army <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">will test</span> missile <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">tech</span>nology on Wednesday<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"> that.. ... ... </span>Missile, which could be the first such prompt-attack capability to be fielded. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">PGS now – new pentagon budget </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ackerman 12</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Spencer, writer for wired.com, The Danger Room</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Jan 27, “Pentagon Confused by Its Own ‘Subs vs. Terrorists’ Plan”[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2012/01/global-strike-returns/]], ken)</span>

__But now <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">the Pentagon’s budget</span>, unveiled Thursday, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">returns to the ... ...</span>____more <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">cruise missiles and develop</span> an undersea conventional <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">prompt strike</span> option.”__
=Negative= 


==__**Disads**__== 
===__**Space Mil 1NC**__=== 


__Obama is pursuing space cooperation and code of conduct – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization__
__Huntley, 11 - , Ph.D., senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, HYPERLINK "http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2" http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)__

__As is well understood, t... in these details.__

__The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy__
__Dant, 11 - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” HYPERLINK "http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf" http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf)__

__Cooperation for contested and competitive domain. The NSP also r... space-faring nations.__

__Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation__
__Sabathier et. al 6— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)__

__International cooperation is valuable to a ...cooperation would be more likely.__

__Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war__
__Hitchens, 8 – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, HYPERLINK "http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you"http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)__

__Perhaps of even greater ...__

__be unacceptable to all.__

__Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation__
__Krepon et al, 11 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space__
__Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, HYPERLINK "http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf" http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)__

__While some have ...of force in space.__

__War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction__
__Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh__
__(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, HYPERLINK "http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html" http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)__
__A buildup of space ... conflict ever seen.__

====__**2NC Soft Power**__==== 

**Obama’s multilateral cooperation in space maintains soft power – that’s key to heg**
**Sadeh 8** (Eligar, The Space Review, Associate Director for the Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy “ Space policy questions and decisions facing a new administration” [["|http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1146/2]] ken)
__Space represents a …__ hazardous Near Earth Objects.

==__**Counterplans**__== 
===__**Delegation**__=== 


__Delegation let’s Congress avoid backlash – it is comparatively better than the best legislative action__
__David Epstein, Department of Political Science and Stanford Graduate School of Business, Columbia and Stanford University, and Sharyn O’Hallaron, Department of Political Science and the School of International and Public Affairs and Hoover Institution, Columbia and Stanford University, January 1999 (“The Nondelegation Doctrine and the Separation of Powers” – Cardozo Law Review) p. lexis__
__Our institutional analysis ,,, mode of policymaking.__
====__**2NC Avoids politics**__==== 

**Like spending bills, lawmakers hide costs to avoid blame**
**Schoenbrod**, David //(//Trustee Professor of Law, New York Law School) **‘99** “DELEGATION AND DEMOCRACY: A REPLY TO MY CRITICS” //CARDOZO LAW REVIEW// [Vol. 20:731 1999] http://www.constitution.org/ad_state/schoenbrod.htm
Unlike Mashaw, __members …ball on lawmaking.__

**Legislatures are selfish – delegations is a tool they use to claim credit, chift blame, and gain campaign contributions**
**Schoenbrod**, David //(//Trustee Professor of Law, New York Law School) **‘99** “DELEGATION AND DEMOCRACY: A REPLY TO MY CRITICS” //CARDOZO LAW REVIEW// [Vol. 20:731 1999] http://www.constitution.org/ad_state/schoenbrod.htm
__Delegation skews Congress’s …__ harmed by delegation.

===Bahrain CP vs Loyola=== 
**Text: The United States federal government will permanently withdraw all privately owned and operated oil corporations located in Bahrain. The United States federal government will issue a public statement denouncing its relationship with the Al Khalifa regime and officially recognizing the human rights abuses committed by the regime.**

===**Adaptation CP**=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__**1NC Adaptation CP**__</span>

**Text: The United States federal government should coordinate an international implementation of a national strategy for warming adaptation to:**
**-Provide a framework for coordinating adaptation activities**
**-Create a vision for mid- to long-term perspectives for adaptation**
**-Enable informed decision-making based on information about vulnerabilities, impacts and adaptation options**
**-Raise awareness in all sectors affected**
**-Mobilize support in the country as well as from the international community**
**-Prepare the ground for appropriate institutional structures for adaptation**

**The counterplan allows us to adapt to climate change**
**GTZ 7** (Gtz climate protection program, commissioned by Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. “National strategies for adaptation to climate change” [[http://ccsl.iccip.net/adapting.pdf]], ken)
__Adaptation is a vast task,...become “living documents”.__


==__**Kritiks**__== 
===__**Anthropocentrism v Spanos**__=== 

Spanos’ ontology is anthropocentric.
Stanescu, 2006 (James, Grad Student at Binghamton, http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=974849&, TH, MT)

So thursday was the last day of my …I haven't answered your question.


This turns the case – their ontology merely expands what counts as civilized life, rather than contesting the division between human and non-human.
Stanescu, 2006 (James, Grad Student at Binghamton, http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=974849&, TH, MT)

Humanism (for Spanos) is … is one of valorization of life.


Specism must be rejected—this domination over animals is the root cause of all violence, genocide, and war—the k turns and solves the case.
Best 2007 (Dr. Stephen, Associate Professor of Department of Humanities and Philosophy @ UT-El Paso, “Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression”, MT)

In this context, Charles … ongoing pogrom against animals
===__**Subversive Ideology**__=== 


**Ideological transgression is a continuation of the existing order—the power of the protest structurally depends upon the continued authority of the system. The critique functions as a carnivalesque reversal of authority—we make a gesture of non-compliance that posits us as the “real” masters of fate.**
**Zizek 95** (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925)

__In the traditional patriarchal … with the national thing__?


**Critiques uphold the existing system because they are a safe outlet for transgression, which is a necessary supplement to any system of power.**
**Zizek 95** (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925)

The proper way to approach … (in psychoanalytic terms, with a specific form of enjoyment).


**Lacanian politics are a genuine political alternative. If it is impossible to fully represent the real, then we have no choice but to institutionalize the Lack or design politics around doubt and uncertainity. This will result in more radically democratic politics**.
**Stavrakakis, 99** (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98).

According to my reading, … __a radically transformed ethical framework.__
====__**2NC Image Link**__==== 

**Prioritizing the visual plays makes us vulnerable to totalitarianism because we are far less critical of images and its non verbal nature means that it is an individual, not shared experience.**
**McGowan 4** __PhD from Ohio State English Department (Todd, 2004, “Introduction: Psychoanalysis after Marx”, //End of Dissatisfaction? Jacques Lacan and the Emerging Society of Enjoyment//”, p. 65)__

__This belief in … “the hell of the same.”__
===__**Lacan**__=== 


**Enemies are only a product of our paranoia – the way we talk about threats as a way of avoiding reflection about the psychoanalytical roots of war**
**Stein 3** (Howard, Professor, University of Oklahoma, Journal //for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society// 8.2 (2003) 187-199 Days of Awe: September 11, 2001 and its Cultural Psychodynamics).

__**We not only** **//need//** **enemies**__ … 2001 is scarcely begun.


<span style="color: #1a1a18;">**The affirmative’s utopian vision of a peaceful global community will be** __**impossible to realize**__**—necessitating the scapegoating and elimination of the other. Lacanian political intervention is the only way out.** </span>
**Stavrakakis, 99** (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 99-100).

<span style="color: #1a1a18;"><span style="color: #000000;">__Our age is clearly …__</span> society as a highly problematic area (seminar of 18 June 1958).</span>
====__**2NC Framework**__==== 

**Our interpretation---the judge should assume the position of an analyst---interrogating the aff’s psychological investment in the politics of the status quo is a prior question to their advantages and solvency**
**Zizek 2k** – prof @ University of Ljubljana (Slavoj, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality, 124-127)
Now I can also answer the … __towards the Real.__
====Warming Link==== 

**Environmental policy is co-opted by collective myopia rooted in our psyche – turns case**
**Sewall 95** (Laura, perceptual psychologist, “The Skill of EcologicalPerception”[[%22http://www.alastairmcintosh.com/general/verene|, pdf]], ken)
I take David Abram's ... __the environmental crisis.__

=__Specific Rounds__= 

==St. Marks== 
===Round 1 vs GBS HJ=== 
Climate monitoring aff
1NC: T-of, Psycho, Delegations, China Bashing, Case (with ice age turn)
2NC: Psycho
1NR: Case
2NR: Psycho+case

===Round 4 vs HoFlo CG=== 
SPS aff
1NC: Space Mil, ptx china bashing, delegations, psycho, t-of, case
2NC: Space mil, heg turns
1nr: Warming flow
2NR: space mil and case

===Round 6 vs Shawnee Mission East CH=== 
BMD aff
1NC: psycho, T-of, space mil, ORS/CoC CP, china bashing, delegations, case
2NC: T, case, delegations, ORS CP
1NR: Space mil, ptx
2NR: ptx/delegation

==Meadows== 
===__**Round 2 – CPS GY**__=== 

Deep Space Climate Monitoring
1NC: Psycho, delegations, ptx, T –of, Aspec, T-humans, case w/ ice age turn
2NC: Solar flares flow, psycho
1NR: Warming flow
2NR: Psycho

===__**Round 4 – Sage Ridge CL**__=== 

ORS aff
1NC: hlv pic, t-mesosphere, t-of, ptx, delegations, psycho
2nc: hlv, delegations, t-mesosphere, case
1nr: ptx.
2nr: hlv pic
===__**Round 5 – Brophy MS**__=== 


SPS aff
1nc: psycho, space mil, t of, t its, aspec, case
2nc: t of, solvency, space mil
1nr: no war, warming, x37b CP
2nr: space mil and case

===Octos Vs Woodward SS=== 
1NC: Psycho, Kepler DA, ptx, delegations, aspec, t-of
2nr: psycho

==USC== 
===Round 2 - Lone Peak MS=== 
SSP
1nc: psycho, t-of, ptx, delegations, space mil, x37b CP, case
2nc: t, ptx, space mil, delegations
1nr: case
2nr, smil and case

===Round 3 - Sage Ridge GL=== 
ORS
1nc: t-of, psycho, delegations, china bashing, space mil, hlv pic, de-dev was on case
2nc: t, delegations, case
1nr: ptx
2nr: t

===Round 5 - Brophy HS=== 
SPS aff
1nc: space mil, t of, delegations, x37b, psycho, ptx
2nc: ptx, space mil, x37b, t
1nr: delegations, no war, solvency, warming
1ar: 5 min of condo
2nr: ...

===Doubles vs St. Vincent De Paul=== 
D and G cosmic egg aff
1nc: psycho, "the" pic, t
2nr: "the" pic


==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Alta</span>== 

===Round 1 vs Skyview=== 
**SBL aff**
**1NC: psycho, ptx, space mil, ORS CP**
**2NC: case, K**
**1NR: CP, space mil**
**2NR: K**

===Round 4 vs Bingham=== 
Climate Monitoring Aff
**1NC: psycho, delegations, PTC, aspec, t-dev, adaptation CP**
**2NC: both CPs, case**
**1NR: ptx**
**2NR: adaptation CP and ptx**

===**Round 6 vs Rowland Hall**=== 
**1NC: Near Space CP, Cyber Ptx, Lacan, Aspec, Delegations**
**2NC: Near space, case**
**1NR: ptx**
**2NR: near space**

===**Round 7 vs Loyola**=== 
SPS oil ethics aff
**1NC: Coop DA w/ warming impact, Bahrain CP, cap K, T mesosphere, FW, Launches DA**
**2NC: Coop DA, CP, case**
**1NR: cap K**
**2NR: DA, CP, case**

===Octos vs College Prep=== 
Climate Monitoring aff
1NC: T dev, Environmental catastrophe K, ptx, adaptation CP, aspec
2NC: CP, case
1NR: ptx
2NR: CP ptx

===Quarters vs Bingham=== 
Climate Monitoring aff
1NC: Psycho, Adaptation CP, Sequastion CP, ptx
2NC: Adapt CP, case
1NR: ptx
2NR: CP ptx

==Golden Desert== 

===**Round 2 vs Marist**=== 
Space Corps AFf
1NC - Psycho, PTX, Space Mil, T-Development
Block - PTX, Space Mil, Case
2NR - PTX, Case

===**Round 3 vs Skyview**=== 
**Cosmopolitanism Aff**
1NC - Subversive Ideology, Consult Nato, ASPEC, PTX
**Block - K, Consult**
**2NR - K**

===**Round 6 vs Bingham**=== 
**SPS Aff**
1NC - Psycho, stratosolar CP, PTX, T - Mesosphere, Orbital Slots

===**Doubles - Sioux Falls**=== 
**Space Shuttle Aff**

1NC - Psycho, PTX, T-Of, ASPEC, Delegations CP, Consult Nato, T Increase, Death Choice
Block - K, NATO
2NR - K


==Blake== 
===**Round 1 - Rosefield**=== 
**Space Elevator Aff**
1NC - Inflatable Elevator CP, PTX, Psycho, Delegations, T - Of
Block - Psycho, PTX
2NR - Psycho

===**Round 4 - GBS**=== 
**Brilliant Pebbles Aff**

1NC - Psycho, Space Mil, Delegations CP, PTC
**Block - Space Mil, Case, PTX**
**2NR - Space Mil, Case**
===**Round 6 - Stratford**=== 
**ORS Aff**

1NC - Near Space CP, PTX, Psycho, SSA/ORS CP
**Block - Near Space CP, PTX**
**2NR - Near Space**
===**Round 7 - Iowa City**=== 
**Asteroid Mining Aff**

**1NC - ORS CP, PTC, Psycho**
**Block - PTC, ORS CP**
**2NR - PTC**


==NDCA== 
===Round 2 - Jesuit Prep (SPS)=== 
Coop and Pan advs

1NC: psycho, weather manip DA, slots DA, stratosolar, t-its, interference DA, debris DA
2NC: weather, strato, interference
1NR: slots, pan
2NR: weather, strato, intereference


===Round 4 - Greenhill PS (Weather Mod)=== 
warming, debris, ozone

1NC: psycho, delegations w/ aspec, JV, nato, T human
2NC: delegation w/ aspec and T
1NR: ptx
2NR: aspec

===Round 6 - GDS HM (Solaris)=== 
scifi aff

1NC: nato w/ k nb, delegation , JV, t human, FW, heg da, psycho K
2NC: case , ptx, NATO
1NR: psycho
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">2NR: psycho</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Round 7 - Woodward SN (Mars Col)</span>
frontier and col advs

1NC: JV, Delegations, T spaces, aspec, psycho, space mil
2NC: space mil, both case flows, delegations,
1NR: ptx
2NR: ptx and case

===Doubles - GBS SW (Solar Sails)=== 
Heg, colonization, warming, ozone

1nc: nato, psycho, delegation, JV, t human
2NC: K
1NR: Nato
2nr nato












[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: 51972px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This is the __only and most__ effective deterrent</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: 51972px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Sejba, 10</span>** - <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Times-Bold; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “</span> <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial-Black;">Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]], ken)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: 51972px; width: 1px;">Today, __some theorists focus and apply more punishing__ or destructive</span>