[[toc]]
=1AC- Women In Space= 



==**Observation 1: Inherency**== 
**The Lovelace women astronaut program was cancelled in the early 1960’s. It was cancelled because NASA wanted women to go home and take care of the family entrenching the patriarchal mindset.**
**Weitekamp, 2004** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Margaret A. Weitekamp, Right Stuff, Wrong Sex: America's First Women in Space Program, pg 2-5, 2004, mcmc </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cobb's publicity photo captured a telling moment…. the development of the United States' manned space program.</span>

**When the women asked congress why the program was shut down, congress mocked them. The only reason women aren’t in space is the blatant patriarchal mindset.**
**ACKMANN, 2005** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">MARTHA ACKMANN, GUEST COLUMNIST, Tuesday, July 12, 2005, “ Women Rose Above NASA’s Sexist Attitude, Seattle Pi, http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Women-rose-above-NASA-s-sexist-attitude-1178156.php, 27 June 2011, CL</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1961, 13 crackerjack women pilots secretly traveled… long time. The Mercury 13 opened the door.</span>


**The patriarchal mindset continues today, women are still barred from substantive space travel.**
**Neibur 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Susan M. Niebur, Discovery Program Scientist, Solar System Exploration Division, Code SE, Office of Space Science, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Niebur Consulting, 418 Hillsboro Drive, Silver Spring, MD 20902, USA, Available online 17 October 2009, Space Policy 25 (2009) 257e263, www.elsevier.com/locate/spacepol</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Only one of NASA’s planetary science…. still underrepresented in mission leadership at NASA.</span>

==**Observation 2: Impacts**== 
**Taking down patriarchy is the first step to take down militarism. Both patriarchy and militarism use domination to achieve their goals. Both lead to violence and war.**
**Steans 98,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jill Steans, Senior Lecturer in International Relations Theory , Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, Gender and International Relations: An Introduction, 1998 p. 116-117</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, feminist analysis suggests…. </span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">violence, oppression and threats to their security be fully under­stood</span>

**Patriarchy in space spills over to other aspects of social life. Domination furthers domination leading to racism, classism, heterosexism and legitimizes an ideology that will further these problems.**
Durazo 2006<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ana Clarissa Rojas Durazo, The Medicalization of Domestic Violence 180-181, 2006</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is particularly dangerous to women… it also produces ideology that legitimates it. </span>

**Seeing women as “other” justifies domination and the use of violence in order to control them.**
<span class="cite">PETERSON 2000 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">V</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Spike Peterson, Assc. Prof of PoliSci @ U of Arizona, //SAIS REVIEW,// “Rereading Public and Private: The Dichotomy that is Not One.” Vol. 20, Iss. 2; pg. 11, 2000</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Similarly, a categorical separation of insiders… reproduces the objectification of “women, native, other.” </span>


Women are just as good as men at exploring space. There is no capability lost with the inclusion of able women.
Casper and Moore ’95 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Monica J. Casper is a professor of Social and Behavioral Sciences and Women and Gender Studies, New College of Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences, Arizona State University; and Lisa Jean Moore, PH.D., MPH is a Professor of Sociology and Gender Studies @ School of Natural and Social Sciences. “INSCRIBING BODIES, INSCRIBING THE FUTURE: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space.” Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 38, No. 2 (Summer, 1995), pp. 311-333. Date Accessed: 7/1/2011. A.P. http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/1389295.pdf?acceptTC=true</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Female astronauts thus have dual pressures operating on them… we explore more explicitly some key linkages between discourses of gender and sexuality</span>


**Western culture feels the need to control women, pushing them into domestic roles instead of roles that involve exploration, innovation, and discovery. By giving women equal opportunities in space, that control is lost.**
**Lathers 2001** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marie Lathers, professor in humanities and French at Case Western Reserve University, Gravity is one more way to keep women in their place”, Times Higher Education, December 21, 2001, http://www.timeshighereducation.co.uk/story.asp?storyCode=166342§ioncode=26</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The answer to Cobb's question lies beyond a fear of castration, however… feminism may provide a way out of the essentialism that bottles us up</span>__.__

==**Observation 3: PLAN**== 
**THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS DEVELOPMENT OF THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN SPACE BEYOND THE MESOSPHERE.**


= = 
==**Observation 4: Solvency**== 
**By forcing the government to increase the role of women in space exploration through a feminist perspective, we get rid of the belief that men are more valuable that females.**
**REARDON, 1993**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Betty Reardon, Consultant to the TCPEC and Founding Director Emeritus, Leading theorist, and designer of pedagogic materials and processes in peace education, initiator and the first Academic Coordinator of the Hague Appeal for Peace Global Campaign for Peace Education 40 years of experience in the international peace education movement and 25 years in the international movement for the human rights of women. She has served as a consultant to several UN agencies and education organizations and has published widely in the field of peace and human rights education, and women’s issues. __Women and peace: feminist visions of global security,__ 17-18, 1993, mcmc</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The connections among peace, equality, and development… share equality of opportunity and freedom” (Cagan, 1983, p. 94). </span>

**Women have different ideas and perspectives than men. The plan values their perspectives and ideas just as much as they would a man’s. This is key to solve for peace and security.**
**REARDON, 1993**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Betty Reardon, Consultant to the TCPEC and Founding Director Emeritus, e has served as a consultant to several UN agencies and education organizations and has published widely in the field of peace and human rights education, and women’s issues. __Women and peace: feminist visions of global security,__ 18-19, 1993, mcmc</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Women’s perspectives on peace are as rich… liberation and full equality as essential to human security.</span>


**Western society keeps women tied to earth as the nurturers and life givers while the men go off and explore space. The plan removes these social customs and grants women the right to do what they want without being judged.**
**LATHERS, 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marie Lathers, professor in humanities and French at Case Western Reserve University, __Space Oddities: Women and Outer Space in Popular Film and Culture, 1960-2000,__ 2010, 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This study poses the Women in space as a problem… encouraged real women to stay at home.</span>

**NASA creates excuses that keep women out of space. The plan forces NASA to break patriarchy in space.**
**LATHERS, 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marie Lathers, professor in humanities and French at Case Western Reserve University, __Space Oddities: Women and Outer Space in Popular Film and Culture, 1960-2000,__ 2010, 5</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Popular culture's coming to terms with the possibility of inter-planetary… space has slowly emerged over the decades as a feasible candidate for science fiction Elms.</span>


**Women deserve every right that a man has and vise versa. Even if we can’t solve for all oppression, the plan is still a crucial step in achieving new space for problem solving.**
**CAMPBELL 1980** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">KarlynKohrs Campbell, “Stanton’s ‘The Solitude of Self:” A Rationale for Feminism,” Quarterly Journal of Speech, 66 (1980). 304-12.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reformers, especially those who seek significant… result in precious little change, but how precious that little.</span>