===== ===== 
[[toc]]
=Logistics= 
**Affirmative Cites: Tucker Boyce - [[mailto:tuckerboyce@gmail.com|tuckerboyce@gmail.com]]**
**Negative Cites: Anushka Panday - [[mailto:anushkapanday@gmail.com|anushkapanday@gmail.com]]**
**Coach: Adam Smiley - [[mailto:asmiley27@gmail.com|asmiley27@gmail.com]]**
**[[http://www.RaiderDebate.com/|http://www.RaiderDebate.com]]**

=Affirmative= 
==LSP== 
===Japan Space Race (Wake)=== 
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Growing number of Japanese organizations are looking towards LSP projects – Japanese earthquake and energy strategy</span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">EcoBusiness 7/12/11</span>**-- Asia Business Magazine(“ Is ‘Luna Ring’ the energy solution or looney pipe dream?” [[http://www.eco-business.com/news/is-luna-ring-the-energy-solution-or-looney-pipe-dream/]])
When Tetsuji Yoshida first unveiled a revolutionary plan …continue to do the research, we think there’s a huge chance this could become reality.”

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Japanese LSP on the moon precludes US Space Dominance:</span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">1 - Japanese LSP would control key moon real estate, moon energy infrastructure, and ensure Japanese lunar resource exploitation</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Shimizu Corp June 2011** (“Lunar Solar Power Generation: The Energy Paradigm Shift Opens the Door to a Sustainable Society” <http://www.shimz.co.jp/english/theme/dream/lunaring.html>, Shimizu is lead Japanese organization aiming to build LSP on moon)</span>
A shift from economical use of limited resources to the…solar cells from lunar resources and installing them.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">2 - Energy provided by LSP system is the lynchpin for moon control – first one to build controls future colonization, exploration, science stations, and inter-solar travel </span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Ignatiev et al 2001** -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd) </span>
Energy is fundamental to<span class="Underline"> nearly everything that humans…</span> electrical energy needed for the development <span class="Underline">of space. </span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">3 - The Moon, specifically the South Pole, is the lynchpin of the system and solar system development overall. The pole is key to minerals, others are going for the Moon now.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Whitehouse** 8-9 [Dr. David Whitehouse “scientist, writer and broadcaster. He has a doctorate in Astrophysics from Jodrell Bank. Was BBC Science correspondent 1988 - 2006. He has won numerous awards as well as European Internet Journalist of the Year.”; “Returning the Moon”; 8/9/2011; http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/dr-david-whitehouse/return-to-the-moon_b_953061.html; ahs]</span>
Just as the United States is turning away from the…strategic analysis, the Moon base sits at the heart of a sensible solar system exploration plan.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">We have the tech now for LSP.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Criswell 3** [Testimony of Dr. David R. Criswell (prof at the University of Houston and expert on LSP) at Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space Hearings: "Lunar Exploration" Thursday, November 6, 2003, 2:30 PM </span><span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">�</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> SR-253; http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=10926; Boyce]</span>
The Lunar Solar Power (LSP) System does not require…oversee the lunar machinery and maintain the LSP System__.__

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Even the perception of U.S. losing the moon undermines international leadership</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Vorenberg 08 -** Sue Vorenberg,Reported on new science and technology developments across New Mexico. Covered health issues and breaking news on a variety of topics, “Scientists: U.S. power at stake in space race,” Feb 12, 2008, </span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.santafenewmexican.com/Local%20News/Space-Technology-and-Applications-International-Forum-Scientist]]</span>
The underlying political message of space exploration …remember that exploration almost always leads to greater wealth."

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">We isolate 2 impact scenarios:</span>**</span>
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">A.) Hegemony:</span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lunar dominance is critical to overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key </span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Spudis 10** – Paul D. Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, 2010, “The New Space Race,” online: </span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf]]</span>
In one of his early speeches defending the Apollo program, President John F. Kennedy…we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.

**Heg solves global power wars and specific conflicts**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kagan 07 Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (</span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10|http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">)]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>Americans have <span class="Underline">… under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt.</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">B.) Lunar Resources</span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lunar Exploration and Settlements are key to He3 mining and US Space Leadership</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Jeffrey 5/26** (Terrence P Jeffrey, Editor in Chief of CNS News, “Former Moon Astronaut and Senator: U.S. Should Settle Moon and Mars” http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/former-moon-astronaut-and-senator-us-sho, 5/26/2011)</span>
He now believes <span class="Underline">America’s political leadership, and </span>…is a literally ideal fuel for nuclear fusion reactors.”

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Controlling Moon resources key to avoid resource wars.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Lasker 10** (John Lasker, Freelance Journalist-Major contributor for magazines (eg. Wired & Christian Science Monitor), "Technoir", http://www.godlikeproductions.com/forum1/message1363174/pg1, 4/3/2010)</span>
Back <span class="Underline">in 1998, representatives</span> from Halliburton and Shell…a resource war that ends the human race

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Resource wars cause extinction</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Klare 6** (Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)</span>
<span style="color: black;">It's official: </span><span class="Underline">the era of resource wars is upon us</span><span style="color: black;">. In a major London address, British Defense Secretary John Reid warned …comments indicate, no society, however affluent, will escape involvement in these forms of conflict.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Risk Calculus (Wake/Hooch)**</span>=== 
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Extinction is inevitable from expanding sun, asteroids, warming, or disease if we don’t get off the rock</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Austen, 11** [Ben Austen, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]</span>
<span class="Underline">Earth won’t always be fit for occupation</span>. We know that …<span class="Underline"> but there will be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Jason G. **Matheny**, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, 200**7** (“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm, Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
As for astronomical risks, <span class="Underline">to escape our sun's death</span>, humanity<span class="Underline">…fundamentally about </span>**__the survival of the species__**."

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">LSP allows for colonization of moon and outer space</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Bekey et al 2000**, Criswell, Friedman, Greenwood, Miller -- Professors of Aeronautics and Space Development @ USC, Univ. Houston, Univ. Oklahoma (<http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2000-FinalReport-AutonomousConstructionAndManufacturing.pdf>, " AUTONOMOUS CONSTRUCTION AND MANUFACTURING FOR SPACE ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM", NASA and NSF Report)</span>
<span class="Underline">Energy is fundamental to nearly everything that humans would like …</span> to fabricate solar cells on location.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Human colonization is feasible – but a robotic outpost is needed.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Schrunk et al. 7** – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, pp. 80-81, p. SpringerLink)</span>
As shown in the previous chapters, __t__he Moon has the energy…in the south polar region is an excellent location for the first lunar base.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">LSP is critical for the future colonization of the moon and future planets -- self-sustaining energy source</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Ignatiev et al 2001** -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)</span>
The long term exploration and colonization of the solar system … fabrication of more solar cells.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Nick **Bostrom**, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 200**9** Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html, Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-right region of figure 2. </span><span class="Underline">For any fixed probability, </span>existential risks are<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span>more serious than other …<span class="Underline"> certainly larger than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[13]</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Catastrophic impacts pale in comparison to existential ones — their impacts are recoverable setbacks while ours end the game.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Nick **Bostrom**, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 200**9** (“The Future of Humanity,” Geopolitics, History and International Relations, Volume 9, Issue 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library, Reprinted Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/papers/future.pdf, Accessed 07-06-2011, p. 11)</span>
Extinction risks constitute an especially severe subset of what could … massacre for man, a small misstep for mankind.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Technology exists to build a robotic outpost on the Moon – technology to transport humans will be developed in the process</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Schrunk et al. 7** – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, pp. 80-81, p. SpringerLink)</span>
4.10 LAUNCH VEHICLE CAPABILITY While no system is currently …permanent human habitation.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Moral side constraint to colonize- extinction on earth is inevitable from asteroids and beyond.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Ragheb 11** (5/5/2011, Magdi Ragheb, Associate Professor of nuclear, plasma, and radiological engineering, Ph.D. Nuclear Engineering, “Nuclear And Plasma Space Propulsion,” https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20402%20ME%20405%20Nuclear%20Power%20Engineering/Nuclear%20and%20Plasma%20Space%20Propulsion.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In their role as stewards of life on Earth and perhaps in the whole known universe, </span>humans have a duty…that could extinguish life on Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Worldview (Wake)**</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">We need a new approach to living – we must consider the economic, political, and socio-cultural ramifications by integrating all of social sciences to save humanity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Pass 6** (Jim, 09-21</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">The proposal offered here will change societies around AND </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">in the study of the latter four categories.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Even if the tech fails, astrosociology is critical to the survival of humanity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Pass 6** (Jim, 09-21</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Even though the study of social effects receives AND </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">allowing nature to make such decisions for us.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Re-evaluation of scenario planning is key.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Pass 6** (Jim, 09-21</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Detection: </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Eventually, the detection AND </span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">of living, and characteristic ways of life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Our demand for a change in societal consciousness would be like the Overview Effect – binding societies and Earth together in human unity. Our position as the USFG is key to preventing extinction – no K’s.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Pass 6** (Jim, 09-21AND </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Positive benefits may result from potential disaster. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">AND a killer asteroid or comet head our way.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Our project is key to reinvigorating the public sphere and reenergizing thought and societal consciousness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gangale and Dudley-Flores, 7</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Thomas, Executive Director, OPS-</span>20 September 2007, Long Beach, Californi]
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The citizen space community is small, fractured </span>AND we are merely a space-capable civilization.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Our framework is essential to theirs – social science informs policy analysis</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Pass 6** (Jim, 09-21</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">The contribution of social scientists lies in the AND that maintain a healthy respect for the differences. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Plan creates this mindset shift -- going to the moon causes a mass Overview Effect, which unifies humanity and results in peace</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Krukin ‘8** (1/1/2k8, Jeff Krukin, Award-winning leadership applied to space, suborbital aviation, and aero ecosystem strategic business consulting, executive director of the Space Frontier Foundation (SFF), IBM Systems Engineer at NASA’s Johnson Space Center, contributor to NASA’s space exploration plan and US Department of Commerce/Office of Space Commercialization strategic plan, “The Healing Power of Space (aka, “The Overview Effect”)” [[http://www.jeffkrukin.com/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=27]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">If you aren't familiar with "The Overview AND imagine you've never read anything quite like this.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Going to space solves the K- it frees us from the indulgences of the world</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Frank **White**, 19**87** author of six books about ISBN 0395430844, p. 182-183)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">For the prisoners in the cave, the AND longer plead ignorance of what is truly possible.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Technological goals are not always bad** -- .</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Frank **White**, author of six books about space exploration, founder of the Overview Effect Institute, frequently speaks at conferences about space exploration, holds a B.A. from Harvard College and an M.Phil. from Oxford University, 19**87** (“Overview Systems,” //The Overview Effect: Space Exploration and Human Evolution//, Published by Houghton Mifflin Company, ISBN 0395430844, p. 82-84)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Human systems are among the most sophisticated organizational AND a social system, thereby supporting its evolution.</span>

===Space Race (Hooch)=== 
**There’s a race to the Moon now:**

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">First, Growing number of Japanese organizations are looking towards LSP projects – Japanese earthquake and energy strategy</span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">EcoBusiness 7/12/11</span>**-- Asia Business Magazine(“ Is ‘Luna Ring’ the energy solution or looney pipe dream?” [[http://www.eco-business.com/news/is-luna-ring-the-energy-solution-or-looney-pipe-dream/]])
When Tetsuji Yoshida first unveiled a revolutionary plan …continue to do the research, we think there’s a huge chance this could become reality.”

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Second, Even the perception of U.S. losing the moon undermines international leadership</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Vorenberg 08 -** Sue Vorenberg,Reported on new science and technology developments across New Mexico. Covered health issues and breaking news on a variety of topics, “Scientists: U.S. power at stake in space race,” Feb 12, 2008, </span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.santafenewmexican.com/Local%20News/Space-Technology-and-Applications-International-Forum-Scientist]]</span>
The underlying political message of space exploration …remember that exploration almost always leads to greater wealth."

**The plan is key:**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">A. Energy provided by LSP system is the lynchpin for moon control – first one to build controls future colonization, exploration, science stations, and inter-solar travel</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Ignatiev et al 2001** -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)</span>
Energy is fundamental to<span class="Underline"> nearly everything that humans…</span> electrical energy needed for the development <span class="Underline">of space.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">**B.** **Japanese LSP would control key moon real estate, moon energy infrastructure, and ensure Japanese lunar resource exploitation**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Shimizu Corp June 2011** (“Lunar Solar Power Generation: The Energy Paradigm Shift Opens the Door to a Sustainable Society” <http://www.shimz.co.jp/english/theme/dream/lunaring.html>, Shimizu is lead Japanese organization aiming to build LSP on moon)</span>
A shift from economical use of limited resources to the…solar cells from lunar resources and installing them.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">C. The Moon, specifically the South Pole, is the lynchpin of the system and solar system development overall. The pole is key to minerals, others are going for the Moon now.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Whitehouse** 8-9 [Dr. David Whitehouse “scientist, writer and broadcaster. He has a doctorate in Astrophysics from Jodrell Bank. Was BBC Science correspondent 1988 - 2006. He has won numerous awards as well as European Internet Journalist of the Year.”; “Returning the Moon”; 8/9/2011; http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/dr-david-whitehouse/return-to-the-moon_b_953061.html; ahs]</span>
Just as the United States is turning away from the…strategic analysis, the Moon base sits at the heart of a sensible solar system exploration plan.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">We have the tech now for LSP.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Criswell 3** [Testimony of Dr. David R. Criswell (prof at the University of Houston and expert on LSP) at Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space Hearings: "Lunar Exploration" Thursday, November 6, 2003, 2:30 PM </span><span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">�</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> SR-253; http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=10926; Boyce]</span>
The Lunar Solar Power (LSP) System does not require…oversee the lunar machinery and maintain the LSP System.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">We isolate 3 impact scenarios:</span>**</span>

**A.) Independently, Transition from US dominance causes conflict– China.**
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Friedburg 2011** (July/August, Aaron L., professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics, The National Interest, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">THE UNITED States and the ... often been marked by war</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">B.) Hegemony:</span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lunar dominance i<span style="font-size: 12px;">s critical</span> to overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Spudis 10** – Paul D. Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, 2010, “The New Space Race,” online: </span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf]]</span>
In one of his early speeches defending the Apollo program, President John F. Kennedy…we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.

**Heg solves global power wars and specific conflicts**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kagan 07 Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (</span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10|http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">)]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative<span style="color: black;">, </span></span>Americans have <span class="Underline">… under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt.</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">C.) Lunar Resources</span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lunar Exploration and Settlements are key to He3 mining and US Space Leadership</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Jeffrey 5/26** (Terrence P Jeffrey, Editor in Chief of CNS News, “Former Moon Astronaut and Senator: U.S. Should Settle Moon and Mars” http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/former-moon-astronaut-and-senator-us-sho, 5/26/2011)</span>
He now believes <span class="Underline">America’s political leadership, and </span>…is a literally ideal fuel for nuclear fusion reactors.”

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Controlling Moon resources key to avoid resource wars.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Lasker 10** (John Lasker, Freelance Journalist-Major contributor for magazines (eg. Wired & Christian Science Monitor), "Technoir", http://www.godlikeproductions.com/forum1/message1363174/pg1, 4/3/2010)</span>
Back <span class="Underline">in 1998, representatives</span> from Halliburton and Shell…a resource war that ends the human race

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Resource wars cause extinction</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Klare 6** (Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)</span>
<span style="color: black;">It's official: </span><span class="Underline">the era of resource wars is upon us</span><span style="color: black;">. In a major London address, British Defense Secretary John Reid warned …comments indicate, no society, however affluent, will escape involvement in these forms of conflict.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Plan Texts**</span>=== 
**<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should develop a Lunar Solar Power system on the Earth's Moon.</span>**

**<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should develop a Lunar Solar Power system on the Earth's single Moon.</span>**

=Negative= 
==Strategies/Intel== 
===Wake Forest=== 
====**Round 1 vs. Westminster BH (SPS)**==== 
1NC: T - it's/of, Politics DA (TAA), ESA CP, Militarization Bad, Case - Defense
2NC: Militarization Bad, Case - Defense
1NR: T it's/of
2NR: Militarization Bad, Case - Defense

====**Round 4 vs. Niles West NL (SPS)**==== 
1NC: T - it's/of, Politics DA, (TAA), ESA CP, Militarization Bad, Case - Defense
2NC: Militarization Bad, Case - Defense
1NR: Politics DA (TAA)
2NR: Militarization Bad, Case - Defense

====**Round 5 vs. Niles West PT (Ufology)**==== 
1NC: T - substantially increase, T - USFG, T - beyond, ESA CP, Politics DA (TAA), Right Wing Takeover K, Case - Defense
2NC: T - substantially increase, ESA CP, Politics DA (TAA), Case -Defense
1NR: Right Wing Takeover K
2NR: ESA CP, Right Wing Takeover K

====**Doubles vs. Pace ES (ORS)**==== 
1NC: T - it's/of, Politics DA (TAA), Privatization CP, Militarization Bad, Case - Defense
2NC: Militarization Bad
1NR: Militarization Bad, Case - Defense
2NR: Militarzation Bad, Case - Defense
===Chattahoochee=== 
====**Round 1 vs. Westminster FO (SPS)**==== 
1NC: T it's/of, ESA CP, Politics DA (TAA), Heg Bad, Case - Defense
2NC: ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case - Defense
1NR: Politics DA (TAA)
2NR: ESA CP, Politics DA (TAA), Case - Defense

====**Round 3 vs. Johns Creek KT (Female Space Mission)**==== 
1NC: NASA Resignation CP, Intersectionality K, Fiscal Discipline DA, Politics DA (TAA - Warming Impact), Case - Defense & Specific Offense
2NC: NASA Resignation CP, Intersectionality K (Case Turn)
1NR: Politics DA (TAA), Case - Defense & Specific Offense
2NR: NASA Resignation CP, Intersectionality K (Case Turn), Politics DA (TAA), Case - Defense

====**Round 5 vs. Dunwoody GH (EOS)**==== 
1NC: ESA CP, Politics DA (TAA), Foreign Aid Adv CP, Weather Channel K, Case - Defense
2NC: Weather Channel K (Case Turn), Foreign Aid Adv CP
1NR: Politics DA (TAA), Case - Defense
2NR: Foreign Aid Adv CP, Weather K (Case Turn)

====**Quarters vs. Woodward DS (JWST)**==== 
1NC: T increase, Politics DA (TAA), STEM CP, ESA-CSA Alternative Funding CP, Case - Defense
2NC: STEM CP, ESA-CSA Alternative Funding CP, Case - Defense
1NR: Politics DA (TAA)
2NR: ESA-CSA Alternative Funding CP, Politics DA (TAA)

==Cites== 
===Kritiks=== 
====**Right Wing Takeover K**==== 
=====**1NC Shell**===== 
**The affirmative’s strategy is not political. Instead it is a strategy against politics. This undermines the possibility of liberation.**
**Grossberg, 1992** (Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 278-279)
Finally, the frontier itself is transformed…., separated from any ability to act.

**Failure to engage in the political process will result in the takeover by the extreme right, leading to discrimination and war worldwide**
**Rorty 98** – professor emeritus of comparative literature and philosophy, by courtesy, at Stanford University (Richard, “ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America”, 1998, pg. 89-94)
Many writers on socioeconomic policy have warned … as evanescent and insistent as a resourceful spook."10

**The alternative is to vote negative to engage politics**
**Institutional approaches are the only way to avoid the collapse of all movements and effectively challenge the flawed state policies.**
**Grossberg, 199**2 (Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 388-389)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The demand for moral and ideological purity … even if they are impure and compromised.</span>

=====**2NC Overview**===== 
**Policy change is necessary to alleviate real and on-going suffering. Abstract claims of “epistemology” and “ontology” and non-impacts like “technological rationality” are ivory-tower constructions that condemn millions to death**
**Jarvis 00** (Darryl, Senior Lecturer in International Relations – University of Sydney, International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism, p. 128-130)
While Ashley's rhetoric serves to effect a number of political moves, … ontological dilemmas that otherwise seem to preoccupy Ashley."

=====**Grassroots Fails**===== 
**Grassroots activism fails – it is poorly structured and cannot fully inform people, destroying movements.**
**Stoker 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Professor of Politics, University of Manchester (Gerry, “WHY POLITICS MATTERS: MAKING DEMOCRACY WORK”, 2006, Pg. 114-115)</span>
There can be little doubt that the democratic world … one that they can take up or leave as they please.

=====**Environment Impact**===== 
**The only way to address the environment is by engaging in international political reforms.**
**Grossberg, 1992** (Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 305-306)
For example, ecology as a political struggle is … the only political realm that can matter.

**Extinction**
**Diner 94** (David N., Judge Advocate General’s Corps of US Army Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, LN)JFS
No species has ever dominated its fellow species … humankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

=====**AT: Perm**===== 
**The desire for pure politics undermines a litany of meaningful possibilities at overcoming domination. The alternative alone is best.**
**Grossberg, 1992** (Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 396)
Above all, rethinking the possibility of a Left politics … An impure politics fighting for high stakes.

====**Intersectionality K**==== 
=====**1NC Shell**===== 
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000;">A. The aff’s use of Over-Inclusion does not take into account other identities. The idea that it is a 'womyn’s problem’ is a simplistic notion that does not lead to substantial change and forces the intervention to fail</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-align: justify;">**Crenshaw 2003** Kimberle Crenshaw. (Professor of Law and UCLA) “The intersectionality of Race and Gener discrimination” November 2003 http://www.isiswomen.org/womenet/lists/apgr-list/archive/doc00009.doc</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-align: justify;">The term "over-inclusion” is meant to capture … understanding upon which the intervention is grounded. </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000;">B. Without viewing all the different types of agency and realizing the traffic between them will increase the present oppression and make fighting future oppression impossible-turning case</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-align: justify;">**C.W.G.L. 2006** (Center for Women’s Global Leadership)“A definition of intersectional discrimination”</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-align: justify;">August 29, 2006. http://www.cwgl.rutgers.edu/index.html</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-align: justify;">An intersectional approach to analyzing … create various forms of disempowerment. </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000;">C. The alternative is to embrace an intersectional approach to identity which analyzes the dynamic interactions between oppressions. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-align: justify;">**Crenshaw 2k3** Kimberle Crenshaw. (Professor of Law and UCLA) “The intersectionality of Race and Gener discrimination” November 2003 http://www.isiswomen.org/womenet/lists/apgr-list/archive/doc00009.doc</span>
<span style="color: #000000; text-align: justify;">The conjoining of multiple systems of subordination … the heavy flow of traffic traveling along all these roads. </span>

=====**2NC Overview**===== 
**Our kritik proves your genealogy is flawed and should be rejected—nowhere in the 1AC does it question race-based or class-based exclusion—proves our intersectionality impacts are disads to their specific genealogy**

**And, here’s an alternative genealogical approach that recognizes race as well as gender oppression**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**McQuaid**, Professor of History, Lake Erie College, 200**9**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kim, “Racism, Sexism and Space Ventures,” SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACEFLIGHT, p.423, http://history.nasa.gov/sp4801-chapter22.pdf, last accessed 8.1.11 [RG]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The occupational desegregation process ... physically blacker than Mrs. Harris,” he said.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Turns Case**</span>===== 

**Without viewing identities in different contexts and focus only on the immediate aspect of discrimination the process of developing a framework to uncover intersectional discrimination fails and the intervention of plan becomes counter-productive turning case.**
**Crenshaw 2k3**

Kimberle Crenshaw. (Professor of Law and UCLA) “The intersectionality of Race and Gener discrimination” November 2003 http://www.isiswomen.org/womenet/lists/apgr-list/archive/doc00009.doc

Intersectional discrimination is particularly difficult … useful interventions and protections be developed.



**The failure to interrogate different identities while examining sex and gender effects all other power relations and leads to the subordination of womyn.**
**Crenshaw 94**

Williams, Kimberlé Crenshaw. "Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Violence Against Women of Color". In: Martha Albertson Fineman, Rixanne Mykitiuk, Eds. The Public Nature of Private Violence. (New York: Routledge, 1994), p. 93-118.

Among the most troubling political consequences … more fully empowers women of color.

=====**Gender Links**===== 
**Your Claims that gender is the root cause of violence is wrong-those arguments causes more oppression and makes plan fail**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Crenshaw 2k3 (Kimberle Crenshaw, Proffesor of Law at UCLA, "The intersectionality of Race and Gender discrimination" November, 2003. <http://www.isiswomen.org/womenet/lists/apgr-list/archive/doc00009.doc</span>>)
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Most racially marginalized women’s experiences ... more stark than in intra-group difference.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**AT: Perm**</span>===== 

**Just acknowledging the other differences does not solve you must take actual steps to solve for the differences. Mark this card it's specific to their affirmative**
**Crenshaw 2k3**
Kimberle Crenshaw. (Professor of Law and UCLA) “The intersectionality of Race and Gener discrimination” November 2003 http://www.isiswomen.org/womenet/lists/apgr-list/archive/doc00009.doc
The discourse on the trafficking of women … recommendations designed to address the issue.

**A top-down approach, such as the perm, does not uncover the practices that lead to oppression-instead leads to more subordination**
**Crenshaw 2k3**
Kimberle Crenshaw. (Professor of Law and UCLA) “The intersectionality of Race and Gener discrimination”November 2003 http://www.isiswomen.org/womenet/lists/apgr-list/archive/doc00009.doc
Intersectional vulnerability is especially unlikely … who are not exposed to similar obstacles.

====<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">**Weather K**</span>==== 
=====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**1NC Shell**</span>===== 
**The affirmative’s call for disaster preparedness deploys a techno-scientific discourse to conceal material inequalities—this framing is intrinsic to their policy proposal.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 27-28)
The emergence of natural disasters … extensive colonial structures.

**Their call for improved weather prediction is a product of their ideological blinders—failure to foreground questions of class and economics screens out root causes and makes the impact of disasters worse.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011)
However, prediction is limited … screen out the politics of disaster.

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s call for more and better weather data. Contesting the epistemology and methodology that underwrites the plan is a necessary prerequisite to effective disaster politics—the critique turns the case.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 29-30)
All this is not to deny that disasters … risk or otherwise directly involved (1997: 358).

=====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Link/Impact**</span>===== 
**The View From Above: Their call for more satellite weather data entrenches a view from above that divorces humanity from nature and desensitizes us to disaster—turns the case.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011)
Katrina was not only a weather event … are not a part of the narrative of weather media.

**Technocratic Managerialism: The affirmative enframes disaster preparedness as an issue of technology and bureaucratic management—this ensures serial policy failure and collective victim blaming—turns the case.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 24-25)
More recently these qualities have … that had the opportunity to reduce risk but failed to do so (Varley, 1994: 3).

**Salvation Through Prediction: The affirmative’s fetishization of prediction erases political agency—we become witnesses instead of actors.**
**Sturken 1** — Marita Sturken, Associate Professor of Communication at the University of Southern California, 2001 (“Desiring the Weather: El Niño, the Media, and California Identity,” Public Culture, Volume 13, Number 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project Muse)
The weather is the site of a production … we could be prepared.

**Bare Life: Enframing certain populations as “vulnerable” condemns them to live in defenseless spaces—they are reduced to bare life.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 24-25)
The discourse of vulnerability … despotic or illegitimate governments (Hewitt, 1997: 165).

**That results in Western interventions—the impact is ethnocentrism.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 27)
The Western discourse on disasters … affairs of those regions for our and their sakes.

**Dual Use: The affirmative’s call for more weather data from satellites is inextricably tied up in the military-industrial complex.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011)
The reporter-in-weather is a fixture … but serves to underwrite them as well.

=====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Alternative**</span>===== 
**The alternative solves the case—rejecting the affirmative’s disaster politics is key to effective preparedness.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 29-30)
The more a threat is perceived as chronic … for so many millions for so long.

=====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**AT: Perm**</span>===== 
**And, radical critique is key—the permutation doesn’t solve.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 29)
The problem, from the … reflects the values and principles of that culture.

**And, the permutation links to our Preparedness DA—focusing on individual preparedness trades off with structural solutions, flipping the case.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011)
Government campaigns that sell the idea … all citizens to the most basic of human needs.

=====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**AT: Framework**</span>===== 
**And, weather must be evaluated critically—purely scientific approaches ensure serial policy failure.**
**Berland 94** — Jody Berland, Professor in the Department of Humanities at York University, 1994 (“On reading ‘The weather’,” Cultural Studies, Volume 8, Issue 1, January, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via IngentaConnect, p. 111-112)
We can begin to understand … diverse ways that such inscription occurs.

===Counterplans=== 
====**Lori Garver Succession CP**==== 
=====**CP Text**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Charles F. Bolden, Jr. should resign as administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.</span>**

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">1NC Shell</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">NASA’s second in command is a female – Lori Garver</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**NASA 04/2010** [“Garver Bio” http://www.nasa.gov/about/highlights/garver_bio.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Nominated by President Barack Obama and … NASA Strategic Management System, and the NASA Advisory Council.</span>

====**Disaster Relief CP**==== 
=====**CP Text**===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**The United States Federal Government should establish a cabinet-level agency for global development to plan, coordinate and implement American development assistance programs**</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**1NC Shell**</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**The CP has bipartisan support and is the best way to restore US credibility and solve global development**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Brainard in ‘8** </span>(Lael, VP and Director of Brookings Institute, CQ Congressional Testimony, “FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ISSUES”, 1-23, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Creating a Cabinet-level voice for development ... </span>fight against global poverty in growing numbers.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Solvency</span>**===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Makes foreign assistance effective ----- key to development and credibility ---- which are the internal to aff's impacts**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ban in ‘8** </span>(Ki-Moon, UN Secretary General, M2 Presswire, 3-4, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I could go on. The list of the world's ... </span>say this most of all to you.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**The CP restores US global leadership ---- assistance is key**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Birdsall and Rabelet in ‘8** </span>(Nancy, President, and Steve, Senior Fellow @ Center for Global Deveelopment, “Why the Next U.S. President Should Create a Cabinet-Level Department of Global Development”, 1-28, http://blog.globaldevelopmentmatters.org/2008/01/30/why-the-next-us-president-should-create-a-cabinet-level-department-of-global-development/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The extraordinary challenges and opportunities ... </span>building a better, safer world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Pakistan proves that actions like the CP restore the image of US competence which solves smart power and credibility**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Armitage and Nye in ‘7** </span>(Richard, Deputy Secretary of State From 2001 to 2005, and Joseph, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Washington Post, “Stop Getting Mad, America. Get Smart.” 12-9, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically, the United States should renew ... </span>It would simply be the smart thing to do.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Case Specific Answers</span>=== 

====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**Gender**</span>==== 

=====<span style="font-size: 1.033em;">**1NC Frontline**</span>===== 

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Status Quo solves- Jill Abramson became the first female editor of the New York Times on September 6th. Media key to shaping our discourse.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Harvard Crimson, 9/9/2011.** (A New Era: Abramson’s Appointment to Times Executive Editor couldn’t have come sooner. http://www.thecrimson.com/article/2011/9/9/even-women-journalism-various/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">She got her start at American Lawyer … an important step in that direction.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Their aff doesn’t generate real change - crewing an all female shuttle mission for the sole purpose of breaking gender barriers equates to nothing more than a publicity stunt; only reaffirms the patriarchal mindset – our evidence indicates this is just a stepping stone to stop the problem.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Shayler & Moule ’05** (David & Ian, Women in Space – Following Valentina, Springer, July 7, 2005)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">At the time (1999), Seddon revealed … funding and organize the resources.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Their Sage card is bad – Masculine space exploration is an outdated concept—status quo exploration takes into account feminist perspectives**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Day, 2004** (Dwayne A., an American space historian and policy analyst and served as an investigator for the Columbia Accident Investigation Board, study director on studies concerning NASA's planetary exploration program, the threat of asteroids striking Earth, etc. at the Space Studies Board of the National Research Council/National Academy of Sciences, “The feminization of American space policy”, 4/12/04, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/130/1, Web)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">“Leadership” was one of many such … space had been conquered.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Turn - feminist thought just reproduces gender stereotypes**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Witworth, 94** prof of political science and female studies @ York U, (Feminism and International Relations, pg 20,</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Even when not concerned … reconsider this position.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Turn - Critiques of heteronormativity re-entrench existing subject identity roles and manifest the harmful aspects of capitalism**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**McNamara 2000** (Liam, “Review: The Political economy of Sex”, http://culturemachine.tees.ac.uk/Reviews/rev11.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">In Chapter Three, Hennessey attacks … the new consumer ethos.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Turn - The feminist alternative inevitably results in the same practices it hopes to prevent, and fails to secure knowledge claims which could cause real change.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Stern 2009** (Maria Stern, researcher, department of peace and development research @ Gotberg University and Marysia Zalewski, director of centre for gender studies @ University of Aberdeen, 2009, “Feminist fatigue(s): reflections on feminism and familiar fables of militarization”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">In this section we clarify … hopeful scenarios for our students.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Focus on heteronormative oppresion undermines collective ability to address multidimensional nature of oppression**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Valdes,** Professor of Law, University of Miami, **2000** (Francisco, DePaul Law Review, “Outsider Scholars, Legal Theory & Outcrit Perspectivity: Postsubordination Vision as Jurisprudential Method,” 49 DePaul L. Rev. 831, Spring, Lexis/Nexis, last accessed 12.31.09, RG)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Though this discourse usefully … socially and/or legally subordinated.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Turn—multidimensionality—plan’s single focus on heteronormativity makes overall discrimination worse—must focus on complete euro-hetero-patriarchal oppression to solve**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Valdes,** Professor of Law, University of Miami, **2000** (Francisco, DePaul Law Review, “Outsider Scholars, Legal Theory & Outcrit Perspectivity: Postsubordination Vision as Jurisprudential Method,” 49 DePaul L. Rev. 831, Spring, Lexis/Nexis, last accessed 12.31.09, RG)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Postsubordination vision as jurisprudential method … gender, sexuality, class, and other target identities.</span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]