[[toc]]


=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
Won't be debating Jan/Feb - will disclose bit by bit for education, quality of debate, and such.
==Affirmative== 
===LGBT AC=== 
Same-sex domestic violence is as common as heterosexual domestic violence.
Shannon Little [J.D., University of California, Hastings College of the Law; B.A., Journalism, American University]. “Challenging Changing Legal Definitions of Family in Same-Sex Domestic Violence.” Hastings Women's Law Journal 19 (Summer 2008): 259.
The lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender... cohabiting with opposite-sex partners.

The literature on domestic violence is heterosexist and ignores this abuse.
Mary Beth D. Collins [J.D., Wayne State University Law School; B.A., Political Science, University of Alaska Fairbanks; researched with Zanita Fenton]. "SAME-SEX DOMESTIC VIOLENCE: ADDRESSING THE ISSUES FOR THE PROPER PROTECTION OF VICTIMS." The Journal of Law in Society, Vol. 4 (Fall 2002): 99.
Activism in the area... are not only victims.

Same-sex domestic violence is only now emerging in the public sphere – AC discourse is key. LGBT victims are empirically marginalized and ignored, so aggregate analysis fails. To understand the real impacts of abuse and give voice to the issue, we must focus on their unique plight. 
Nancy E. Murphy [more than 22 years as a family law attorney; JD, Hamline Law School; B.A., CSU-LA]. “Queer Justice: Equal Protection for Victims of Same-Sex Domestic Violence.” Valparaiso University Law Review, Vol 30, No. 1 (1995): 335.
Battered women endured generations... gender or sexual orientation.

V: M
VC: Respecting self-defense

C1: Victims can't escape abuse without using deadly force. 
A. Victims can’t leave.
The NIU Resource Center [Northern Illinois University, LGBT Resource Center. "Myths & Facts about Same-Sex Domestic Violence." Adapted from: National Lesbian and Gay Health Foundation Conference, July 1990.]
Lesbian and gay male... LGBT people to leave.

B. Many victims have no effective recourse short of deadly force because of disparities in power between them and their abusers.

C. Barriers to escape are heightened in same-sex relationships. 
Michelle Aulivola [J.D., Hofstra University School of Law]. "GAY AND LESBIAN FAMILIES IN THE 21ST CENTURY: Outing Domestic Violence: Affording Appropriate Protections to Gay and Lesbian Victims." Family Court Review 42 (January 2004): 162.
Domestic abuse perpetrated within same-sex... the side of the abusive partner.

C2: Outside means fail. 
A. Legal protections against abuse exclude same-sex couples, both explicitly and implicitly.
Pamela M. Jablow [J.D., Hofstra University; B.A., summa cum laude from the University of Maryland]. "NOTE: VICTIMS OF ABUSE AND DISCRIMINATION: PROTECTING BATTERED HOMOSEXUALS UNDER DOMESTIC VIOLENCE LEGISLATION." Hofstra L. Rev. 28 (Summer 2000): 1095.
For instance, some states... parents of the same child.

B. Even where laws extend to gay and lesbian relationships, bias prevents victims from obtaining recourse through the criminal justice system. Aulivola 2 provides 3 warrants: 
Michelle Aulivola [J.D., Hofstra University School of Law]. "GAY AND LESBIAN FAMILIES IN THE 21ST CENTURY: Outing Domestic Violence: Affording Appropriate Protections to Gay and Lesbian Victims." Family Court Review 42 (January 2004): 162.
In seeking protection from... seeking out legal protections.

C. Even responses from outside the state ignore LGBT individuals. There is an overwhelming consensus – services and shelters for victims of same-sex domestic violence are non-existent. 
Satoko Harada [J.D., University of Baltimore School of Law]. "COMMENT: ADDITIONAL BARRIERS TO BREAKING THE SILENCE: ISSUES TO CONSIDER WHEN REPRESENTING A VICTIM OF SAME-SEX DOMESTIC VIOLENCE." The University of Baltimore Law Forum 41 (Spring 2011): 150.
There is a uniform consensus... to the victim's location.

D. Even gay rights organizations ignore same-sex domestic violence, so victims have no one to turn to - 4 warrants. 
Mary Beth D. Collins [J.D., Wayne State University Law School; B.A., Political Science, University of Alaska Fairbanks; researched with Zanita Fenton]. "SAME-SEX DOMESTIC VIOLENCE: ADDRESSING THE ISSUES FOR THE PROPER PROTECTION OF VICTIMS." The Journal of Law in Society, Vol. 4 (Fall 2002): 99.
Many gay rights organizations... and in youth safety.

===A2: Legal System Solves=== 
The decline in abuse is not due to legal protections – it’s a trend of decreased crime in society overall.
RADAR ["SPECIAL REPORT: Why Have Domestic Violence Programs Failed to Stop Partner Abuse?" Respecting Accuracy in Domestic Abuse Reporting. 2008.]
Declines in intimate partner... reduced partner violence.

Reject their isolated evidence – studies generally show no deterrent results from pro-arrest policies AND there are side effects.
Miller and Peterson [Susan L. Miller and Elicka S. L. Peterson. "Chapter 14: The Impact of Law Enforcement Policies on Victims of Intimate Partner Violence." in It's a Crime: Women and Justice, Fourth Edition, by Roslyn Muraskin. Published by Prentice Hall. 2007 by Pearson Education, Inc.]
Overall, the bulk of research... disturbances (Buzawa & Buzawa, 1996).16

===A2: Shelters Solve=== 
Shelters fail.
RADAR ["SPECIAL REPORT: Why Have Domestic Violence Programs Failed to Stop Partner Abuse?" Respecting Accuracy in Domestic Abuse Reporting. 2008.]
Feminist therapists advocate that... want to leave them.”2

===A2: Victim=== 
Turn: Assuming that “victim” = helplessness blames the victim and forces the victim to deny their experience – we should embrace the word “victim”.
Cara Kulwicki [feminist writer; editor and contributor at Feministe]. "Why is Victim a Dirty Word?" The Curvature. Dec 13, 2008.
Why identify “victim” so closely... to claim the title.

==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]