[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Asteroids Aff== 

**Status Quo NASA programs are insufficient to detect a significant amount of near-earth objects--expanding survey capacity is key to discovering potentially hazardous objects.**
__National Academies 10__ (<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12842&page=41)</span>
Congress has established [...] especially imminent impactors.

**LPCs pose a substantial threat and are currently undercounted**
__IAA 9__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing With The Threat To Earth From Asteroids And Comets”, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)</span>
Detection of [...] before one impacts the earth.

**Current technology isn't able to effectively respond to an asteroid**
__Bradley et. al. 10__ (<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Los Alamos Research Laboratory, “Challenges of Deflecting an Asteroid or Comet Nucleus with a Nuclear Burst”, [[http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Bradley-etal_DeflectingAsteroids.pdf%29/DT|http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Bradley-etal_DeflectingAsteroids.pdf)//DT]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Although we have [...] account for this uncertainty.</span>

__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should develop and deploy an infrared space-based telescope in a Venus-like orbit to detect NEOs and should direct NASA to deflect NEOs. We reserve the right to clarify.</span>**__

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Only a space-based survey can detect incoming asteroids quickly enough to enable deflection**</span>
__Arentz et. al. 10__<span style="font-size: 102%;"> (<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">“NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 102%;">The key to mitigation [...] about NEOs for future work.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 97%;">**Lack of warning time will result in nuclear deflection--a violation of the OST, causing a state crises, public panic, and terrorism**</span>
__Brandenburg 11__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (John E. Brandenburg, Ph.D., plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies, former independent consultant on Space Missile Defense, Directed Energy Weapons; 'Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis', The Astronomical Review; May 17, 2011; </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Countermeasures against positively [...] and prepare for one.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Deflection would be easy**</span>
__Bottke et. al.4__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (William F. Bottke, Jr., Southwest Research Institute; Alessandro Morbidelli, Observatoire de la Cˆote d’Azur; Robert Jedicke, University of Hawai’i; Mitigation Of Hazardous Comets And Asteroids, p. 1-2)</span>
Is is now [...] the potential consequences.

**Gravity tractors can solve**
<span style="font-size: 99%;">__NGN 5__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 99%;">(Steven Lovgren, Nat'l Geo writer; '"Gravity Tractor" Could Deflect Earth-Bound Asteroids', National Geographic; </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2005/11/1109_051109_asteroid_tug.html; November 9, 2005)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 99%;">A space craft could [...] underscore the value of being prepared for an emergency."</span>

**Impact in water causes deadly climate change and acid rain**
<span style="font-size: 99%;">__Airhart 10__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Marc Airhart, science writer for the University of Texas at Austin's Jackson School of Geosciences; 'Experts reaffirm asteroid impact caused mass extinction', EurekAlert; 4-Mar-2010; [[http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2010-03/uota-era022510.php]])</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 99%;">Several mechanisms have [...] for the impact hypothesis.</span>

**Acid rain from NEO impacts causes extinction through ecosystem damage**
<span style="font-size: 101%;">__Wolosz, no date__ <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Trebuchet MS',sans-serif;">Dr. Tom Wolosz, professor at the Center for Earth & Environmental Sciences, SUNY at Plattsburgh; 'Effects of Acid Rain'; [[http://faculty.plattsburgh.edu/thomas.wolosz/acid_rain.htm]])</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Trebuchet MS',sans-serif; font-size: 101%; line-height: 14px;">We generally consider [...] for modern ecosystem damage.</span>

=Negative= 
==Payroll DA== 

**Payroll tax cut will pass.**
__<span style="color: #000000;">Bloomberg 12</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Ian Katz, Gopal Ratnam; ‘Boehner Predicts Congress Will Extend Payroll Tax-Reduction’, Bloomberg; January 29, 2012; [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/boehner-says-he-s-confident-congress-will-pass-payroll-tax-cut.html]])</span>
House Speaker John [...] negotiated," McConnell said.

**<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">Obama political capital key to passing payroll.</span>**
__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Philly 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Philadelphia Inquirer; ‘POINT: Don’t expect miracles on job growth’, Philly; September 8, 2011; [[http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-tax]])</span>
Given Republican opposition [...] privatize Social Security.

**<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">New NASA spending requires and expends Obama’s political capital.</span>**
__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12.6667px;">Powell 9</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Stewart M. Powell; ‘NASA's mission for billions more may be an uphill battle’, Chron; September 12, 2009; [[http://www.chron.com/news/nation-world/article/NASA-s-mission-for-billions-more-may-be-an-uphill-1747252.php]])</span>
NASA supporters are [...] condition of anonymity.

**Payroll tax cut is key to avoiding a double dip recession.**
__<span style="color: #000000;">LA Times 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Lisa Mascaro, Christi Parsons; ‘Democrats plan next step for Obama's jobs package’, Los Angeles Times; Oct 11, 2011; [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/oct/11/nation/la-na-senate-jobs-20111012]])</span>
Sen. Charles E. [...] back into recession."

**Double-dip recession now causes a depression.**
__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">CNN 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Chris Isidore; ‘Recession 2.0 would hurt worse’, CNNMoney; August 10, 2011; [[http://money.cnn.com/2011/08/10/news/economy/double_dip_recession_economy/index.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">And while economists [...] to counteract it.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">Impact is global nuclear war.</span>**
__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12.6667px;">Mead 9</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Walter Russell Mead, Professor of Foreign Affairs and Humanity at Bard College, Editor of The American Interest, former Henry. A Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council of Foreign Relations, teaches American Foreign Policy at Yale, BA from Yale in English Literature, honors graduate of Groton School and Yale; ‘Only Makes You Stronger’, The New Republic; February 4, 2009; [[http://www.tnr.com/article/only-makes-you-stronger]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">None of which [...] have to fight.</span>

==Cap K== 

**We must begin by taking a more critical approach to space–exploration beyond the earth is the newest solution to the inevitable crises produced by capitalism. It will inevitably become militarized and morph into a terrain for continued domination and exploitation of resources and labor.**
__Dickens 10__ (Peter Dickens, teaches at the Universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK. author of //<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.6667px;">Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe</span>//). "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?” //Monthly Review// 2010, Volume 62, Issue 06 (November)
Instead of indulging [...] <span style="font-size: 12px;">own cosmic “fixes</span>.”

**Continued Economic Growth Will End All Complex Forms of Life—We Must Allow Recession to Take Hold to Re-Establish Viable Civilization—All Your Transition Bad Impacts are Non-Ux**
__Barry 08__ (Dr. Glen **Barry**, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology,” CounterCurrents.org, January 14th, 20**08** ([[http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm]])
Given widespread failure [...] and human revival.

**The Alternative is To Allow The System to Collapse—Exposing These Fractures Will Allow for Capitalism to Collapse, They Must Be Exploited as the Opportunity Arises**
__Zizek 00__ (Slavoj **Zizek** , Contingency, Hegemony, Universality: Contemporary Dialogues on the Left, 20**00**, p. 322)
I am fully [...] globalization more docile.

==Space Mil DA== 

**US is pursuing space cooperation—multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
__Huntley 11__ (Wade Huntley, senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School. “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, 2011. [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])
As is well [...] in these details.

**[The perception of] pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
__Dant 11__ (Daniel Dant, chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy, High Frontier, February, 2011, " he National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])
Cooperation for contested and competitive ... coalition of responsible space-faring nations.

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is key to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
__Theresa 8__ (Theresa Hitchens, President of the Center for Defense Information, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?,” Scientific American, February, 2008, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])
Perhaps of even [...] unacceptable to all.

**War in space occurs through miscalculation—risks extinction**
__Mitchell et al 1__ (Mitchell, et al, Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads,” No. 6 July, 2001, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])
A buildup of [...] conflict ever seen.

==PPWT CP== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">PPWT key to a non-militarized space – solves miscalc, instability, and proliferation.</span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.5px;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13px;">__Vasiliev 08__</span> <span style="font-size: 98%;">(Victor Vasiliev, counselor for the UN Institute on Disarmament Research; '</span></span><span style="font-size: 98%;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">The Draft Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the threat or use of force against outer space objects'; April 1, 2008;</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> [[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2822.pdf]])</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Solves China and Russia weaponization – they pushed the treaty, and they aren’t lying.</span>**
__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Englehart 8</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Alex B Englehart, </span><span class="st" style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">contributor to the Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal at the University of Washington School of Law</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Jan 2008 “Common Ground In The Sky: Extending The 1967 Outer Space Treaty To Reconcile US and Chinese Security Interests</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">” Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal ProQuest Asian Business and Reference pg. 133; </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?did=1429810431&Fmt=7&clientId=4347&RQT=309&VName=PQD%3E//DoeS|http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?did=1429810431&Fmt=7&clientId=4347&RQT=309&VName=PQD>//DoeS]])</span>


=Just a Heads Up= 
This wiki is very under construction! More things will be added in the coming days/weeks/whatever, but if you have aff questions, you should email me at [[mailto:rdzieweczynskifoster@gmail.com|rdzieweczynskifoster@gmail.com]] and if you have neg questions, you should email [[mailto:spacetigert@gmail.com|spacetigert@gmail.com]] (repeatedly, since her inbox is lonely.) We're also novices, but we have gone varsity or JV at a few tournaments.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]