[[toc]]
=Burke Kritik= 
==1NC== 
**The 1AC’s enframing of strategic and technical reason reifies an ontology and epistemology of violence—their technological worldview reduces all beings to standing-reserve and guarantees extinction**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span>__—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)
<span style="font-size: 110%;">This essay develops ... limited impact -- </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-size: 110%;">it permeates being</span>.</span>**</span>

**The judge should take on the role of the intellectual – vote negative to exchange the ontology of being for one of becoming—this free relationship to technology entails a questioning that can break free from technological thought and re-imagine the world from outside the political space**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span>__—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)
I was motivated to...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">insecurity and violence? Will our thought?</span>

==STRATCOM Link== 
This is the conclusion to their rinne evidence – stratcom’s modus operandi is the definition of a rarified ontology of certainty – they don’t have to answer to anyone and will spin information to fit their colonizing mission. This focus on speed and technology puts us on the brink of extinction hourly
**<span style="color: black;">Rinne</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Tim 20**09**-08-0 6 United Nations association, Nebraska Chapter <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.afterdowningstreet.org/node/45020]]</span>, </span>
<span class="Underline">Count </span>Congress<span class="Underline">, </span>the ...<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">live with StratCom.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">1NR Framework</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">And, the role of intellectuals is to critically oppose patterns of domination. Only this form of interrogation renews value to life</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 11pt;">Gill, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">professor of political science at York University, </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 11pt;">2000</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">[Stephen, //Questioning Geopolitics//, p. 130-131]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">So what is ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of historical time. </span>



Intervention into the aff’s regime of truth is a way to challenge the hegemony of modernity’s technological thought and drive for control. The inevitable demand by the affirmative that we produce concrete solutions to the problems they have identified only obscures the real politics at plan. The alternative is a necessary first step to re-build the world brink-by-brick.


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Edkins</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales at Aberystwyth, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">in ‘6</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Jenny December 20</span>06<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>“The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Vol. 9 No. 4, pg. 499-511]

Of course, 'this... of particular instances.

==1NR AT Perm== 
Being critical of violence does not mean the perm works – the logic they use to argue that doing the plan is absolutely necessary is rooted in the same metaphysics that makes other ways of being impossible.
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Burke</span>, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">07 </span>
[Anthony, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason]
I was motivated to ...<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> dysfunctional or chaotic.</span>

==1NR AT Thayer== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Thayer’s argument misapplies biological science as a justification for naturalizing patriarchy and domination.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Mark </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12pt;">Busser</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">, Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University. Aug 200</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12pt;">6</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">. (“The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations ”, [[http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf]])</span>
The political and ...<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> naturalize their ubiquity.</span>




=Psychoanalysis= 

==<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC K</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Security is a psychological construct—the aff’s scenarios for conflict are products of paranoia that project our violent impulses onto the other</span>**
<span class="tagchar0">**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mack 91</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">– Doctor of Psychiatry and a professor at Harvard University (John, “The Enemy System” http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/eJournal/article.asp?id=23 *Gender modified)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The threat of nuclear annihilation</span> ... contribute powerfully to the process.
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Their paranoid projections guarantee extinction—it’s try or die</span>**
<span class="tagchar0">**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hollander 3</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">– professor of Latin American history and women's studies at California State University (Nancy, "A Psychoanalytic Perspective on the Politics of Terror:In the Aftermath of 9/11" www.estadosgerais.org/mundial_rj/download/FLeitor_NHollander_ingl.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">In this sense, then,</span> 9-11 has ... mechanisms and stimulates paranoia.



**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vote negative to interrogate cycles of enemy creation—this can create a fissure in dominant narratives that make war inevitable</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Byles 3</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">—English, U Cyprus (Joanna, Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification, http://www.clas.ufl.edu/ipsa/journal/articles/art_byles01.shtml, )</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is here of course that</span> language ... a way of thinking.
==<span style="text-decoration: none;"> 2NC Framework </span>== 

**The role of the judge should be an analyst—interrogating the aff’s psychological paranoia should be a prior question—it’s not about what the neg does, it’s about what the aff needs to do better** 
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Žižek 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 5pt;"> – Senior Researcher @ University of Ljubljana, </span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Contingency, Hegemony, Universality</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 5pt;"> 124-127</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Now I can also answer the obvious … the fantasy towards the Real. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">our framework is a </span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">pre-requisite</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> to sound policy formation </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cheeseman and Bruce 96 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Graeme Cheeseman, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ, ‘96 (Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">This goal is pursued in ways … not to understand them, and why?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">You should prioritize good scholarship over hypothetically saving lives—policymakers face unique constraints like time that are nonexistent in debate—this lack of urgency means we can talk through our ideas—this is key to stop error replication </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bilgin 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">—Pinar BILGIN IR @ Bilikent AND Adam David MORTON Senior Lecturer and Fellow of the Centre for the Study of Social and Global Justice IR @ Nottingham ‘4 (“From ‘Rogue’ to ‘Failed’ States? The Fallacy of Short-termism” Politics 24 (3) p. Wiley Interscience//DN)</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Calls for alternative approaches … and policymaking communities alike. </span>





=<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ecology K</span>= 

The affirmative is putting the cart before the horse. They look towards space for salvation from ecological woes without thinking about how we got here in the first place. Absent self-reflection they will just replicate in space the same destructive practices that got us into this mess.

__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">McLean</span>__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">0</span>**</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">6</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [Margaret R. ,Assistant director of the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics at Santa Clara University </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/ethicalperspectives/space-exploration.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">With yesterday's …</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> of space exploration.</span>




Nothing will change, we will pretend like we aren’t part of the problem while our imperialist practices expand into a new theatre.

__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Marshall 95</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Alan, Institute of Development Studies at Massey University “Development and Imperialism in Space” Space Policy 1995 11(l) 41-52 ]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Development in …</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> from using them.</span>

The alternative is to resituate the human in the ecological – only through a solar ethics can we reconceive moral action in space – it’s a prerequisite to the aff

__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Peters and Hung 09</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">, [ProfessorEducation Policy, Organization and Leadership, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Department of Education, National Chiayi University, Taiwan,</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, “Awe and Humility: Intrinsic Value in Nature: Beyond an Earthbound Environmental Ethics,” </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cseserv.engr.scu.edu/StudentAccounts/ENGR019Winter2003/DFlores/Keekok_Lee.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The solar system…</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> the action itself</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NR Impact framing</span>== 



**The aff’s impact calculus is flawed, humans and even Earth are insignificant as opposed to the damage humanity can do to the universe**

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Petersand Hung 09</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">(MICHAEL A , Professor Education Policy, Organization and Leadership, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and Ruyu, Hung Department of Education, National Chiayi University, Taiwan Policy Futures in Education Volume 7 Number 3 2009, “Solar Ethics: a new paradigm for environmental ethics and education?,” </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wwwords.co.uk/pdf/validate.asp?j=pfie&vol=7&issue=3&year=2009&article=5_Peters_PFIE_7_3_web]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> page 327-328 ]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, in our ...of environmental education.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NR SPS link</span>== 
Entire industries are salivating at the thought of the plan – making consumption more environmentally-friendly is an attractive label for consumers, allowing corporations to further their control over the global environment by painting themselves as responsible stewards.

<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Luke1999</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, [Timothy W., Professor of Political Science at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Discourses of the Environment, p. 141-42]</span>



<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">In some sectors...</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">or wildlife are used?</span>

==<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR AT Perm</span>== 
**It is a question of sequencing, must attend to environmental ethics of space exploration prior to deciding course of actions**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hargrove 86</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, [Eugene C., Currently University of North Texas, Professor Department of Philosophy and Religion Studies, Beyond spaceship earth : environmental ethics and the solar system, Ed. Hargrove, p. ix – xi]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Although the Earth ...</span> of these goals.


**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The alt is a pre requisite to the plan</span>**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Daly 8 </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Erin and Robert, graduate student School of Life Sciences at Arizona State University, and Frodeman, chair of Department of Philosophy at University of North Texas “Separated At Birth, Signs Of Rapprochement Environmental Ethics And Space Exploration” Ethics & the Environment Volume 13, Number 1, Spring 2008 accessed: 7-02-11 </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v013/13.1.daly.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> pg140)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">This </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">anthropocentric and...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> our home plane.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR AT Link Turn</span>== 
**They say that they link turn by solving consumption - The cataloguing and control of consumptive habits is the justification for massive state intervention and domination of capitalist society**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Luke 99</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Timothy W. ,professor of political science at Virginia polytechnic institute and state university, Capitalism, Democracy, and Ecology: Departing from Marx, , pg. 71-72]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This comodifying circuit ... satisfying social services.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR AT Realism</span>== 
First, the ontological baggage of the 1ac is what produces realism as objective and inevitable. The aff incarcerates us in the prison of power politics.
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Shapiro, and Alker, in ‘96</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Micheal J and Hayward R., Challenging Boundaries: Global Flows, Territorial Identities, pg 42-43]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consequently, two rather p...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> conception of [utilitarian] rational behaviour</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">. 27</span>

=<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deleuze Qritiq</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">The world around us is failing – on the brink of extinction, our lives are not joyous but melancholy and the solutions of technology have failed. Politics has no hope of saving us.</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12pt;">Guattari 89</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">, [Pierre-Félix French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies" pp. 27-29]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Earth is …</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 9pt;">of religious fundamentalism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">The 1AC tries to order the chaos into something easy to accept - reducing as many effects to as few causes as possible ignoring the multiplicit nature of the world</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12pt;">Srnicek ’10</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> [Nick, , PhD Student at London School of Economics and Political Science “Conflict Networks: Collapsing the Global into the Local” Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2 (2010) <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://lse.academia.edu/NickSrnicek/Papers]]</span>]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">This leads us … with the local</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">This way of thinking is a transmission of the bad affects of a system that is designed to organize what it means to be human and what it means for humans to be secure, how they should live, what they should think. You must resist the transmission of this melancholy at all costs, for it negates the pleasure of being alive</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Parnet ’87</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">[famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs.61-62]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">When Spinoza says …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> not to save it.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Reject the affirmative’s call to take certain action in order to save the future - use the ballot to encounter the present, experience the pleasure of a precarious existence and find the world as if you are experiencing everything for the first time</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Parnet ’87</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> [famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs 47-51]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Your secret can … off until tomorrow.</span>

==1NR Impact Framing== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Even if they do win that their case ultimately does prevent some great catastrophe, you are an empiricist finding beauty in the flows of material and you should not be sentimental about organic life. The aff hasn’t offered a prior justification for caring about their brand of imminent catastrophe</span>**
__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12pt;">De Landa ‘97</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Manuel de Landa, Adjunct Associate Professor at Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University (New York), the Gilles Deleuze Chair of Contemporary Philosophy and Science at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, a professor at the Canisius College in Buffalo, New York, and professor at the University of Pennsylvania School of Design in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. “A thousand years of non-linear history” Cambridge University Press, 1997 pgs. 103-105</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the eyes …their size increases.3</span>

==1NR AT Perm== 
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">We're methodologically competitive -- our alternative is not some arbitrarily utopian course of action but rather a conceptual apparatus that encounters a different world than the plan. The politics of the affirmative are one of __forced movement__ reacting against a chaotic universe by naively designing false models that insist upon the success of order, repeating the catastrophe in the same method that it is caused. If the perm has a net-benefit then it demonstrably relies on the desirability of a conceptually ordered world that should be rejected. The politics of the alternative is natural movement, which takes joy in the dynamics of historical material and is necessary to understand the conditions of possibility for all political becoming </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze ’87</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> Gilles, famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, The Opera Quarterly 21.4 (2005) 716-724</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">A process of rationalization …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">slowly committed massacres.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT14|__14__]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> [End Page 722]</span>

==1NR AT Taft Kaufman== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">This evidence has it backwards—it says that discourse emerges from material structures—we agree that political and economic structures exist, but our __understanding__ of those structures and the way in which they function is mediated through discourse </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Grondin 4</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 6pt;">—master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa(David, “(Re)Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf) </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 6pt;">In this light, … considered as ontology.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deleuze Cyber Qritiq (GDS DTN AFF)</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>== 
We are moving towards less visible societies of control. The computer network has brought the dawn of a cyber-panopticon – never ending communication and control. The cyber-attack represents a genuine attempt to be free from these systems of control.
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deleuze 90</span>__** [Gilles, professor of philosophy at the Sorbonne “Control and Becoming” L’Autre Journal 1, May 1990, liam]
We’re definitely moving … can elude control.

These exercises of control culminate in extinction
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dumm 96</span>__** [Thomas Professor of Political Science @ Amherst College, “Michel Foucault and the Politics of Freedom.” P. 116-117]
Here I am … in a disciplinary age.

Reject the 1AC’s presentation of cyber attacks and interrogate the cycles of resistance to control at every level of your move.
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deleuze 90</span>__** [Gilles, famous philosopher, “Control and Becoming” L’Autre Journal 1, May 1990, liam]
It<span class="Underline"> definitely </span>makes … and a people.

==1NR Story== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">To his staff, </span><span class="Underline">all the ferrets, all the loggers, all the finks, all the commex, even the mineez, he said, "Who is this Harlequin?</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">" He was not purring smoothly. Timewise, it was jangle. However, it was the longest speech they had ever heard him utter at one time, the staff, the ferrets, the loggers, the finks, the commex, but not the mineez, who usually weren't around to know, in any case. But even they scurried to find out. Who is the Harlequin? </span><span class="Underline">High above the third level of the city, he crouched on the humming aluminum-frame platform of the air-boat</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (foof! air-boat, indeed! swizzleskid is what it was, with a tow-rack jerry-rigged) </span><span class="Underline">and he stared down at the neatMondrian arrangement of the buildings</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">Somewhere nearby, he could hear the metronomic left-right-left of the 2:47 PM shift</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, entering the Timkin roller-bearing plant in their sneakers. A minute later, precisely, he heard the softer right-left-right of the 5:00 AM formation, going home. </span><span class="Underline">An elfin grin spread across his tanned features, and his dimples appeared for a moment. Then, scratching at his thatch of auburn hair, he shrugged within his motley, as though girding himself for what came next, and threw the joystick forward, and bent into the wind as the air-boat dropped</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. He skimmed over a slidewalk, purposely dropping a few feet to crease the tassels of the ladies of fashion, and-inserting thumbs in large ears-he stuck out his tongue, rolled his eyes and went wugga-wugga-wugga</span><span class="Underline">. It was a minor diversion</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. One pedestrian skittered and tumbled, sending parcels everywhichway, another wet herself, a third keeled slantwise and the walk was stopped automatically by the servitors till she could be resuscitated. </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">was a minor diversion. Then he swirled away on a vagrant breeze, and was gone. Hi-ho. </span><span class="Underline">As he rounded the cornice of the Time-Motion Study Building, he saw the shift, just boarding the slidewalk. With practiced motion and an absolute conservation of movement, they sidestepped up onto the slow-strip and</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (in a chorus line reminiscent of a Busby Berkeley film of the antediluvian 1930s) </span><span class="Underline">advanced across the strips ostrich-walking till they were lined up on the expresstrip</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">Once more, in anticipation, the elfin grin spread, and there was a tooth missing back there on the left side</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">He dipped, skimmed, and swooped over them; and then, scrunching about on the air-boat, he released the holding pins that fastened shut the ends of the horne-made pouring troughs that kept his cargo from dumping prematurely. And as he pulled the trough-pins, the air-boat slid over the factory workers and one hundred and fifty thousand dollars' worth of jelly beans cascaded down on the express trip. jelly beans! Millions and billions of purples and yellows and greens and licorice and grape and raspberry and mint and round and smooth and crunchy outside and soft-mealy inside and sugary and bouncing jouncing tumbling clittering clattering skittering fell on the heads and shoulders and hardhats and carapaces of the</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Timkin </span><span class="Underline">workers</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, tinkling on the slidewalk and bouncing away and rolling about underfoot and filling the sky on their way down with all the colors of joy and childhood and holidays, coming down in a steady rain, a solid wash, a torrent of color and sweetness out of the sky from above, and entering a universe of sanity and metronomic order with quite-mad coocoo newness. jelly beans! </span><span class="Underline">The shift workers howled and laughed and were pelted, and broke ranks, and the jelly beans managed to work their way into the mechanism of the slidewalks after which there was a hideous scraping as the sound of a million fingernails rasped down a quarter of a million blackboards,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> followed by a coughing and a sputtering, and then the slidewalks all stopped and everyone was dumped thisawayandthataway in a jackstraw tumble, still laughing and popping little jelly bean eggs of childish color into their mouths. </span><span class="Underline">It was a holiday, and a jollity, an absolute insanity, a giggle. But ... The shift was delayed seven minutes. They did not get home for seven minutes. The master schedule was thrown off by seven minutes. Quotas were delayed by inoperative slidewalks for seven minutes. He had tapped the first domino in the line, and one after another, like chik chik chik, the others had fallen</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">The System had been seven minutes' worth of disrupted. It was a tiny matter, one hardly worthy of note, but in a society where the single driving force was order and unity and equality and promptness and clocklike precision and attention to the clock, reverence of the gods of the passage of time, it was a disaster of major importance.So he was ordered to appear before the Ticktockman.</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">was broadcast across every channel of the communications web</span><span class="Underline">. He was ordered to be there at 7:00 dammit on time</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> And they waited, and they waited, but he didn't show up till almost ten-thirty, at which time he merely sang a little song about moonlight in a place no one had ever heard of, called Vermont, and vanished again. </span><span class="Underline">But they had all been waiting since seven, and it wrecked hell with their schedules. So the question remained: Who is the Harlequin?</span>
…
<span class="Underline">"Repent, Harlequin!" said the Ticktockman</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. "Get stuffed!" the Harlequin replied, sneering. "</span><span class="Underline">You've been late a total of sixty-three years, five months, three weeks, two days, twelve hours, forty-one minutes, fifty-nine seconds, point oh three six one one one microseconds. You've used up everything you can, and more. I'm going to turn you off." "Scare someone else. I'd rather be dead than live in a dumb world with a bogeyman like you.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">" </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"It's my job." </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"You're full of it. You're a </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tyrant</span><span class="Underline">. You have no right to order people around and kill them if they show up late." </span>
<span class="Underline">"You can't adjust. You can't fit in." "Unstrap me, and I'll fit my fist into your mouth."</span>
<span class="Underline">"You're a nonconformist." "That didn't used to be a felony." </span>
<span class="Underline">"It is now. Live in the world around you."</span>
<span class="Underline">"I hate it. It's a terrible world." </span>
<span class="Underline">"Not everyone thinks so. Most people enjoy order."</span>
<span class="Underline">"I don't, and most of the people I know don't.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">" "That's not true. How do you think we caught you?" 'Tm not interested." </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">' A </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">girl named Pretty Alice told us who you were." </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"That's a lie." </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"It's true. You unnerve her. She wants to belong; she wants to conform; I'm going to turn you off." "Then do it already, and stop arguing with me." ''I'm not going to turn you off." "You're an idiot</span><span class="Underline">!" "Repent, Harlequin!" said the Ticktockman.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> "Get stuffed." </span><span class="Underline">So they sent him to Coventry. And in Coventry they worked him over. It was just like what they did to Winston Smith in NINETEEN EIGHTY-FouR</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which was a book none of them knew about, but the techniques are really quite ancient, and so they did it to Everett C. Marrn</span><span class="Underline">; and one day, quite a long time later, the Harlequin appeared on the communications web, appearing elfin and dimpled and bright-eyed, and not at all brainwashed, and he said he had been wrong, that it was a good, a very good thing indeed, to belong, to be right on time hip-ho and away we go</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and everyone stared up at him on the public screens that covered an entire city block, and they said to themselves, </span><span class="Underline">well, you see, he was just a nut after all, and if that's the way the system is run, then let's do it that way, because it doesn't pay to fight city hall, or in this case, the Ticktockman. So Everett C. Marm was destroyed, which was a loss, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">because of what Thoreau said</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> earlier</span><span class="Underline">, but you can't make an omelet without breaking a few eggs, and in every revolution a few die who shouldn't, but they have to, because that's the way it happens, and if you make only a little change, then it seems to be worthwhile. Or, to make the point lucidly: "Uh, excuse me, sir, I, uh, don't know how to uh, to uh, tell you this, but you were three minutes late. The schedule is a little, uh, bit off." He grinned sheepishly. "That's ridiculous!" murmured the Ticktockman behind his mask. "Check your watch." And then he went into his office, going mnnee, mnnee, mrmee, mrmee.</span>
//“Repent Harlequin! Said The Ticktockman” Harlan Ellison 1965//

==1NR AT Perm== 

<span class="Underline">**The permutation is only an attempt to reject an older system of control in favor a new, less visible form of control**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deleuze 90</span>__** [Gilles, “Society of Control, [[http://www.nadir.org/nadir/archiv/netzkritik/societyofcontrol.html]]]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We are in ...</span>to look for new weapons.

==1NR AT Tuathail== 
1) False distinction—Tuathail says that reps don’t come first because political and military structures also determine action—we agree that those structures are also factors in action, but our __understanding__ of those structures and the way in which they function is mediated through discourse
Grondin 4<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa(David, “(Re)Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In this light, ...be considered as ontology</span>**</span>


=<span style="font-size: 120%;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Hegemony is Good Kritik</span>**</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 120%;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">I <3 america 1NC</span>**</span>== 
**The Affirmative’s criticism of American policy is dangerous – it contributes to isolationism and the eventual collapse of U.S. primacy**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span>**__Kagan__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History from American University, “The Benevolent Empire,” Foreign Policy. Summer, 19</span>**__98__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=275, </span>

<span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Those contributing to ...</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> next American humbling.</span>
This intellectual arrogance will get us killed – the debating and whining needs to end so we can face realistic threats

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victor Davis </span>**__Hanson__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution and Professor Emeritus at California University, Fresno, Ph.D. from Stanford, “We Could Still Lose.” National Review Online. August 11, 20</span>**__03__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/3050721.html, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If one were ...</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;"> they pass away</span>__</span>.



Ceding to the affirmative’s antics is suicide – the only risk of international violence is a world in which the U.S. succumbs to internal criticism
Thomas **__Sowell__**, Senior Fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, November 16, 20**__06__**. “Where is the West?” http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell110906.php3,
European nations protesting ...<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">being annihilated ourselves?</span>__</span>

The failure to embrace violent solutions guarantees foreign aggression from Iran and other violent regimes – their criticism is an open invitation to a new generation of Hitlers
Thomas **__Sowell__**, Senior Fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, July 24, 20**__07__**. “Morally Paralyzed,” http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell072407.php3,

<span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">"Moral paralysis"</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a ...</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ally paralyzed, perhaps fatally?</span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The result is wars around globe</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Peter </span>**__Rosen__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University and director of its Olin Institute for Strategic Studies, The National Interest. “An Empire, if You Can Keep It.” March 22, 20</span>**__03__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/ is_2003_Spring/ai_99377575</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As for imperial ...</span> much more attractive.



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The alternative is to vote negative to align yourself with American hegemony.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The only tangible threat to US primacy is isolationism – rhetoric of support is critical to preserving international stability</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William </span>**__Kristol__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Visiting Professor in Government at Harvard University, </span>**__and__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**__Kagan__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History, “Toward a Neo-Reganite Foreign Policy,” Foreign Affairs. July/August 19</span>**__96__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=276, </span>
BENEVOLENT HEGEMONYTWENTY ... and moral confidence.

==Reagan Smash 2NC== 

<span class="reduce2" style="font-size: 7pt;"> **And, U.S. leadership precludes international hostility and violence, it’s the solution to all modern forms of instability**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zalmay </span>**__Khalilzad__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations,19</span>**__95__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. "Losing the Moment? The United States and the World After the Cold War" The Washington Quarterly, RETHINKING GRAND STRATEGY; Vol. 18, No. 2; Pg. 84. </span>

<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Under the third ...</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of power system.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Be skeptical of their authors—they have a vested interest in downplaying the need for military force.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Sowell 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas, Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, graduated from Harvard and received doctorate at UChicago in economics, pretty much a total badass, “Intellectuals and Society”, loc 5443-58, kindle, )</span>

Intellectuals have every ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it becomes dangerous.</span>

==A2: Self Fulfilling Prophecy (lies)== 
**Self-fulfilling prophecy is backwards – failure to express our fears causes them to occur**

**Macy 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Joanna Macy, General Systems Scholar and Deep Ecologist, 1995, Ecopsychology </span>

__There is__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">also </span>__...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to that very fate. </span>