[[toc]]
= = 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 160%;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harker (CA) - Muralikrishna(Murali) Joshi|CHECK MURALI'S WIKI FOR HARKER DISCLOSURE!!! ]]</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 160%;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harker (CA) - Muralikrishna(Murali) Joshi|CHECK MURALI'S WIKI FOR HARKER DISCLOSURE!!! ]]</span>= 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 


===[[#September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 2.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 20.5833px;">Veg AC (option 1)</span>=== 


Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Law defines "recognize" as:





[[http://research.lawyers.com/glossary/recognize.html]] Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Law. 2001.





"to acknowledge formally and to admit as being of a particular status"

Aff doesn't defend enforcement of a particular policy.


The squo is present tense.


Neg Burden: Prove that justice does not requires the recognition of animal rights.

1. Ground - Most equitable ground.

2. Reciporcity - Permissibility is non-reciprocal.

T & theory should be based on reasonability.

1. Brightline - <span style="border-bottom: 3px double; color: green; text-decoration: none;">[[home|winning]]</span> beyond doubt

2. Competing interps create massive neg skew in race to bottom

3. Magnifies time skew of 1AR

4. Discourages debates on topic - reject on face

V - Justice, giving each his/her due

Standard - maximizing life

1. Justice is a human construct. Humans act based on utilitarianism

Unmasking the Motives of the Good Samaritan. By Claire Andre and Manuel Velasquez [Professors at SCU] [[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/iie/v2n1/samaritan.html]] Issue in ethics - Winter 1989.
You are likely...for their own welfare.

2. Life is prerequisite to valuing anything else.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Douglas Den **__Uyl__** **__and__** Douglas **__Rasmussen__**, Professors of Philosophy, Bellarmine <span style="border-bottom: 3px double; color: green; text-decoration: none;">[[home|College]]</span> and St. John's <span style="border-bottom: 3px double; color: green; text-decoration: none;">[[home|University]]</span>, READING NOZICK, Jeffrey Paul, ed., 1981, p245. (PDNSS1794)</span>

In so far as one chooses...makes valuation possible.

3. Resolution does not specify agent. All moral theories must not be agent-specific, only consequentialism is.

Philip Pettit [Prof. Philosophy, Princeton]. “Non-Consequentialism And Political Philosophy.” Enfoques, año/vol. XVIII, número 1-2. PP. 27-49 (2006)

In my earlier characterisation...by those principles.

Functionality comes before normative principles.

4. Competing meta-ethics means we ought to simply prevent extinction.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Nick **__Bostrom ‘11__**, “The Concept of Existential Risk”, 2011, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy [[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.html]]</span>

These reflections on moral uncertainty...is the best one.

5. Justice requires giving each their due, humans are inherently equal considering our statuses as rational beings. - Utilitarnianism is the internal link to egalitarianism.

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">WHAT, IF ANYTHING, RENDERS ALL HUMANS MORALLY EQUAL?1 [published in Peter Singer and His Critics, ed. by Dale <span style="border-bottom: 3px double; color: green; text-decoration: none;">[[home|Jamieson]]</span> (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)] Richard J. Arneson February, 1998</span>

All humans have an ... moral equality of all humans.


Ronald Dworkin, Taking Rights Seriously, 1977, p. 234. MJ.


The utilitarian argument,……beholden to them.

I advocate that justice requires the recognition of animal rights because it maximizes life.


First is the Uniqueness:


The meat industry is on the rise.


Danielle Nierenberg, Happier Meals: Rethinking the Global Meat Industry, Worldwatch Paper 171, State of the World Library 2005.


Over the last half…..the impacts of these farms.

====[[#September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 2.0-Advantage 1 is Biodiversity]]Advantage 1 is Biodiversity==== 


Livestock farming causes massive amounts of biodiversity loss and supercharges climate change impact.


Oxfam Novib, “People, planet and proteins: toward a just and sustainable livestock system”, October 29, 2010, [[http://www.oxfamnovib.nl/Pub/2010-Nr-5-English/2010-Nr-5-English-people-planet-proteins.html]] national organization that produces research reports that governments use to guide action.


Livestock farming causes……. impact on poor communities.


The aff solves, as forests can regenerate along with biodiversity in the absence of livestock production in these regions.


Robert Goodland[1] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009


As there is……has been foregone.


And, loss of biodiversity causes ecosystem destruction and extinction of all life.


Diner, 94 [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]


To accept that………. closer to the abyss.


====[[#September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 2.0-Advantage 2 is Warming]]Advantage 2 is Warming==== 


Livestock account for more than 51% of all GHG’s. This excludes transportation emissions.


Robert Goodland[2] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009


Livestock are already………understood as conservative.


Livestock reduction is the only solution. Renewable energy does not solve. The aff solves by eliminating need for livestock completely.


Robert Goodland[3] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009


A key risk factor………………. world food and water crises.


Impact: Runaway global warming leads to extinction.


Hsu, Systems Engineering & Risk Management, 10

(Dr. Feng Hsu, “Harnessing the Sun”, Winter 2010, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]], KJ)


The evidence of………….. and energy issues.

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Dolphins Plan AC 1.0 </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I affirm. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The context of the resolution is status quo as the word “requires” is in the present tense.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Oxford Dictionary of Politics defines “animals rights”:</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.answers.com/library/Political+Dictionary-cid-2216326]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">. Oxford Dictionary of Politics. January 1st 2009. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">“The claim that…….politically enforced rights.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore, aff has to defend enforcement of a particular policy by a government. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I value justice, which is defined by Velasquez et. al as:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">“Justice and Fairness” Developed by Manuel Velasquez, Claire Andre, Thomas Shanks, S.J., and Michael J. Meyer Markkula Center for Applied Ethics Santa Clara University //Issues in Ethics// V3 N2 (Spring 1990) </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/practicing/decision/justice.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">In fact, no idea…….politically enforced rights.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore, aff has to defend enforcement of a particular policy by a government. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I value justice, which is defined by Velasquez et. al as:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">“Justice and Fairness” Developed by Manuel Velasquez, Claire Andre, Thomas Shanks, S.J., and Michael J. Meyer Markkula Center for Applied Ethics Santa Clara University //Issues in Ethics// V3 N2 (Spring 1990) </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/practicing/decision/justice.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">In fact, no idea…….equality of all humans.3</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore, justice requires a system that promotes egalitarianism because equal humans are due equal consideration. And, Util is the internal link to egalitarianism. Dworkin</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Ronald Dworkin, Taking Rights Seriously, 1977, p. 234. MJ.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">The utilitarian argument…….</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">beholden to them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">2. Justice is a human construct, developed by philosophers who are ultimately human. Norms of justice seek to evaluate human action. The way humans empirically decide to act is via utilitarianism – maximizing the net good for society. Andre and Velasquez </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> Unmasking the Motives of the Good Samaritan. By Claire Andre and Manuel Velasquez [Professors at SCU] </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/iie/v2n1/samaritan.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> Issue in ethics - Winter 1989.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">You are likely……. their own welfare.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore, it is just to give animals rights if it maximizes the self-interest of humanity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">3. The nature of state actions means that states must use utilitarian ethics. Robert Goodin writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Robert Goodin. Fellow of philosophy at Australian National University, 1990 (The Utilitarian Response)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Whatever its shortcomings……..</span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">highly attractive proposition.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">4. The competing reflections on what is just and what isn’t in the domain of metaethics mean we ought to prevent extinction to allow these theories to develop and solidify into a coherent guide for action.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Nick Bostrom ‘11, “The Concept of Existential Risk”, 2011, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">These reflections on…… is the best one.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Plan: The USFG should ban the use of low-frequency active sonar.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I contend that Low Frequency Sonar harms marine ecosystems.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">First, The US Navy uses LFA sonar.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">United States Navy in ‘8, “Navy responds to recent LFA Sonar ruling”, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.navy.mil/search/display.asp?story_id=34854]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> 2/7/2008 9:12:00 AM</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The Navy issued…….. in coastal areas.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">LFA kills massive numbers of dolphins and whales.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Michael Russ in ‘1 19 April 2001“Whales, Dolphins and all Marine Life are being threatened” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://wellnessgoods.com/navysonar.asp]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">SURTASS LFA Sonar…….. preserving the silence?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">LFA Sonar causes extinction of marine mammals.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Jean-Michael Cousteau in ‘1, James Taylor, Pierce Brosnan, and Jean-Michael Cousteau, June 2001, Celebrities Reach Out, Former Executive Director of the Cousteau Foundation which is a leading marine conservation organization. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.songofhome.com/LFAS.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The three of us…… and your concern. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Whales are key to zooplankton control, which is key to preventing human extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Robbins Barstow, PhD, Volunteer Executive Director, Cetacean Society International, SONAR, The Magazine of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society, No. 2, Autumn. 1989 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.highnorth.no/library/movements/general/be-wh-s2.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Second, whales are…….. whales are unique! </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Dolphins and whales are key to sustenance of the marine ecosystem.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Mundo Azul, [no date given] “Dolphins and Whales”, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.mundoazul.org/deutsch/dolphins_whales0.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The conservation of whales…….. damage sustainable fisheries. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Loss of marine biodiversity risks extinction of most life on earth</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Craig Indiana University, Robin Kundis, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, p. 264-266</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function………. biosphere with us.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Extinction should weigh as the largest impact under any framework. Extinction comes first. Schell: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Jonathan Schell The Fate of the Earth, p.95[[http://debate.uvm.edu/Library/DebateTheoryLibrary/Roskoski-Infinite%20Risk|__http://debate.uvm.edu/Library/DebateTheoryLibrary/Roskoski-Infinite%20Risk__]] Schell[1] concludes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Up to now,……. get another chance.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">And, the plan is the only way to solve. The Navy’s evidence about LFA being benign is flawed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Marsha L. Green, [no date given] “The US Navy's Low Frequency Active Sonar: Cause for Concern”, Ph.D., Ocean Mammal Institute, [[http://www.oceanmammalinst.com/mgpaper.html#lfa9798|http://www.oceanmammalinst.com/mgpaper.html#lfa9798]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Available evidence…….. this damaging technology.</span>
====**__Vegetarianism AC (option 2)__**==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Law defines "recognize" as: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">[[http://research.lawyers.com/glossary/recognize.html]] Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Law. 2001. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">"to acknowledge formally and to admit as being of a particular status" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Aff doesn't defend enforcement of a particular policy. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">The squo is present tense. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Neg Burden: Prove that justice does not requires the recognition of animal rights. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">1. Ground - Most equitable ground.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">2. Reciporcity - Permissibility is non-reciprocal. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Prefer aff interp in the absence </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">1) NC can adapt to the AC, AC can't adapt to NC. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">2) Without preference, neg can run theory on minute issues causing time skew in the 1AR. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Value is justice, giving each their due. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Standard is maximizing life. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">1. Justice requires giving each their due, humans are inherently equal considering our statuses as rational beings. - </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Utilitarnianism is the internal link to egalitarianism. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Ronald Dworkin, Taking Rights Seriously, 1977, p. 234. MJ.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">The utilitarian argument,……beholden to them. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">2. Justice is a human construct, developed by philosophers who are ultimately human. Norms of justice seek to evaluate human action. The way humans empirically decide to act is via utilitarianism – maximizing the net good for society.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Moore – law prof, U San Diego – ‘97 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Michael Moore, Warren Distinguished Professor of Law at University of San Diego School of Law, 1997, Placing Blame, p. 719-722</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Non-Absolute Moral Norms:……… tor­turing the innocent.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">3. Not advocating utilitarianism allows the one to avoid tough choices while protecting their consciences – this is the nadir of any conception of justice and morality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Alinsky – ‘71 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Saul D. Alinsky, Activist, Professor, and Social Organizer with International Fame, Founder of the Industrial Areas Foundation, Rules for Radicals, 1971, p. 24-27</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">We cannot think…….. is life or death.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">4. Extinction comes first.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Jonathan Schell The Fate of the Earth, p.95 [[http://debate.uvm.edu/Library/DebateTheoryLibrary/Roskoski-Infinite%20Risk]]</span>

Up to now, every……..get another chance.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">5. Util- cost benefit analysis necessary in the context of the resolution:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Hills 2005—Alison, lecturer in philosophy at the University of Bristol, research fellow at Clare College, Do Animals Have Rights?, p. 176</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Death is bad for…..farmed and slaughtered.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">I advocate that justice requires the recognition of animal rights because it maximizes life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">First is the Uniqueness:</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">The meat industry is on the rise.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Danielle Nierenberg, Happier Meals: Rethinking the Global Meat Industry, Worldwatch Paper 171, State of the World Library 2005.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Over the last half…..the impacts of these farms.</span>

====[[#September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 1.0-Advantage 1 is Biodiversity]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Advantage 1 is Biodiversity</span>**==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Livestock farming causes massive amounts of biodiversity loss and supercharges climate change impact.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Oxfam Novib, “People, planet and proteins: toward a just and sustainable livestock system”, October 29, 2010, [[http://www.oxfamnovib.nl/Pub/2010-Nr-5-English/2010-Nr-5-English-people-planet-proteins.html]] national organization that produces research reports that governments use to guide action.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Livestock farming causes……. impact on poor communities.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">The aff solves, as forests can regenerate along with biodiversity in the absence of livestock production in these regions.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Robert Goodland[1] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">As there is……has been foregone.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">And, loss of biodiversity causes ecosystem destruction and extinction of all life.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> Diner, 94 [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> To accept that………. closer to the abyss. </span>

====[[#September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 1.0-Advantage 2 is Warming]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Advantage 2 is Warming</span>**==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Livestock account for more than 51% of all GHG’s. This excludes transportation emissions.</span>

Robert Goodland[2] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Livestock are already………understood as conservative.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Livestock reduction is the only solution. Renewable energy does not solve. The aff solves by eliminating need for livestock completely.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Robert Goodland[3] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">A key risk factor………………. world food and water crises.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Impact: Runaway global warming leads to extinction.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Hsu, Systems Engineering & Risk Management, 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">(Dr. Feng Hsu, “Harnessing the Sun”, Winter 2010, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]], KJ)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">The evidence of………….. and energy issues.</span>

==Negative== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 20.5833px;">Bio-Medical Research DA 1.0 </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">A. Uniqueness and Brink - The animal rights movement is pushing for an end to animal testing but won’t succeed now</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">(Deborah-, June 12, Wisconsin State Journal, “Local animal rights activists are making strides with new tactics”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/%20%0darticle_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html|http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/ ]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/%20%0darticle_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html|article_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">After many years of laboring . . . terms of affecting the status quo</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> B. Links and Internal Links: Recognizing animal rights would shatter current ethical systems imperiling testing that’s key to prevent the spread of disease and HIV turning their ethics arguments</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px; text-decoration: none;">Smith ’10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">(Wesley J.-, //A Rat Is a Pig Is a Dog Is a Boy: The Human Cost of the Animal Rights Movement//, P. 246-249)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Why seek to breach . . . importance of human life</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">C. Impact HIV risks extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Mutuma Mathiu, Africa News, July 15, 2000</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Aids the vector is humanity . . . so hopelessly in jeopardy</span>

===[[#September-October-Negative-Bio-Medical Research DA 2.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Bio-Medical Research DA 2.0</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A. Uniqueness and Brink - The animal rights movement is pushing for an end to animal testing but won’t succeed now</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">(Deborah-, June 12, Wisconsin State Journal, “Local animal rights activists are making strides with new tactics”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/%20%0darticle_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html|http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/%20%0darticle_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html|article_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">After many years of laboring . . . terms of affecting the status quo</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> B. Links and Internal Links: Recognizing animal rights would shatter current ethical systems imperiling testing that’s key to prevent the spread of disease and HIV turning their ethics arguments</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; text-decoration: none;">Smith ’10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">(Wesley J.-, //A Rat Is a Pig Is a Dog Is a Boy: The Human Cost of the Animal Rights Movement//, P. 246-249)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Why seek to breach . . . importance of human life</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">C. Impact: New pandemics will inevitably emerge - without vaccines they cause extinction. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Yu. 2009. Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate. Darthmouth Journal of Undergraduate Science. [[http://dujs.darthmouth.edu/spring-2009/hum-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]</span>


===[[#September-October-Negative-Animal Rights Economy DA 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 20.5833px;">Animal Rights Economy DA 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">A. Link and Internal Links - A shift towards animal rights would tank the economy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px; text-decoration: none;">Kniaz ’95</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">(JD University of Buffalo, Animal Liberation and the Law: Animals Board the Underground Railroad)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">In the United States, the interests . . . state of the economy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">B. Impact - U.S. Economic Decline Goes Global Leading to Resource Conflicts, Nuclear Wars and Extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px; text-decoration: none;">Newsflavor ‘9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">(April 9, “Will an Economic Collapse Kill You?” [[http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">It may or may not sound likely . . . us in the 21st century</span>

===[[#September-October-Negative-Identity Politics K 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 20.5833px;">Identity Politics K 1.0 </span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 1**: Granting rights to animals based on shared characteristics with humans reinforces the dichotomy between humans and animals –their appeal to a system of animal rights links </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“Unlike Singer, Tom..….are like us.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 2:** Independently, Their appeal to “animal” rights is a violent conceptual move which locks in the human/non-human binary which legitimates our ability to exploit and harm Others of different species.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">David Wood, Philosophy—Vanderbilt, 2004, Animal Philosophy: Essential Readings in Continental Thought, ed. Calarco, Atterton, Singer, p. 132-3</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“The title of…….the abyss remain?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 3:** Identifying that animals need help from humans, and that they are being oppressed leads to victimization, it just perpetuates the cycle of oppression even longer. It enforces that humans can give and take away rights, and reinforces the animal human dichotomy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">If we have learned …..them equal treatment?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 4:** Even if rights are protections, it just increases securitization of animals, and as a result increases oppression and shackling of these creatures.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“Rights defined as protections..….terms of human rights.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 5:** Moral theories that base rights on commonality with humans give us no guidance in conflicts, which is the purpose of morality and rights theories.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“Ironically, the differences…….between soymilk and Kahlúa.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 6:** Specifying animals to give rights to, or theories that base rights on commonality with humans is hypocratic and allows man to act with the hand of god: It entrenches the ideology of infinite violence against the other.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“Because of the exclusionary …. must go beyond rights.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 7:** Social Contract Theories require consent as part of a moral agreement, which has also been used to subordinate the other.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“Feminists also have……long as they consent.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 8:** Using suffering as a rights determinant, a. again links into Oliver one, and measures rights based on characteristics, but b. puts an infinite responsibility on us, that violates us ontologically.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“But what does consent mean when it becomes a matter of freely participating in one’s …. to the suffering of others? It is a question of response and relationship rather than a question of capacity or identity.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 9:** Suffering is not a unique capacity, it just possesses us and makes us weaker. It makes us less unique in that it doesn’t give us rights, it takes more away from use.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“Like Bentham-inspired animal rights advocates such as Singer and Regan…. It is the limit of the human in the face of the animal (cf. Wolfe et al. 2008, 25–26).”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Link 10:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14.6667px;">Even if rights are protections, it just increases securitization of animals, and as a result increases oppression.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights? </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Kelly Oliver The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">"Rights defined as protections...consider animal rights"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Impacts**: First, the human/animal dichotomy the aff entrenches is the nexus point of all oppression – this turns the aff in their own framework </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“Philosophical debates over …….the history of Western thought.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">AND, the kritik link turns the aff – their appeal to animal rights ensures continued subjugation of all entities</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“So far, we have considered ……..and humanity remain in place. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">**Alternative:** Reject the affirmative’s focus on animal rights in favor of an ethic a shared planet – this is the only way to ensure real progress for all entities</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Kelly Oliver ,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;"> (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">“Given that we are …. inhabitants of a shared planet?”</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

==Look at Harker SP== 
== == 
==Negative== 

**Look at Harker SP**

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]