=Jan/Feb= 
Evolution AC
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Victims of domestic violence are contextualized by the U.S. Department of Justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.ovw.usdoj.gov/domviolence.htm</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A) Epistemology</span>

When trying to derive knowledge, naturalized epistemology best accesses truth through scientific rigor. Maffie writes,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">James Maffie. “Recent Work on Naturalized Epistemology.” //American Philosophical Quarterly//, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Oct., 1990), pp. 281-293. Illinois UP.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">B) Metaphysics</span>
Metaphysics goal is to describe the world around us and the way objects act and are. This process is most precise and most accurate under a naturalized ontology of physical realism. Williams writes,
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Donald Williams. “Naturalism and the Nature of Things.” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 53, No. 5 (Sep., 1944), pp. 417-443. Duke UP. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2181355</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>
C) Moral Context
We cannot argue about non-natural properties. Non-real evaluations remove all meaning from our discussions. Edwards 1 writes,
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">P. Wesley Edwards. A Darwinian Approach to Meta-ethics. Free Thought Debater. August 2004. Google.</span>

The Meta-ethic: 
Morality has been created via evolution as a way of enabling the coexistence of rationality and the biological imperative to reproduce genes. Edwards 2 writes,
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">P. Wesley Edwards. A Darwinian Approach to Meta-ethics. Free Thought Debater. August 2004. Google.</span>

**AND**, all moral systems must serve to enhance the primary mechanism or else they would have no meaning. Rauscher writes,
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">FREDERICK RAUSCHER [Department of Philosophy Eastern Illinois University]. How a Kantian Can Accept Evolutionary Metaethics. Biology and Philosophy. 1997. SpringerLink</span>

Our naturalistic intuitive response to perceived threats is to trigger self-defense. Sherman writes,
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Psychology of Self-Defense: Self-Affirmation Theory. David K. Sherman [University of California, Santa Barbara], [Geoffrey L. Cohen Yale University]. March 28, 2006</span>


And, statistics prove—fighting back decreases abuse. DeNoon writes,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor. __Physical Assault__ **Women Who Fight Back Less Likely To Be Injured**</span>



__**Imminence Aff**__

**Contention 1: The logic of immanence is flawed**

**A. Current understandings of self defense require the victim to prove they reasonably thought their life was in "imminent" danger- that they would soon be killed. This legal doctrine takes an excessively narrow focus and excludes the context of relationships that are unique to the domestic sphere. Traditional moral and legal analysis fails to take into account the gendered context of domestic violence making it inadequate.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Many battered women who kill their abusers are charged with murder and</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">actions and the defendant's lethal response. n115</span>

**B. Gendered analysis reveals the biased nature of current moral reasoning. Morality must take context into account. Situational factors like different physical abilities, social leverage, unresponsiveness of the legal system, and the concept of "reason" make domestic violence uniquely different from other instances of self defense. This requires a different notion of what is morally permissible in response.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Another problem in self-defense jurisprudence for battered women relates to the fact that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the law of self-defense</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">opposed to victims of other types of violence.</span>

<span class="Underline">**C. Analysis of lesser alternatives to violence like leaving the relationship miss the point. Domestic violence creates a unique atmosphere of intimidation and anxiety. Repeated threats of violence and loss of life alter rational cost benefit assessments for the victim. Applying traditional "objective" analysis of the morality of self defense misses this point entirely.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">A related problem is the courts' perception of a woman's role in domestic violence situations. As is clear from Professor</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Certainly, that cannot be justice.</span>

**D. Gendered analysis proves self defense is morally permissible. A wide angle view of the gender politics at work in domestic violence reveals that ASD, or anticipatory self defense, is a morally acceptable response to repeated instances of domestic violence. This is supported by international and domestic legal precedent. While lethal violence may not be "imminent", the fact that it is rationally perceived as "inevitable" makes ASD morally permissible.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The heart</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> of this article __is whether it should be legal to permit an individual to rely on__ a theory</span>...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the law needs to consider the possibility of anticipatory self-defense</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>


**E.** **Use of Deadly Force Is Justified Because the Social Contract Has Been Broken by the State**
Elisabeth **Ayyildiz** [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 19**95**]. The American University Journal of Gender & the Law, 1995. 4 Am. U. J. Gender & Law 141. When Battered Woman's Syndrome does not go far Enough: The Battered Woman as Vigilante
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Vigilantism as a permissible mode of self-help for battered</span>__...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">at vigilantism is morally justified by the state's failure to uphold its end of the compact</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. n85 </span>

**F. Use of deadly force is necessary to preserve the victims autonomy- this makes it morally permissible**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Joshua </span><span class="Underline">**Dressler** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Professor of Law, Ohio State Univ. College of Law]. Battered Women and Sleeping Abusers: Some Reflections. 3 Ohio St. J Crim. L., 457, 200</span><span class="Underline">**6**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> I reject the forfeiture theory as morally unacceptable, although others may not. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Is there</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">there is a less extreme way to resolve the problem.</span>


**G. Only deadly force provides the victim with sufficient safety**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Elisabeth </span><span class="Underline">**Ayyildiz**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 19</span><span class="Underline">**95**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]. The American University Journal of Gender & the Law, 1995. 4 Am. U. J. Gender & Law 141. WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">To some, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the death of the abuser may</span>..
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">may not be available to the battered woman</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Contention 2:**

**A. Traditional descriptions of self defense require an immediate threat to the victims life. Applying this to domestic violence is inadequate because it ignores that domestic violence operates throw a slow burn campaign of terror, not brilliant flash points**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">This article posits that many </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">courts have engaged</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">imminent" fear of death or bodily harm. n10</span>



**B. This replicates a broader pattern of gendered politics in international relations. Issues of domestic violence are deemed less important that flashpoints of war on the agenda of policy makers. Gender analysis reveals that domestic violence and international violence are inextricably linked- they both operate as a result of a system of hierarchical, socially constructed gender binaries like public/private, inside/outside and self/other. Gender analysis of domestic violence is a crucial first step in shattering the global political context that makes international conflict possible.**
**Shepherd 09**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> [Laura J. Dept of Political Science and International Studies, U of Birmingham (UK), “Gender, Violence and Global Politics: Contemporary Debates in Feminist Security Studies,” Political Studies Review, V7 I2, Apr]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> According to conventional accounts of international relations (IR), scholars focus on</span>..
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">inform our research, with potentially profound implications. </span>


==Discourse Neg== 
**A. Domestic violence is a discourse produced to justify repressive and counterproductive crime control policies. Despite its particularly context in this debate, "domestic violence" is an apolitical tool, a "women's issue", that essentializes female identity at the exclusion of a more thorough interrogation into the way social inequality produces violence**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">KATHLEEN J. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">FERRARO</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">, PhD, Prof @ Arizona State Hypatia vol. 11, no. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">(Fall 19</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">96</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">In the 1990s, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"domestic violence</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">" </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">represents a convoluted, contradictory discourse</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">subvert the cooptation of our efforts to save our lives. </span>

**B. The affirmatives focus on domestic violence blinds us to the root cause of their impacts—defining violence in solely domestic terms obscures the broader problem of societal control which makes violence inevitable and turns the case**
**Hooks 2k**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—distinguished prof of English, City College, City U @ NY (Bell, Feminism is for everybody: passionate politics, GoogleBooks, 62-66,)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Just as a vast majority of citizens in this nation believe in equal pay for equal work </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">most</span>__...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">way they know to handle difficult situations.</span>

**A. Identifying someone as a victim is an attempt to dehumanize them and turn them into a political pawn. The category victim is so powerful that even rights and protections granted based on it are counterproductive**
**Elias 04**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert Elias, Professor of Politics, University of San Francisco, Winter, pg. 225, Lexis Nexis )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Since victimhood and offenderhood, and victim and offender labels, are inconsistent with a capacity for autonomy, they should be viewed only as temporary descriptions. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Claiming **rights for victims as victims**</span>__...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">everything but respect the victim's autonomy. n37</span>

**B. Discourse shapes reality. The linguistics of the resolution are the MOST important part. This is empirically proven by past "victim" representations- failure to interrogate the language of the resolution makes debate meaningless- it is a logical prior question to all arguments contained within the AC**
**Ryan 90**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Professor of English, Northeastern University.(Michael, 43 Vand. L. Rev. 1771, *, “SYMPOSIUM: Law, Literature, and Social Change: ARTICLE AND COMMENT: Social Violence and Political Representation.”, 43 Vand. L. Rev. 1771, Lexis Law) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Representations signify and produce</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> different kinds of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">attitudes and actions</span>__...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">images that are as much projections of desire as depictions of real things. </span>__

**C. Refusal to live a singular identity as the truth is the alternative. Deconstruction of the category "woman" provides an empirical example of the possitive effect discursive criticism can have on dangerous, static identity categories like victim. Voting negative doesn't endorse abuse, it endorses the idea that everyone should be free to express their identity in a way they see fit and not have category shackles imposed on them by the resolution**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">VERONICA</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> VASTERLING</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Hypatia vol. 14, no. 3 (Summer 19</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">99)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Moreover</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, it would be politically undesirable to reduce the exclusionary effects of</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> noncompulsive</span>...
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this category enable solidarity and empower feminist politics. </span>

=Nov/December= 
Cap AC

=AC= 

**Contention 1: Epistemology**

**First, An implicit assumption of the resolution is that there are different classes of people- those who are in need and those capable of assisting. Any normative moral theory must be able to explain this differentiation, why do people find themselves in different classes. Theories that assume a universal and equal human position are inadequate because they don't reflect the reality of the resolution- that different people will have different obligations depending upon their class. Thus the __epistemology__ for the debate must be __Marxist Class Analysis__. Our understanding of the ways in which society is constructed and how that affects our political imagination is a logical prerequisite to deciding the rest of the debate**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">Stephen </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Tumino</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">, professor of English at the University of Pittsburgh, "What is Orthodox Marxism and why it matters now more than ever," Red Critique, Spring 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">01</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">, accessed 1/3/10 http://www.redcritique.org/spring2001/whatisorthodoxmarxism.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Any effective political theory will have to</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> do at least two things: it will have to </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">offer an integrated understanding of social practices and</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">, based on such an interrelated knowledge, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">offer a guideline for praxis</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">. My main argument here is that among all contesting social theories now, only Orthodox Marxism has been able to produce an integrated knowledge of the existing social totality and provide lines of praxis that will lead to building a society free from necessity. But first I must clarify what I mean by Orthodox Marxism. Like all other modes and forms of political theory, the very theoretical identity of Orthodox Marxism is itself contested—not just from non-and anti-Marxists who question the very "real" (by which they mean the "practical" as under free-market criteria) existence of any kind of Marxism now but, perhaps more tellingly, from within the Marxist tradition itself. I will, therefore, first say what I regard to be the distinguishing marks of Orthodox Marxism and then outline a short polemical map of contestation over Orthodox Marxism within the Marxist theories now. I will end by arguing for its effectivity in bringing about a new society based not on human rights but on freedom from necessity. I will argue that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">to know contemporary society—and to be able to act on such knowledge—one has to first of all know whatmakes the existing social totality</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">. I will argue that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the dominant social totality is based on inequality</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">—not just inequality of power but inequality </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">of economic access</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> (which then determines access to health care, education, housing, diet, transportation, . . . ). </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">This systematic inequality cannot be explained by gender, race, sexuality, disability, ethnicity, or nationality. These are all secondary contradictions</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> and are all determined by the fundamental contradiction of capitalism which is inscribed in the relation of capital and labor. All modes of Marxism now explain social inequalities primarily on the basis of these secondary contradictions and in doing so—and this is my main argument—legitimate capitalism. Why? Because </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">such arguments</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> authorize capitalism without gender, race, discrimination and thus </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">accept economic inequality as an integral part of human societies. They accept a sunny capitalism</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">—a capitalism beyond capitalism. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Such a society</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, b</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">ased on cultural equality but economic inequality</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, has always been the not-so-hidden agenda of the bourgeois left</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">—whether it has been called "new left," "postmarxism," or "radical democracy." This is, by the way, the main reason for its popularity in the culture industry—from the academy (Jameson, Harvey, Haraway, Butler,. . . ) to daily politics (Michael Harrington, Ralph Nader, Jesse Jackson,. . . ) to. . . . For all, capitalism is here to stay and the best that can be done is to make its cruelties more tolerable, more humane. This humanization (not eradication) of capitalism is the sole goal of ALL contemporary lefts (marxism, feminism, anti-racism, queeries, . . . ). Such an understanding of social inequality is based on the fundamental understanding that the source of wealth is human knowledge and not human labor. That is, wealth is produced by the human mind and is thus free from the actual objective conditions that shape the historical relations of labor and capital. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Only Orthodox Marxism recognizes the historicity of labor and its primacy as the source of all human wealth.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> In this paper I argue that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">any emancipatory theory has to be founded on recognition of the priority of Marx's labor theory</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> of value and not repeat the technological determinism of corporate theory ("knowledge work") that masquerades as social theory. </span>
**Second, discussion of moral obligations cannot occur outside of a discussion about capitalism. Global capital structures not only our lives but also our systems of knowledge through its interactions with society and academia. To address "need" we must have a theory that can explain why there are some people in need. Need is produced through an unjust allocation of resources, an inevitable result of the capitalist economic system.**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Morgareidge 98</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">—Associate Professor of Philosophy at Lewis and Clark College</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">(Clayton, “Why Capitalism is Evil”, Radio Active Philosophy, Lewis and Clark Educational Papers, http://legacy.lclark.edu/~clayton/commentaries/evil.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Well, </span>__what is the foundation of moral life? What makes it possible for human beings to recognize that they have responsibilities to each other and to their communities?__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">For example: </span>__What could possibly make anyone willing to pay living wages to workers in Indonesia or Haiti if you can get them to work for less?__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">The 18th Century philosopher David Hume asks, What reason can anyone give me to not to prefer the annihilation of all mankind to a scratch on my finger? Hume is one of many philosophers who argue that no such reason can be given. </span>__This means that the foundation of ethics lies not in reason, but rather in our passions or our hearts. For Hume it is part of our nature that we feel sympathy for each other, and this sympathy counters our narrow self-interest.__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Other philosophers have taken similar positions. </span>__Josiah Royce an American philosopher of the last century argued that you do not really understand another person if you do not understand her aspirations, fears, and needs. But to understand someone's feelings is, in part, to share them. And you cannot share an aspiration or a need without wanting to see it fulfilled, nor can you share a fear without hoping that it will not come to pass. So the mere recognition of what other human beings are involves us in wanting to see them live and prosper. The French-Jewish philosopher EmmanualLevinás whose major work appeared in 1961 claims that ethics arises in the experience of the face of the other__<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>__The human face reveals its capacity for suffering, a suffering we are capable of either inflicting or opposing.__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">So to look into the face of another human being is to //see// the commandment, Thou shalt not kill. Another American philosopher, NelNoddings, in her 1984 book </span>__Caring__<span style="font-size: 8px;">, argues that the ethical commitment arises out of the caring response that most of us feel towards those who, like children, are in need. Most parents encourage this caring response in their children, with the result that we grow up with an interest in cultivating our own capacity to care for others. </span>__Now none of these philosophers are naive: none of them thinks that sympathy, love, or caring determines all, or even most, human behavior. The 20th century proves otherwise__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. What they do offer, though, is the hope that human beings have the //capacity// to want the best for each other</span>__. So now we must ask, What forces are at work in our world to block or cripple the ethical response? This question, of course, brings me back to capitalism.__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> But before I go there, I want to acknowledge that capitalism is not the only thing that blocks our ability to care. Exploitation and cruelty were around long before the economic system of capitalism came to be, and the temptation to use and abuse others will probably survive in any future society that might supersede capitalism. Nevertheless, I want to claim, </span>__the putting the world at the disposal of those with capital has done more damage to the ethical life than any thing else. To put it in religious terms, capital is the devil.__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">To show why this is the case, let me turn to capital's greatest critic, Karl Marx. </span>__Under capitalism__<span style="font-size: 8px;">, Marx writes, </span>__everything in nature and everything that human beings are and can do becomes an object: a resource for, or an obstacle, to the expansion of production, the development of technology, the growth of markets, and the circulation of money. For those who manage and live from capital, nothing has value of its own. Mountain streams, clean air, human lives -- all mean nothing in themselves, but are valuable only if they can be used to turn a profit.<span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://legacy.lclark.edu/%7Eclayton/commentaries/evil.html#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> If capital looks at (not into) the human face, it sees there only eyes through which brand names and advertising can enter and mouths that can demand and consume food, drink, and tobacco products. If human faces express needs, then either products can be manufactured to meet, or seem to meet, those needs, or else, if the needs are incompatible with the growth of capital, then the faces expressing them must be unrepresented or silenced.__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">Obviously what capitalist enterprises do have consequences for the well being of human beings and the planet we live on.</span>__Capital profits from the production of__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> food, shelter, and all </span>__the necessities of life__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>__The production of all these things uses human lives in the shape of labor, as well as the resources of the earth. If we care about life, if we see our obligations in each others faces, then we have to want all the things capital does to be governed by that care,to be directed by the ethical concern for life. But feeding people is not the aim of the food industry, or shelter the purpose of the housing industry. In medicine, making profits is becoming a more important goal than caring for sick people. As capitalist enterprises these activities aim single-mindedly at the accumulation of capital, and such purposes as caring for the sick or feeding the hungry becomes a mere means to an end, an instrument of corporate growth. Therefore ethics, the overriding commitment to meeting human need, is left out of deliberations about what the heavyweight institutions of our society are going to do.__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Moral convictions are expressed in churches, in living rooms, in letters to the editor, sometimes even by politicians and widely read commentators, but almost always with an attitude of resignation to the inevitable. </span>__People no longer say, "You can't stop progress," but only because they have learned not to call economic growth progress.__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> They still think they can't stop it. And they are right </span>__-- as long as the production of all our needs and the organization of our labor is carried out under private ownership. Only a minority ("idealists") can take seriously a way of thinking that counts for nothing in real world decision making. Only when the end of capitalism is on the table will ethics have a seat at the table.__

**Third, Recognition of this epistemology has 3 impacts**

**A. Theories that don't explicitly explain need should be unacceptable- while objectivism may be able to guide action descriptively, it has no explanatory power, and thus it is normatively unacceptable. The negative may offer a counter theory, but if it can't explain mass inequality you should deem it epistemologically inadequate. This also encourages topic specific research by preventing debaters from recycling metaethicsbackfiles ad nauseum**

**B. Prefer affirmative evidence- academic structures have been vertically integrated into the machine of capital. Abstract theorizing directly fuels capitalist accumulation by attempting to explain away the clear and present nature of exploitation.**

**C. Epistemology is logically prior to all other parts of the debate- how we form knowledge informs the conclusions we can draw.**
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Steve </span>**Smith,**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> professor at Aberystwyth, becoming Head of the Department of International Politics at the University of Wales BSc in Politics and International Studies in 1973, an MSc degree in International Studies in 1974 and a PhD degree in International Relations in 1978, all from the University of Southampton. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Power and truth: a reply to William Wallace </span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Review of International Studies (19</span>**97**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">), 23 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">My central claim is that </span><span class="Underline">Wallace has a very restricted notion of politics</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, such that it seems obvious to him just who are those who ‘have to struggle with the dilemmas of power’. For him </span><span class="Underline">the political arena is public and it refers to the formal political process</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, specifically involving the academic in ‘speaking truth to power’. I think that </span><span class="Underline">there are two</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> fundamental </span><span class="Underline">problems with this view</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of politics. First, </span><span class="Underline">it is very narrow</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> indeed, r</span>eferring to the activities of elected politicians and policy-makers.<span class="Underline"> It </span>ignores the massive area of political activity<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that is </span>not focused on the electoral and policy-making processes<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, and the host of ‘political’ activities that do not accord with the formal processes of politics. </span><span class="Underline">His is a very</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> official and </span><span class="Underline">formal definition</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of politics, one </span><span class="Underline">that would omit a vast array of political activities</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. For Wallace, ‘</span><span class="Underline">political’ means</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> having to do with the </span><span class="Underline">formal policy process, </span>__thereby<span class="Underline">restricting discussion</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">of politics </span>to a very small subset<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">of what I would define as political. Therefore, </span><span class="Underline">Wallace would see **detachment where I see engagement**;</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> hiding behind the walls of the monastery where I see deep enquiry into the possibilities of the political; and scholasticism where I see intellectual endeavour. Second, and for me more importantly, his view of politics is narrow because </span><span class="Underline">it confines itself to policy debates dealing with areas of disagreement between competing party positions.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The trouble with</span>this view<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> is of course that it </span>ignores the shared beliefs of any era, and so **does not enquire into those things that are not problematic for policy-makers**.By focusing on the policy debate, we restrict ourselves to the issues of the day, to the **tip of the political iceberg**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>What politics seems<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">to me to be </span><span class="Underline">**crucially about is how and why some issues are made intelligible as political problems and how others are hidden below the surface**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(being </span><span class="Underline">defined as ‘economic’ or ‘cultural’ or ‘private’</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">). In my own work I have become much more interested in this aspect of politics in the last few years. </span><span class="Underline">I spent a lot of time dealing with policy questions and can attest to the ‘buzz’ that this gave me</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> both professionally and personally. But I became increasingly aware that the realm of the political that I was dealing with was in fact a very small part of what I would now see as political. </span><span class="Underline">I</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> therefore </span><span class="Underline">spent</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> many </span><span class="Underline">years working on epistemology, and</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> in fact </span><span class="Underline">consider that my most political work</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. I am sure that William Wallace will regard this comment as proof of his central claim that I have become scholastic rather than scholarly, but I mean it absolutely. My current work enquires into how it is that we can make claims to knowledge,</span><span class="Underline">how it is that we ‘know’ things about the international political world</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. My main claim is that </span><span class="Underline">I</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nternational </span><span class="Underline">R</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">elations </span><span class="Underline">relies overwhelmingly on one answer to this question,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> namely, </span>an empiricist epistemology allied to a positivistic methodology<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. This gives the academic analyst the great benefit of having a foundation for claims about what the world is like. </span><span class="Underline">It makes **policy advice more saleable**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, especially when positivism’s commitment to naturalism means that the world can be presented as having certain furniture rather than other furniture. The problem is that in my view </span><span class="Underline">this </span>is <span class="Underline">a flawed version of how we know things</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">; indeed it is in fact </span><span class="Underline">**a very political view of knowledge**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, </span><span class="Underline">born of the Enlightenment with an explicit political purpose</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. So much follows politically from being able to present the world in this way; </span><span class="Underline">crucially </span>the **normative assumptions of this move are hidden in a false and seductive mask of objectivity**<span class="Underline"> and by the very difference between statements of fact and statements of value</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that is implied in the call to ‘speak truth to power’. For these reasons, I think that the political is a far wider arena than does Wallace. This means that I think I am being very political when I lecture or write on epistemology. </span><span class="Underline">Maybe that does not seem political to those who define politics as the public arena of policy debate; but I believe that my **work helps uncover the regimes of truth** within which that more restricted definition of politics operates</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In short, I think that </span><span class="Underline">Wallace’s view of politics ignores its most political aspect</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, namely, </span><span class="Underline">the production of discourses of truth which are the very processes that create the space for the narrower version of politics within which he works</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. My work enquires into how the current ‘politics’ get defined and what (political) interests benefit from that disarming division between the political and the non-political. In essence, </span><span class="Underline">**how we know things determines what we see, and the public realm of politics is itself the result of a prior series of (political) epistemological moves which result in the political being seen as either natural or a matter of common sense.**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(508-9)</span>



**Contention 2: Individuals are obligated to assist people in need.**

**First, Need is fundamentally about allocation of resources. In a capitalist system individuals are free to accumulate as much as they want. The result of rational, individualistic economic decisions in the aggregate is rampant economic inequality.**
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Hugh </span>**LaFollette**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Cole Chair in Ethics University of South Florida St. Petersburg "World Hunger" in Blackwell Companion to Applied Ethics ed. Ray Frey and Christopher Heath Wellman Blackwell 200</span>**3**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> http://www.hughlafollette.com/papers/World.Hunger.htm</span>
__The same economic, social, and political interdependencies that explain our mutual vulnerabilities suggest that we likely partially caused the starving people’s plight.Decisions__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> in one part of the world </span>__have economic ripples__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> elsewhere. Some ripples become tidal waves. We have no doubt about this when those waves crash onto our own economic shores. When OPEC hikes gasoline prices, it increases our costs of living and we are infuriated. When Japan boosts tariffs, it hits our wallets. </span>__When we are on the short end of the economic stick, we quickly recognize that others’ decisions__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">to sell or withhold goods or to increase tariffs </span>__negatively impacts our economies. Yet we conveniently forget the impact of our economies on others__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. </span>**__That is a factual and moral mistake__**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. For as potent as the actions of others are on us, our actions are even more significant for them. The West is economically so powerful that even seemingly insignificant actions can have dramatic effects, especially on Third World countries. </span>__These effects reveal two__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> different </span>__ways we__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> arguably </span>__cause the suffering of the world’s impoverished__ <span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">peoples. Consider two variations on a single analogy: In the first, </span>__place unwilling gladiators into an arena with lions. When some are killed, I cannot wash my hands of their deaths.__ <span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Although the lions—and not I—were the immediate cause of their deaths, </span>__I am responsible since I placed them in this vulnerable position.__ <span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Two, I do not place gladiators into this arena. Rather, I “offer” men in the region the “option” of becoming gladiators. I do so knowing full well that my arena is the only source of income in the area. I assuage my guilt by claiming that since these men have volunteered to fight the lions, then I am not responsible for their deaths. Nonetheless, </span>__by using their extreme vulnerability to get them to do what no sane person would do if they had an option, then I am still responsible for any harm that results__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. Again, we have no problem acknowledging this if we are the vulnerable parties; why should we deny it when we are the exploiters? </span>__Arguably w__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">e (partially) </span>__caused the plight__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> of the starving in one of these senses. </span>__We are highly advantaged people whose economic, social, and political institutions are “causally deeply entangled in the misery of the poor__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">” (2000; Pogge 1997: 505). Moreover, </span>__our relative social starting positions “have emerged from a single historical process that was pervaded by grievous wrongs”__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (509). That is why: “</span>__We should not tolerate such radical inequalities in social starting positions if the allocation of those positions depends upon historical processes in which all important moral__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (and legal</span>__) rules and principles were massively violated”__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (Ibid.). Admittedly, the causal networks of which Pogge speaks are astoundingly complex. That is why my gladiator example is somewhat disanalogous. In that case, I placed (or enticed) them into the arena with the lions. However, </span>__no one person or country single-handedly created the conditions which led to starvation. That is why no one is wholly responsible__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> for the plight of the impoverished and starving. </span>__Our__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">world and our </span>__global economy result from a confluence of factors, including the choices of billions of people over an extended time.__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Certainly some much smaller number of players, actors, and events, are especially significant in this causal chain. However, </span>__we rarely know precisely who caused what. Many of us assume this ignorance lets us off the moral hook.__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">I do not see why. </span>__We need not be the sole cause of an event to be__ <span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">(partially) </span>__responsible__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> for it. After all, we are never strictly the sole cause of any event: actions have consequences only within certain contexts and background conditions (Hart and Honoré 1973) [which is why the OPEC nations are not solely responsible for skyrocketing oil prices either</span>__!]. If we were morally responsible only for those things for which we were the sole cause, then arguably we would not be responsible for anything__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. And, if we were morally responsible only for those things for which we were the predominant cause, we would be responsible for very little. No doubt in select cases, where background conditions are predictably stable, we might feel justified in ascribing sole responsibility for some actions. But that is rare. For most of what is important in our lives, the question is not am I solely or even predominantly responsible for harm, but whether am I responsible enough? We must ask: did I play a sufficiently important role that it is proper to attribute responsibility to me—to blame me for mistakes (and to expect me to atone for them) or to praise me for my successes?</span>

**Second, Our desire for rational self interest DIRECTLY contributes to the deprivation of others, placing them in need. This makes us morally responsible.**
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Hugh </span>**LaFollette**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Cole Chair in Ethics University of South Florida St. Petersburg "World Hunger" in Blackwell Companion to Applied Ethics ed. Ray Frey and Christopher Heath Wellman Blackwell 200</span>**3**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> http://www.hughlafollette.com/papers/World.Hunger.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Some might think it is too strong to say that we caused the conditions that make widespread hunger likely. Even if that were true</span>**__, we often act in ways that sustainthe malnourished’s condition__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To use the earlier analogy, if I had nothing to do with placing people in the arena with the lions, but subsequently opened a chain of hotels catering to fans who come to watch, then my actions actively support the exploitative practice. I am partly responsible for the death of the gladiators. The relevance to world hunger is clear. </span>__We are voracious consumers__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__Because we want fresh fruits, coffee, and spices—and we want them at a minimal cost—we bring it about (cause) or support (sustain) efforts to convert an area’s most arable land’s from growing staples for the locals to growing niceties for us__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Sometimes </span>__this is devastating to the local poor__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (even if desired by the local rich), especially if the demand for these luxuries abates, as it often does. Further, </span>__in our quest for cheap goods, we financially reward those businesses engaging in exploitative__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> hiring </span>__practices__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">in the Third World, thereby partially </span>__causing the suffering of the vulnerable__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Wolff 2002). </span>__We__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> also </span>__politically support the international borrowing and resource privileges that **burden democratic regimes with debts generated by former dictators**__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, and that allow those dictators to legally abscond with the country’s natural resources (Pogge 2001b, pp. 20-1). Although we may occasionally complain about these (and other related) practices, the fact </span>__that we support them through our consumption and political decisions shows that we sustain the impoverishment of the worst off, and are thereby partial causes in their continuation__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Even if we do not actively support the systems that harm the impoverished, </span>__most people in the West__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">ern world </span>__benefit from the poor’s predicament and do nothing to stop it. In that way we are causal contributors__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> to their deprivation. Some might claim that our causal role—and our moral responsibility—are diminished since we simply failed to stop the harm. In other contexts, however, we recognize that inaction can causal harm. If a state fails to properly educate or provide affordable health care to its children, then the government has caused their illiteracy or ill-health; if a government fails to have an emergency system for coping with natural disasters, then it is responsible for deaths they could have prevented. And if I fail to stop as assault on a third party, especially if the cost or risk of intervening is minimal, then most of us will say that my inaction contributes to any harm befalling the victim. This is especially true if I benefit from that harm (the victim has me in her will). For then my refusal signals that my action is, in some sense, intentional.</span>

**Third, the end result of this inequality is structural violence. Structural violence is where death occurs not because one single individual made a conscious decision to engage in murder, but where because of millions of small decisions circumstances conspired to reduce the life expectancy of someone through no fault of their own. Structural violence due to economic inequality kills more people than any other impact**
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Mumia</span>**Abu-Jamal 98**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (http://www.angelfire.com/az/catchphraze/mumiaswords.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">It has often been observed that America is a truly violent nation, as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence that occurs daily in the nation. Every year, some 20,000 people are killed by others, and additional 20,000 folks kill themselves. Add to this the nonlethal violence that Americans daily inflict on each other, and we begin to see the tracings of a nation immersed in a fever of violence. But, as remarkable, and harrowing as this level and degree of violence is, it is, by far, not the most violent features of living in the midst of the American empire. </span>__We live__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, </span>__in a nation that condones and ignores wide-ranging "structural' violence, of a kind that destroys human life with a breathtaking ruthlessness__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. Former Massachusetts prison official and writer, Dr. James Gilligan observes; </span>__By "structural violence" I mean the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted by those who are above them__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. </span>__Those excess deaths (__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) </span>**__are a function of the class structure__**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">; </span>__and that structure is itself a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society.__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> These are not acts of God. I am contrasting "structural" with "behavioral violence" by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on. --(Gilligan, J., MD, Violence: Reflections On a National Epidemic (New York: Vintage, 1996), 192.) </span>__This form of violence__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, not covered by any of the majoritarian, corporate, ruling-class protected media, </span>__is invisible to us and because of its invisibility, all the more insidious__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. How dangerous is it--really? Gilligan notes: [</span>__E]very fifteen years,__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> on the average, </span>**__as many people die because of relative poverty as would be killed in a nuclear war that caused 232 million deaths__**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">; and every single year, </span>__two to three times as many people die from poverty throughout the world as were killed by the Nazi genocide of the Jews over a six-year period.This is__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, in effect, </span>__the equivalent of an ongoing__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, unending, in fact accelerating, </span>__thermonuclear war,__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> or genocide </span>__on the weak and poor every year of every decade,__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> throughout the world. [Gilligan, p. 196] Worse still, </span>__in a thoroughly capitalist society, much of that violence became internalized__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, turned back on the Self, because</span>__, in a society **based on the priority of wealth**__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, </span>__those who own nothing are taught to loathe themselves__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, as if something is inherently wrong with themselves, instead of the social order that promotes this self-loathing. This intense self-hatred was often manifested in familial violence as when the husband beats the wife, the wife smacks the son, and the kids fight each other. </span>__This vicious, circular, and invisible violence,__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> unacknowledged by the corporate media, </span>__uncriticized in substandard educational systems__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, and un- understood by the very folks who suffer in its grips, </span>__feeds on the spectacular and more common forms of violence that the system makes damn sure -that we can recognize and must react to it. This fatal and systematic violence may be called The War on the Poor. It is found in every country, submerged beneath the sands of history, buried, yet ever present, as omnipotent as death__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. In the struggles over the commons in Europe, when the peasants struggled and lost their battles for their commonal lands (a precursor to similar struggles throughout Africa and the Americas), this violence was sanctified, by church and crown, as the 'Divine Right of Kings' to the spoils of class battle. Scholars Frances Fox-Piven and Richard A Cloward wrote, in The New Class War (Pantheon, 1982/1985): They did not lose because landowners were immune to burning and preaching and rioting. They lost because the usurpations of owners were regularly defended by the legal authority and the armed force of the state. It was the state that imposed increased taxes or enforced the payment of increased rents, and evicted or jailed those who could not pay the resulting debts. It was the state that made lawful the appropriation by landowners of the forests, streams, and commons, and imposed terrifying penalties on those who persisted in claiming the old rights to these resources. It was the state that freed serfs or emancipated sharecroppers only to leave them landless. (52) </span>__The "Law", then, was a tool of the powerful to protect their interests__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, then, as now. It was </span>__a weapon against the poor and impoverished__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, then, as now. It punished retail violence, while turning a blind eye to the wholesale violence daily done by their class masters. The law was, and is, a tool of state power, utilized to protect the status quo, no matter how oppressive that status was, or is. </span>__Systems are essentially ways of doing things that have concretized into tradition,__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> and custom, without regard to the rightness of those ways. </span>__No system that causes this kind of harm to people should be allowed to remain__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, based solely upon its time in existence</span>__. Systems must serve life, or be discarded as a threat and a danger to life.__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Such systems must pass away, so that their great and terrible violence passes away with them. </span>



**Fourth, This makes assistance not only desirable but obligatory**
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Hugh </span>**LaFollette**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Cole Chair in Ethics University of South Florida St. Petersburg "World Hunger" in Blackwell Companion to Applied Ethics ed. Ray Frey and Christopher Heath Wellman Blackwell 200</span>**3**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> http://www.hughlafollette.com/papers/World.Hunger.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">We are watching television, and an advertisement for UNICEF, OXFAM, or the Christian Children’s Fund interrupts our favorite show. We grab our remotes and quickly flip to another channel. Perhaps we mosey to the kitchen for a snack. Maybe we just sit, trying not to watch. These </span>__machinations may banish__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> these </span>__haunting images of destitute, starving children__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">from our TVs and our thoughts</span>__, but they do not alter the brutal facts:millions__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> of people in the world </span>__are undernourished; thousands die each day;__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> most of those who suffer and die are children, </span>__and, with collective effort we could end the suffering of millions without too much strain.__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">At the same time, many of us talk as if we were nearly indigent. Relative to the rich in our society we may be financially strapped. But relative to most citizens of the world, we are awash with money. Given that, </span>__what, if anything, should we do, individually__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> or collectively, </span>__to alleviate their suffering__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> and save their lives? </span>__Most__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> of us </span>__interpret this as asking: should we be charitable__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, and, if so, how charitable? That seems to be the guiding premise of organizations who implore us to send money: they tell us to open our hearts, to be generous, to give of ourselves, to help those in need. The character of their appeal reveals just how pervasive the “charity view” is. </span>__We think__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> that </span>__although it would be nice__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> of us to assist the starving, </span>**__none of us is morally required to assist__**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">them—that </span>__we have done nothing__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (very) </span>__wrong if we ignore those strangers in need__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. Indeed, most people assume that if we help, then we are moral heroes. There are those rare voices admonishing us to give, proclaiming that our failure to assist is not just tight-fisted, but positively wrong. Some of these will claim our obligation is based on a right of the starving to our assistance (Li 1996; Shue 1996), while others who claim we have strong obligations to assist will eschew rights talk because their preferred ethical theories do not countenance them (Singer 1996/1972</span>__). But__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> all these thinkers emphatically reject the charity view. They aver that </span>__assisting the destitute is not a moral option **but a moral requirement**__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.</span>


**Fifth, our primary moral obligation is to deal with those excluded from the system of global capitalism. Arguments to the contrary are an attempt to hide the massive violence this system produces**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Glyn </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Daly</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, senior lecturer in politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College Northampton, Conversations With Zizek, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">2004</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, pp. 14-16</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gord­ian knot of postmodern protocol and recognize that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">our ethico-political responsibility is to confront the constitutive violence of today’s global capitalism and its obscene</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> naturalization/</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">anonymization of the millions who are subju­gated by it</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> throughout the world. Against the standardized positions of postmodern culture — with all its pieties con­cerning ‘multiculturalist’ etiquette — Zizek is arguing for a politics that might be called ‘radically incorrect’ in the sense that it breaks with these types of positions and focuses instead on the very organizing principles of today’s social reality: the principles of global liberal capitalism. This requires some care and subtlety. For far too long, Marxism has been bedevilled by an almost fetishistic economism that has tended towards political mor­bidity. With the likes of Hilferding and Gramsci, and more recently Laclau and Mouffe, crucial theoretical advances have been made that enable the transcendence of all forms of economism. In this new context, however, Zizek argues that the problem that now presents itself is almost that of the opposite fetish. That is to say, the prohibitive anxieties surrounding the taboo of economism can function as a way of not engaging with economic reality and as a way of im­plicitly accepting the latter as a basic horizon of existence. In an ironic Freudian-Lacanian twist, the fear of economism can end up reinforcing a de facto economic necessity in respect of contemporary capitalism (i.e. the initial prohibi­tion conjures up the very thing it fears). This is not to endorse any kind of retrograde return to economism. Zizek’s point is rather that in rejecting economism</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">we should not lose sight of the systemic power of capital in shaping the lives and destinies of humanity and our very sense of the possible</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">. In particular we should not overlook Marx’s central insight that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">in order to create a uni­versal global system the forces of capitalism seek to **conceal the politico-discursive violence** of its construction</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> through a kind of gentrification of that system. What is persistently denied by neo-liberals such as Rorty (1989) and Fukuyama (1992) is that the </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">gentrification of</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> global</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> liberal </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">capitalism</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> is one whose ‘universalism’ fundamentally reproduces and </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">depends upon a disavowed violence that **excludes vast sectors of the world’s population**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">. In this way, n</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">eo-liberal ideology attempts to naturalize capitalism by presenting its out­comes of winning and losing as if they were **simply a matter of chance and sound judgement in a neutral marketplace**.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> Capitalism does indeed create a space for a certain diver­sity, at least for the central capitalist regions, but it is neither neutral nor ideal and its price in terms of social exclusion is exorbitant. That is to say, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the human cost in terms of inherent **global poverty** and degraded ‘life-chances’ **cannot be calculated** within the existing economic rationale</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> and, in consequence, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">social exclusion remains mystified and name­less</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> (viz, the patronizing reference to the ‘developing world’. And Zizek’s point is that this mystification is mag­nified through capitalism’s profound capacity to ingest its own excesses and negativity: to redirect (or misdirect) social antagonisms and to absorb them within a culture of differ­ential affirmation. Instead of Bolshevism, the tendency today is towards a kind of political boutiquism that is readily sus­tained by postmodern forms of consumerism and lifestyle. Against this </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Zizek argues for a new universalism whose **primary ethical directive** is to confront the fact that our forms of social existence are founded on exclusion on a global scale.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">While it is perfectly true that universalism can never become Universal (it will always require a hegemonic-par­ticular embodiment in order to have any meaning), what is novel about Zizek’s universalism is that it would not attempt to conceal this fact or to reduce the status of the abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">OBJ Neg</span>=== 


=Objectivism – Negative Case= 



<span class="Underline">**Contention One – Our Framework is Competing Epistemologies.**</span>



<span class="Underline">**Epistemology is the foundation for ethics and philosophy – epistemology is how we construct Knowledge. In order to explain, compare and weigh values, we need to examine how we Understand the arguments that make up that philosophy. The examination of epistemology is a Rational, Conscious Choice – a necessary precondition to survival.** </span>



<span class="Underline">**Rand, 1961**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Ayn [[http://www.aynrand.org/site/PageServer?pagename=ari_ayn_rand_the_objectivist_ethics]] Paper delivered at the University of Wisconsin Symposium on “Ethics in Our Time” in Madison, Wisconsin, on February 9, 1961.</span>



<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Since I am to speak on the Objectivist Ethics, I shall begin by quoting its best representative—John Galt, in Atlas Shrugged: “Through centuries of scourges and disasters, brought about by your code of morality, you have cried that your code had been broken, that the scourges were punishment for breaking it, that men were too weak and too selfish to spill all the blood it required. You damned man, you damned existence, you damned this earth, but never dared to question your code. . . . You went on crying that your code was noble, but human nature was not good enough to practice it. And no one rose to ask the question: Good?—by what standard? “You wanted to know John Galt’s identity. I am the man who has asked that question. “Yes, this is an age of moral crisis. . . . Your moral code has reached its climax, the blind alley at the end of its course. And if you wish to go on living, what you now need is not to return to morality . . . but to discover it.” </span><span class="Underline">What is morality, or ethics? It is a code of values to guide man’s choices and actions—the choices and actions that determine the purpose and the course of his life</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Ethics, as a science, deals with discovering and defining such a code. </span><span class="Underline">The first question that has to be answered, as a precondition of any attempt to define</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, to judge or to accept any specific system of </span><span class="Underline">ethics, is: Why does man need a code of values? </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Let me stress this. The first question is not: What particular code of values should man accept? The first question is: Does man need values at all—and why? Is the concept of value, of “good or evil” an arbitrary human invention, unrelated to, underived from and unsupported by any facts of reality—or is it based on a metaphysical fact, on an unalterable condition of man’s existence? (I use the word “metaphysical” to mean: that which pertains to reality, to the nature of things, to existence.) Does an arbitrary human convention, a mere custom, decree that man must guide his actions by a set of principles—or is there a fact of reality that demands it? Is ethics the province of whims: of personal emotions, social edicts and mystic revelations—or is it the province of reason? Is ethics a subjective luxury—or an objective necessity? In the sorry record of the history of mankind’s ethics—with a few rare, and unsuccessful, exceptions—moralists have regarded ethics as the province of whims, that is: of the irrational. Some of them did so explicitly, by intention—others implicitly, by default. A “whim” is a desire experienced by a person who does not know and does not care to discover its cause. No philosopher has given a rational, objectively demonstrable, scientific answer to the question of why man needs a code of values. </span><span class="Underline">So long as that question remained unanswered, no rational, scientific, objective code of ethics could be discovered or defined. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The greatest of all philosophers, Aristotle, did not regard ethics as an exact science; he based his ethical system on observations of what the noble and wise men of his time chose to do, leaving unanswered the questions of: why they chose to do it and why he evaluated them as noble and wise. Most philosophers took the existence of ethics for granted, as the given, as a historical fact, and were not concerned with discovering its metaphysical cause or objective validation. Many of them attempted to break the traditional monopoly of mysticism in the field of ethics and, allegedly, to define a rational, scientific, nonreligious morality. But their attempts consisted of trying to justify them on social grounds, merely substituting society for God. The avowed mystics held the arbitrary, unaccountable “will of God” as the standard of the good and as the validation of their ethics. The neomystics replaced it with “the good of society,” thus collapsing into the circularity of a definition such as “the standard of the good is that which is good for society.” This meant, in logic—and, today, in worldwide practice—that “society” stands above any principles of ethics, since it is the source, standard and criterion of ethics, since “the good” is whatever it wills, whatever it happens to assert as its own welfare and pleasure. This meant that “society” may do anything it pleases, since “the good” is whatever it chooses to do because it chooses to do it. And—since there is no such entity as “society,” since society is only a number of individual men—this meant that some men (the majority or any gang that claims to be its spokesman) are ethically entitled to pursue any whims (or any atrocities) they desire to pursue, while other men are ethically obliged to spend their lives in the service of that gang’s desires. This could hardly be called rational, yet most philosophers have now decided to declare that reason has failed, that ethics is outside the power of reason, that no rational ethics can ever be defined, and that in the field of ethics—in the choice of his values, of his actions, of his pursuits, of his life’s goals—man must be guided by something other than reason. By what? Faith—instinct—intuition—revelation—feeling—taste—urge—wish—whim. Today, as in the past, most philosophers agree that the ultimate standard of ethics is whim (they call it “arbitrary postulate” or “subjective choice” or “emotional commitment”)-and the battle is only over the question of whose whim: one’s own or society’s or the dictator’s or God’s. Whatever else they may disagree about, today’s moralists agree that ethics is a subjective issue and that the three things barred from its field are: reason—mind—reality. If you wonder why the world is now collapsing to a lower and ever lower rung of hell, this is the reason. If you want to save civilization, it is this premise of modern ethics—and of all ethical history—that you must challenge. To challenge the basic premise of any discipline, one must begin at the beginning. In ethics, one must begin by asking: What are values? Why does man need them? “Value” is that which one acts to gain and/or keep. The concept “value” is not a primary; it presupposes an answer to the question: of value to whom and for what? It presupposes an entity capable of acting to achieve a goal in the face of an alternative. Where no alternative exists, no goals and no values are possible. I quote from Galt’s speech: “There is only one fundamental alternative in the universe: existence or nonexistence—and it pertains to a single class of entities: to living organisms. The existence of inanimate matter is unconditional, the existence of life is not: it depends on a specific course of action. Matter is indestructible, it changes its forms, but it cannot cease to exist. It is only a living organism that faces a constant alternative: the issue of life or death. Life is a process of self-sustaining and self-generated action. If an organism fails in that action, it dies; its chemical elements remain, but its life goes out of existence. It is only the concept of ‘Life’ that makes the concept of ‘Value’ possible. It is only to a living entity that things can be good or evil.” To make this point fully clear, try to imagine an immortal, indestructible robot, an entity which moves and acts, but which cannot be affected by anything, which cannot be changed in any respect, which cannot be damaged, injured or destroyed. Such an entity would not be able to have any values; it would have nothing to gain or to lose; it could not regard anything as for or against it, as serving or threatening its welfare, as fulfilling or frustrating its interests. It could have no interests and no goals. Only a living entity can have goals or can originate them. And it is only a living organism that has the capacity for self-generated, goal-directed action. On the physical level, the functions of all living organisms, from the simplest to the most complex—from the nutritive function in the single cell of an amoeba to the blood circulation in the body of a man—are actions generated by the organism itself and directed to a single goal: the maintenance of the organism’s life.1 An organism’s life depends on two factors: the material or fuel which it needs from the outside, from its physical background, and the action of its own body, the action of using that fuel properly. What standard determines what is proper in this context? The standard is the organism’s life, or: that which is required for the organism’s survival. No choice is open to an organism in this issue: that which is required for its survival is determined by its nature, by the kind of entity it is. Many variations, many forms of adaptation to its background are possible to an organism, including the possibility of existing for a while in a crippled, disabled or diseased condition, but the fundamental alternative of its existence remains the same: if an organism fails in the basic functions required by its nature—if an amoeba’s protoplasm stops assimilating food, or if a man’s heart stops beating—the organism dies. In a fundamental sense, stillness is the antithesis of life. Life can be kept in existence only by a constant process of self-sustaining action. The goal of that action, the ultimate value which, to be kept, must be gained through its every moment, is the organism’s life. An ultimate value is that final goal or end to which all lesser goals are the means—and it sets the standard by which all lesser goals are evaluated. </span><span class="Underline">An organism’s life is its standard of value: that which furthers its life is the good, that which threatens it is the evil. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Without an ultimate goal or end, there can be no lesser goals or means: a series of means going off into an infinite progression toward a nonexistent end is a metaphysical and epistemological impossibility. It is only an ultimate goal, an end in itself, that makes the existence of values possible. Metaphysically, life is the only phenomenon that is an end in itself: a value gained and kept by a constant process of action. </span><span class="Underline">Epistemologically, the concept of “value” is genetically dependent upon and derived from the antecedent concept of “life.”</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> To speak of “value” as apart from “life” is worse than a contradiction in terms. “It is only the concept of ‘Life’ that makes the concept of ‘Value’ possible.” In answer to those philosophers who claim that no relation can be established between ultimate ends or values and the facts of reality, let me stress that the fact that living entities exist and function necessitates the existence of values and of an ultimate value which for any given living entity is its own life. Thus the validation of value judgments is to be achieved by reference to the facts of reality. The fact that a living entity is, determines what it ought to do. So much for the issue of the relation between “is” and “ought.” Now in what manner does a human being discover the concept of “value”? By what means does he first become aware of the issue of “good or evil” in its simplest form? By means of the physical sensations of pleasure or pain. Just as sensations are the first step of the development of a human consciousness in the realm of cognition, so they are its first step in the realm of evaluation. The capacity to experience pleasure or pain is innate in a man’s body; it is part of his nature, part of the kind of entity he is. He has no choice about it, and he has no choice about the standard that determines what will make him experience the physical sensation of pleasure or of pain. What is that standard? His life. </span><span class="Underline">The pleasure-pain mechanism in the body of man</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—and in the bodies of all the living organisms that possess the faculty of consciousness—</span><span class="Underline">serves as an automatic guardian of the organism’s life.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The physical sensation of pleasure is a signal indicating that the organism is pursuing the right course of action. The physical sensation of pain is a warning signal of danger, indicating that the organism is pursuing the wrong course of action, that something is impairing the proper function of its body, which requires action to correct it. The best illustration of this can be seen in the rare, freak cases of children who are born without the capacity to experience physical pain; such children do not survive for long; they have no means of discovering what can injure them, no warning signals, and thus a minor cut can develop into a deadly infection, or a major illness can remain undetected until it is too late to fight it. Consciousness—for those living organisms which possess it—is the basic means of survival. The simpler organisms, such as plants, can survive by means of their automatic physical functions. The higher organisms, such as animals and man, cannot: their needs are more complex and the range of their actions is wider. The physical functions of their bodies can perform automatically only the task of using fuel, but cannot obtain that fuel. To obtain it, the higher organisms need the faculty of consciousness. A plant can obtain its food from the soil in which it grows. An animal has to hunt for it. Man has to produce it. A plant has no choice of action; the goals it pursues are automatic and innate, determined by its nature. Nourishment, water, sunlight are the values its nature has set it to seek. Its life is the standard of value directing its actions. There are alternatives in the conditions it encounters in its physical background—such as heat or frost, drought or flood—and there are certain actions which it is able to perform to combat adverse conditions, such as the ability of some plants to grow and crawl from under a rock to reach the sunlight. But whatever the conditions, there is no alternative in a plant’s function: it acts automatically to further its life, it cannot act for its own destruction. The range of actions required for the survival of the higher organisms is wider: it is proportionate to the range of their consciousness. The lower of the conscious species possess only the faculty of sensation, which is sufficient to direct their actions and provide for their needs. A sensation is produced by the automatic reaction of a sense organ to a stimulus from the outside world; it lasts for the duration of the immediate moment, as long as the stimulus lasts and no longer. Sensations are an automatic response, an automatic form of knowledge, which a consiousness can neither seek nor evade. An organism that possesses only the faculty of sensation is guided by the pleasure-pain mechanism of its body, that is: by an automatic knowledge and an automatic code of values. Its life is the standard of value directing its actions. Within the range of action possible to it, it acts automatically to further its life and cannot act for its own destruction. The higher organisms possess a much more potent form of consciousness: they possess the faculty of retaining sensations, which is the faculty of perception. A “perception” is a group of sensations automatically retained and integrated by the brain of a living organism, which gives it the ability to be aware, not of single stimuli, but of entities, of things. An animal is guided, not merely by immediate sensations, but by percepts. Its actions are not single, discrete responses to single, separate stimuli, but are directed by an integrated awareness of the perceptual reality confronting it. It is able to grasp the perceptual concretes immediately present and it is able to form automatic perceptual associations, but it can go no further. It is able to learn certain skills to deal with specific situations, such as hunting or hiding, which the parents of the higher animals teach their young. But an animal has no choice in the knowledge and the skills that it acquires; it can only repeat them generation after generation. And an animal has no choice in the standard of value directing its actions: its senses provide it with an automatic code of values, an automatic knowledge of what is good for it or evil, what benefits or endangers its life. An animal has no power to extend its knowledge or to evade it. In situations for which its knowledge is inadequate, it perishes—as, for instance, an animal that stands paralyzed on the track of a railroad in the path of a speeding train. But so long as it lives, an animal acts on its knowledge, with automatic safety and no power of choice: it cannot suspend its own consciousness—it cannot choose not to perceive—it cannot evade its own perceptions—it cannot ignore its own good, it cannot decide to choose the evil and act as its own destroyer. </span><span class="Underline">Man has no automatic code of survival. He has no automatic course of action, no automatic set of values</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. His senses do not tell him automatically what is good for him or evil, what will benefit his life or endanger it, what goals he should pursue and what means will achieve them, what values his life depends on, what course of action it requires. His own consciousness has to discover the answers to all these questions—but his consciousness will not function automatically. Man, the highest living species on this earth—the being whose consciousness has a limitless capacity for gaining knowledge—man is the only living entity born without any guarantee of remaining conscious at all. </span><span class="Underline">Man’s particular distinction from all other living species is the fact that his consciousness is volitional. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Just as the automatic values directing the functions of a plant’s body are sufficient for its survival, but are not sufficient for an animal’s—so the automatic values provided by the sensory-perceptual mechanism of its consciousness are sufficient to guide an animal, but are not sufficient for man. Man’s actions and survival require the guidance of conceptual values derived from conceptual knowledge. But conceptual knowledge cannot be acquired automatically. A “concept” is a mental integration of two or more perceptual concretes, which are isolated by a process of abstraction and united by means of a specific definition. Every word of man’s language, with the exception of proper names, denotes a concept, an abstraction that stands for an unlimited number of concretes of a specific kind. It is by organizing his perceptual material into concepts, and his concepts into wider and still wider concepts that man is able to grasp and retain, to identify and integrate an unlimited amount of knowledge, a knowledge extending beyond the immediate perceptions of any given, immediate moment. Man’s sense organs function automatically; man’s brain integrates his sense data into percepts automatically; but the process of integrating percepts into concepts—the process of abstraction and of concept-formation—is not automatic. The process of concept-formation does not consist merely of grasping a few simple abstractions, such as “chair,” “table,” “hot,” “cold,” and of learning to speak. It consists of a method of using one’s consciousness, best designated by the term “conceptualizing.” It is not a passive state of registering random impressions. It is an actively sustained process of identifying one’s impressions in conceptual terms, of integrating every event and every observation into a conceptual context, of grasping relationships, differences, similarities in one’s perceptual material and of abstracting them into new concepts, of drawing inferences, of making deductions, of reaching conclusions, of asking new questions and discovering new answers and expanding one’s knowledge into an ever-growing sum. The faculty that directs this process, the faculty that works by means of concepts, is: reason. The process is thinking. </span><span class="Underline">Reason is the faculty that identifies and integrates the material provided by man’s senses. It is a faculty that man has to exercise by choice.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Thinking is not an automatic function. In any hour and issue of his life, man is free to think or to evade that effort. Thinking requires a state of full, focused awareness. The act of focusing one’s consciousness is volitional. Man can focus his mind to a full, active, purposefully directed awareness of reality—or he can unfocus it and let himself drift in a semiconscious daze, merely reacting to any chance stimulus of the immediate moment, at the mercy of his undirected sensory-perceptual mechanism and of any random, associational connections it might happen to make. When man unfocuses his mind, he may be said to be conscious in a subhuman sense of the word, since he experiences sensations and perceptions. But in the sense of the word applicable to man—in the sense of a consciousness which is aware of reality and able to deal with it, a consciousness able to direct the actions and provide for the survival of a human being—an unfocused mind is not conscious. Psychologically, the choice “to think or not” is the choice “to focus or not.” Existentially, the choice “to focus or not” is the choice “to be conscious or not.” Metaphysically, the choice “to be conscious or not” is the choice of life or death. Consciousness—for those living organisms which possess it—is the basic means of survival. </span><span class="Underline">For man, the basic means of survival is reason. Man cannot survive, as animals do, by the guidance of mere percepts</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. A sensation of hunger will tell him that he needs food (if he has learned to identify it as “hunger”), but it will not tell him how to obtain his food and it will not tell him what food is good for him or poisonous. He cannot provide for his simplest physical needs without a process of thought. He needs a process of thought to discover how to plant and grow his food or how to make weapons for hunting. His percepts might lead him to a cave, if one is available—but to build the simplest shelter, he needs a process of thought. No percepts and no “instincts” will tell him how to light a fire, how to weave cloth, how to forge tools, how to make a wheel, how to make an airplane, how to perform an appendectomy, how to produce an electric light bulb or an electronic tube or a cyclotron or a box of matches. Yet his life depends on such knowledge—and only a volitional act of his consciousness, a process of thought, can provide it. But man’s responsibility goes still further: a process of thought is not automatic nor “instinctive” nor involuntary—nor infallible. Man has to initiate it, to sustain it and to bear responsibility for its results. He has to discover how to tell what is true or false and how to correct his own errors; he has to discover how to validate his concepts, his conclusions, his knowledge; he has to discover the rules of thought, the laws of logic, to direct his thinking. Nature gives him no automatic guarantee of the efficacy of his mental effort. Nothing is given to man on earth except a potential and the material on which to actualize it. The potential is a superlative machine: his consciousness; but it is a machine without a spark plug, a machine of which his own will has to be the spark plug, the self-starter and the driver; he has to discover how to use it and he has to keep it in constant action. The material is the whole of the universe, with no limits set to the knowledge he can acquire and to the enjoyment of life he can achieve. But everything he needs or desires has to be learned, discovered and produced by him—by his own choice, by his own effort, by his own mind. A being who does not know automatically what is true or false, cannot know automatically what is right or wrong, what is good for him or evil. Yet he needs that knowledge in order to live. He is not exempt from the laws of reality, he is a specific organism of a specific nature that requires specific actions to sustain his life. He cannot achieve his survival by arbitrary means nor by random motions nor by blind urges nor by chance nor by whim. That which his survival requires is set by his nature and is not open to his choice. What is open to his choice is only whether he will discover it or not, whether he will choose the right goals and values or not. He is free to make the wrong choice, but not free to succeed with it. He is free to evade reality, he is free to unfocus his mind and stumble blindly down any road he pleases, but not free to avoid the abyss he refuses to see. Knowledge, for any conscious organism, is the means of survival; to a living consciousness, every “is” implies an “ought.” Man is free to choose not to be conscious, but not free to escape the penalty of unconsciousness: destruction. Man is the only living species that has the power to act as his own destroyer—and that is the way he has acted through most of his history. What, then, are the right goals for man to pursue? What are the values his survival requires? That is the question to be answered by the science of ethics. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is why man needs a code of ethics. Now you can assess the meaning of the doctrines which tell you that ethics is the province of the irrational, that reason cannot guide man’s life, that his goals and values should be chosen by vote or by whim—that ethics has nothing to do with reality, with existence, with one’s practical actions and concerns—or that the goal of ethics is beyond the grave, that the dead need ethics, not the living. Ethics is not a mystic fantasy—nor a social convention—nor a dispensable, subjective luxury, to be switched or discarded in any emergency. Ethics is an objective, metaphysical necessity of man’s survival—not by the grace of the supernatural nor of your neighbors nor of your whims, but by the grace of reality and the nature of life. I quote from Galt’s speech: “Man has been called a rational being, but rationality is a matter of choice—and the alternative his nature offers him is: rational being or suicidal animal. Man has to be man—by choice; he has to hold his life as a value—by choice; he has to learn to sustain it—by choice; he has to discover the values it requires and practice his virtues—by choice. A code of values accepted by choice is a code of morality.” </span><span class="Underline">The standard of value of the Objectivist ethics—the standard by which one judges what is good or evil—is man’s life, or: that which is required for man’s survival qua man. Since reason is man’s basic means of survival, that which is proper to the life of a rational being is the good; that which negates, opposes or destroys it is the evil</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>



<span class="Underline">**This evidence establishes the burden that the Affirmative must uphold. The comparison between the Affirmative and Negative values must occur at the epistemological level – they must defend the assumptions behind their value. Rand argues that those assumptions must be based on Reality, and the only Objective standard for Reality is Rationality, because it is all that we can know. Thus, the Affirmative’s First Burden is to prove that their Value is Rational.**</span>



<span class="Underline">**Contention Two: Value Criterion**</span>



<span class="Underline">**I will defend Rational Egoism – the philosophy of Objectivism. This establishes the criteria for evaluating the morality of assistance – is it rational, does it respect self-interest, does it uphold individual rights?**</span>



<span class="Underline">**The Epistemological basis for Objectivism is sustaining Life – that is the only observable fact that motivates human value. Sustaining life is not a Utilitarian calculus – each person must act individually to sustain their own life – that is the only rational value**</span>



<span class="Underline">**Biddle, 2011 – The Objectivist Institute**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Craig Fall [[http://www.theobjectivestandard.com/issues/2011-fall/ayn-rand-theory-rights.asp]] TOS Vol. 6, No. 3. Ayn Rand's Theory of Rights: The Moral Foundation of a Free Society</span>



<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">If</span><span class="Underline"> we want to defend rights, we need to be able to do more than just say that we have them. We need to be able rationally to explain where rights come from</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and why we have them. </span><span class="Underline">Toward that end, we need a rational account of natural moral law</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—moral law derived not from “super-nature” but from actual nature—moral law not merely asserted but proven—</span><span class="Underline">proven by means of evidence and logic.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Ayn Rand provided just that. Like Locke and the Founders, Rand held that individuals have a right to life, liberty, property, and the pursuit of happiness. But she arrived at this conclusion in a very different manner than did they or any other natural rights advocates. Whereas traditional conceptions of rights are based (ultimately) on presumptions of God, </span><span class="Underline">Rand’s conception is rooted in observations of fact. Her theory of rights derives from her more fundamental theory of morality—which derives from her observations of reality,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of the nature of values, and of the requirements of life. Thus, to understand Rand’s theory of rights, we must begin with a brief survey of her theory of morality and the observable facts that give rise to it. Ayn Rand’s Observation-Based Morality Our purpose here is not to flesh out Rand’s entire moral theory, which would require a book, but rather to examine certain aspects of her ethics that are essential to understanding her theory of rights. Thus, I want to stress that the following streamlined survey is no substitute for a thorough study of her ethics.23 Morality or ethics, observed Rand, “is a code of values to guide man’s choices and actions—the choices and actions that determine the purpose and the course of his life.”24 And the first step toward understanding a code of values, she reasoned, is to understand the nature of values. Thus, Rand’s approach to morality began not with the question: Which of the existing codes should I accept?—but rather with the questions: “What are values? Why does man need them?”25 These questions directed her thinking away from the established views and toward the facts of reality. </span><span class="Underline">Looking at reality, Rand observed that a “value” is “that which one acts to gain and/or keep.”</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">26 We can see the truth of this all around us: People act to gain and keep money; they value money. Students act to gain and keep good grades; they value good grades. Churchgoers act to gain or keep a relationship with “God”; they value that relationship. People act to develop fulfilling careers, to establish and maintain romantic relationships, to gain and keep freedom, and so on. The things one acts to gain or keep are one’s values. And the key word here is: acts. Values are objects of actions. (Please take special note of this, as it is a crucial aspect of Rand’s derivation of moral principles—including the principle of rights. We will observe the relationship of actions and values repeatedly and with mounting significance throughout the remainder of this essay.) Looking at reality, Rand further saw that this phenomenon involves not only human beings but all living things—and only living things. We can see this: Trees, tigers, and people take actions toward goals. Rocks, rivers, and hammers do not. Trees, for example, extend their roots into the ground and their branches and leaves toward the sky; they value minerals, water, and sunlight. Tigers hunt antelope and nap under trees; they value meat and shade. This pattern continues throughout the plant and animal kingdom: All living things take self-generated, goal-directed action. Nonliving things, on the other hand, take no such action. They can be moved, but they cannot act—not in the self-generated, goal-directed sense that living things do. A rock just remains wherever it is unless some outside force, such as a wave or a hammer, hits and moves it. A river flows, but its motion is not self-generated; water moves only by means of some outside force—in this case, the gravitational pull of the earth. And a hammer does not, by itself, smash rocks or drive nails; it does not generate its own action. Rand observed that the reason inanimate objects do not act in the same sense that living things do is that they have no needs and therefore no corresponding means of action. Only living organisms have needs, goals, or values; accordingly, only they have a means of acting toward such ends. Having clarified that a value is that which one acts to gain or keep—and that only living things pursue values—Rand proceeded to ask: Why do living things seek values? What are values for? “The concept ‘value’ is not a primary,” Rand observed. “It presupposes an answer to the question: of value to whom and for what? It presupposes an entity capable of acting to achieve a goal in the face of an alternative.” A tree faces the alternative of reaching water and sunlight—or not. A tiger faces the alternative of catching and keeping its prey—or not. And a person faces the alternative of achieving his goals—or not. The objects a living thing acts to gain or keep are its values—values to it. That answers the question: “to whom?” But the question “for what?” remains. What difference does it make whether an organism achieves its goals? What happens if it succeeds? What happens if it fails? What ultimately is at stake? Here is Rand’s key passage on the issue: </span><span class="Underline">There is only one fundamental alternative in the universe: existence or non-existence—and it pertains to a single class of entities: to living organisms.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The existence of inanimate matter is unconditional, the existence of life is not: it depends on a specific course of action. Matter is indestructible, it changes forms, but it cannot cease to exist. It is only a living organism that faces a constant alternative: the issue of life or death. Life is a process of self-sustaining and self-generated action. If an organism fails in that action, it dies; its chemical elements remain, but its life goes out of existence.27 </span><span class="Underline">The reason why living things need values is: to live</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The answer to the question “for what?” is: for life. Life is conditional: If a living thing takes the actions necessary to remain alive, it remains alive; if, for whatever reason, it fails to take those actions, it dies. And human beings are no exception to this principle. People need values for the same reason plants and animals do: in order to sustain and further their life. On the basis of such observations, Rand discovered that an organism’s life is its ultimate value and thus its standard of value—the standard by which all of its other values and actions are to be evaluated. A tree’s standard of value is the requirements of its life as set by its nature. A tiger’s standard of value is the requirements of its life as set by its nature. And a man’s standard of value is the requirements of his life as set by his nature. Now, our purpose here is not to examine every nuance of the proof that an organism’s life is its standard of value, nor to address every objection that might be raised to the idea.28 Rather, our purpose is to survey the essential facts that give rise to the principle, to see generally how they anchor it in perceptual reality, and ultimately to see how this principle underlies and gives rise to the principle of rights. Toward that end, we will focus on a few crucial components. By pursuing the question “Why does man need values?” Rand kept her thinking fact-oriented. If man needs values, then the reason he needs them will go a long way toward establishing which values are legitimate and which are not. If man doesn’t need values, well, then, he doesn’t need them—and there is no point in pursuing the issue at all.29 Rand discovered that man does need values, and the reason he needs them is in order to live. Moral values—values in the realm of human choice—are facts in relation to the requirements of man’s life. </span><span class="Underline">Because we possess free will, we choose our values; thus, we can choose either objectively legitimate, life-serving values</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (e.g., to pursue a wonderful career, to remain with a worthy spouse, to establish and maintain a civilized society)—</span><span class="Underline">or</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> objectively illegitimate, </span><span class="Underline">life-thwarting values</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (e.g., to shoot heroin, to stay with an abusive spouse, or to advocate communism or sharia). But whatever our choices, these facts remain: </span><span class="Underline">The only reason we can pursue values is because we are alive, and the only reason we need to pursue values is in order to live</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. This observation-based, two-pronged principle is essential to understanding how </span><span class="Underline">morality—and, in turn, the principle of rights—is grounded in the immutable facts of reality</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">: Only life makes values possible, and only life makes values necessary. Or: </span><span class="Underline">We have to be alive in order to pursue values, and we have to pursue values in order to stay alive. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">These are metaphysically given facts—facts about the fundamental nature of reality, about how the world is regardless of what anyone hopes, feels, prays, or chooses. And they give rise to a crucial epistemological principle—a principle pertaining to the correct and incorrect use of the concept of “value.” Quoting Rand: Metaphysically, life is the only phenomenon that is an end in itself: a value gained and kept by a constant process of action. </span><span class="Underline">Epistemologically, the concept of “value” is genetically dependent upon and derived from the antecedent concept of “life.”</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> To speak of “value” as apart from “life” is worse than a contradiction in terms. “It is only the concept of ‘Life’ that makes the concept of ‘Value’ possible.”30 The reason that to speak of value as apart from life is worse than a contradiction in terms is that to do so is to tear the concept of value away from its conceptual foundation—the foundation on which it hierarchically depends and in relation to which it has objective meaning. Ripped away from the concept of life, the concept of value has no grounding in reality; it is severed from its factual base and thus amounts to a subjective utterance. To speak of value as apart from life is to commit what Rand called “the fallacy of concept stealing,” which consists in using a concept while ignoring or denying a more fundamental concept on which it logically depends.31 The concept of value is rooted in the concept of life. Value means “that toward which a living thing acts.” And moral value—value proper to human beings—means “that toward which a person acts in accordance with the requirements of human life.” Rand further observed that </span><span class="Underline">because human beings are individuals</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—each with his own body, his own mind, his own life—</span><span class="Underline">this standard applies to human beings as individuals.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Man’s life is the standard of moral value—and each individual’s own life is his own ultimate value. </span><span class="Underline">Each individual is morally an end in himself—not a means to the ends of others</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.32 The moral principle here is egoism. </span><span class="Underline">Egoism is the recognition of the fact that each individual should act to promote his own life and is the proper beneficiary of his own moral action</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.33 The validity of this principle is implicit in the very nature of values. </span><span class="Underline">A value is the object of an action taken by a living organism to sustain and further its life.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Again, the fact that people can choose antilife values doesn’t change the roots of the concept of value or the fact that </span><span class="Underline">the only demonstrably legitimate values are those that promote one’s life.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Thus, our value meets the criteria established by Rand – it is based in Reality and Rationality. There are two reasons why this value is superior**</span>



<span class="Underline">**1. Human Rationality is the key to determining ethics – it is the sole unique human attribute.** </span>



<span class="Underline">**Peikoff, 1984 – former prof of Philosophy at Hunter College**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Leonard, Philosophy: Who Needs It? Introduction Google Books]</span>



<span class="Underline">Reason,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> according to Objectivism, </span><span class="Underline">is not merely a distinguishing attribute of man; it is his fundamental attribute-his basic means of survival</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span><span class="Underline">Therefore, whatever reason requires in order to function is a necessity of human life. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Reason functions by integrating perceptual data into concepts. This process, Ayn Rand holds, ultimately requires the widest integrations-those which give man knowledge of the universe in which he acts, of his means of knowledge, and of his proper values. </span><span class="Underline">Man, therefore, needs metaphysics, epistemology and ethics; i.e., he needs philosophy. He needs it by his essential nature and for a practical purpose: in order to be able to think, to act, to live</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In today's world, this view of the role of philosophy is unique - just as. in today`s neo-mystic culture, Objectivism`s advocacy of reason is all but unique. To Ayn Rand, philosophy is not a senseless parade of abstractions created to till out the ritual at cocktail parties or in Sunday morning services. It is not a ponderous Continental wail of futility resonating with Oriental overtones. It is not a chess game divorced from reality designed by British professors for otherwise unemployable colleagues. To Ayn Rand. </span><span class="Underline">philosophy is the fundamental factor in human life; it is the basic force that shapes the mind and character of men and the destiny of nations. It shapes them for good or for evil, depending on the kind of philosophy men accept</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span><span class="Underline">A man’s choice</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, according to Ayn Rand_ is not whether to have a philosophy, but only which philosophy to have. His choice </span><span class="Underline">is whether his philosophy will be conscious, explicit, logical, and therefore practical-or random, unidentified, contradictory, and therefore lethal. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In these essays, Ayn Rand explains some of the steps necessary to achieve a conscious, rational philosophy. She teaches the reader how to identity, and then evaluate, the hidden premises at work in his own soul or nation. She makes clear the mechanism by which philosophy rules men and societies, the forms that abstract theory takes in daily life, and the profound existential consequences that flow from even the most abstruse ideas, ideas which may seem at first glance to be of merely academic concern. She shows that, </span><span class="Underline">when an idea is rational, its consequence, ultimately, is the preservation of man's life; and that when an idea is irrational, its consequence is the opposite.</span>



<span class="Underline">**2. Only Objectivism resolves the Is Ought Dilemma – without a reality based, objective basis for morality, all other systems of ethics are subjectivist which will collapse into tyranny and despotism.**</span>



<span class="Underline">**Biddle 2009 – The Objectivist Institute**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Craig, Summer http://www.theobjectivestandard.com/issues/2009-summer/is-ought-gap.asp TOS Vol. 4, No. 2. The Is-Ought Gap: Subjectivism's Technical Retreat</span>



<span class="Underline">If we are to establish an objective, fact-based morality, we need to discover a final end—one toward which all of our other goals and values are properly aimed</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Such an end is by that fact our standard of moral value—the standard against which we can objectively assess the value of all our choices and actions. So the question becomes: What is our ultimate goal? Now, one would hope that we could turn to philosophers for some assistance here; after all, it is their job to answer such questions. But, alas, </span><span class="Underline">most philosophers hold that an ultimate goal or standard of moral value cannot be rationally justified</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Philosophy professor Lionel Ruby explains the essence of this popular position as follows: [Goals] are like standards, in that some are more basic than others. Any goal short of the “ultimate” can be justified by a more basic goal. But a truly ultimate standard or goal cannot be justified by logic, for a proof requires a premise—in this case a value premise—and “ultimate” means “nothing more basic.” . . . [Thus] truly ultimate standards or ends . . . are beyond the scope of logic and scientific evidence.1 </span><span class="Underline">This widespread belief underlies and gives rise to the problem known as the “is–ought” dichotomy, according to which it is impossible to move logically from the facts of reality—from what “is”—to moral principles—principles about how people “ought” to act.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> As Professor Ruby states the problem: Every value conclusion must rest on value premises. The “ought-to-be” can be deduced only from another “ought-to-be,” and never from a mere “is” or statement of fact. A premise that merely states that something is or is not the case cannot yield a value conclusion.2 This dual claim—that ultimate ends cannot be justified by logic and, thus, that moral principles cannot be grounded in facts—was first made in the eighteenth century by the Scottish philosopher David Hume (from whom we will hear shortly).3 “The essence of Hume’s view,” explains Cambridge professor C. D. Broad, “is that Reason is wholly confined to matters of fact.” It will help us to analyse a situation, to choose means for a given end, and to infer probable consequences of various alternative courses of action. But it has nothing whatever to do with our choice of ends as distinct from means. We desire things as ends only because they move some emotion in us, and not because of any objective characteristic in them which Reason can recognise.4 Not surprisingly, </span><span class="Underline">this notion breeds moral subjectivism</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. And unfortunately, it is almost universally accepted among intellectuals today. Princeton professor Peter Singer declares that “The gap between facts and values remains as unbridgeable as it was when David Hume first drew attention to it in 1739. . . .”5 UCLA professor James Q. Wilson tells us: “I learned from Hume, as did legions of my fellow students, that this transition is impossible; one cannot infer an ‘ought’ statement from an ‘is’ statement; in modern parlance, one cannot infer values from facts. It is logically untenable.”6 And in a textbook titled Attacking Faulty Reasoning, Professor T. Edward Damer writes: “It is not logically sound to move in an argument from a factual claim, a so-called ‘is,’ to a moral claim, a so-called ‘ought.’ To do so is to commit the well-known ‘is–ought’ fallacy.”7 On this view, to recognize the facts of a given situation, and to try to use those facts in order to discover and take a moral course of action, is to commit a “logical fallacy.” Apparently, to be moral, one should disregard everything one knows to be true and act solely according to one’s unfettered desires or the norms of one’s tribe. Some advice. </span><span class="Underline">The is–ought problem may seem silly, but if left unsolved it has serious consequences. If facts have no bearing on what a person morally ought to do</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—if reason is merely a means of achieving subjectively chosen ends—</span><span class="Underline">if morality cannot be grounded objectively in reality</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—if there is an unbridgeable gap between “is” and “ought,” between facts and values—</span><span class="Underline">then,</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> as Professor Ruby notes, </span><span class="Underline">we have only “personal preference or the approval of our group as the ultimate basis for our value-judgments.”8 And we know what that means. The is–ought gap is the secular subjectivists’ technical retreat. It serves as their linguistic asylum from the imposition of any moral standards. It is their ticket to “get away” with whatever they</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (or their group) </span><span class="Underline">feel like doing.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> And it is why no one can answer them when they say: “There are no moral absolutes” or “Morality is not black and white” or “Who’s to say what’s right?” </span><span class="Underline">People who make such claims are counting on our inability to name a fact-based, logically provable, objective standard of moral value.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Consciously or not, they are relying on the is–ought dichotomy to defend moral subjectivism. And, consciously or not, they are supported by the likes of David Hume and the legions of subjectivist college professors who each year teach another batch of future intellectuals that moral principles cannot be derived from the facts of reality. What do Hume and company propose as an alternative? How, in their view, are people supposed to determine what is morally right and wrong? How are we to distinguish virtue from vice? Their answer: By reference to a “moral sense,” which they also call “sentiments of pleasure and uneasiness” and, you guessed it: “feelings.” According to Hume, if you see a man raping a woman, you cannot say that what you are witnessing is factually immoral; you cannot say that as a matter of fact he should not be doing that. No matter how you view the situation, all you can say in terms of facts is: There is a woman kicking and screaming furiously while a man is eagerly trying to have sex with her; the man has made a choice, and the woman appears to think differently about it. As to a moral judgment—as to whether the man is being virtuous or vicious—that, says Hume, depends solely on how it makes you feel inside. Lest it seem that I am exaggerating Hume’s position, here it is in his own words: “An action, or sentiment, or character is virtuous or vicious; why? Because its view causes a pleasure or uneasiness of a particular kind.” Take any action allowed to be vicious: Wilful murder, for instance. Examine it in all lights, and see if you can find that matter of fact, or real existence, which you call vice. In whichever way you take it, you find only certain passions, motives, volitions and thoughts. There is no other matter of fact in the case. The vice entirely escapes you, as long as you consider the object [the observable facts]. You never can find it, till you turn your reflexion into your own breast, and find a sentiment of disapprobation [moral disapproval], which arises in you, towards this action.9 Disturbed by that, you might demand a firm answer: Tell me, Mr. Hume, is it your position that rapists and murderers are vicious or not! His answer: “When you pronounce any action or character to be vicious, you mean nothing, but that from the constitution of your nature you have a feeling or a sentiment of blame from the contemplation of it.”10 In other words, to condemn murderers and rapists as immoral is merely to express your emotional discomfort at the thought of what they do.11 </span><span class="Underline">If moral judgments cannot be grounded in the facts of reality, then we are in a moral vacuum; logic is merely a means to achieving arbitrarily chosen ends;</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> swindlers, hoodlums</span><span class="Underline">, Nazis, communists, terrorists, and religious “inquisitors” are neither moral nor immoral—only successful or unsuccessful. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">If so, human sacrifices of any kind and degree can be “justified” by the decree of any common criminal, any collective, any dictator, any “prophet,” or any pope. The problem is not: “If there is no God, anything goes.” The problem is: If there is no objective standard of value, anything goes. If there is no rationally provable standard of value, there is no way to defend with moral certainty what is right or to condemn with moral certainty what is wrong. The alternative is not religion versus subjectivism, but reason versus subjectivism—and the secular subjectivists know it. Hitler did not fear religion or faith; he feared reason and logic. He saw the Church not as an enemy but as a mentor, because of its remarkable ability to get people to believe in a creed full of contradictions. Here, in his own words, is Hitler acknowledging his heartfelt debt to religion: The Church has never allowed the Creed to be interfered with. It is fifteen hundred years since it was formulated, but every suggestion for its amendment, every logical criticism or attack on it, has been rejected. The Church has realized that anything and everything can be built up on a document of that sort, no matter how contradictory or irreconcilable with it. The faithful will swallow it whole, so long as logical reasoning is never allowed to be brought to bear on it.12 Hitler’s plans required that people have faith; thus, he had nothing but contempt for logic. And he was neither the first nor the last to feel this way. David Hume was as explicit about his hatred of reason as he was about his love for feelings. Just as he insisted that feelings are our only moral guides, so he insisted that “Reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions, and can never pretend to any other office than to serve and obey them.” What does that mean? Hume tells us: “It is not contrary to reason to prefer the destruction of the whole world to the scratching of my finger.”13 Now, we know what Hitler’s hatred of reason led to, but what about Hume’s? After all, he was not a maniacal mass murderer, but a peaceful philosopher who merely taught legions of other philosophers that moral principles cannot be derived from the facts of reality. What harm could that do? Well, </span><span class="Underline">ideas have consequences</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. And Hume’s ideas have made their way from the minds of </span><span class="Underline">ivory-tower philosophers</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> into the minds of regular people. They </span><span class="Underline">have even made their way into the minds of children.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Recall who said this: “My belief is that if I say something, it goes. I am the law, and if you don’t like it, you die. If I don’t like you or I don’t like what you want me to do, you die.” It was Eric Harris of the Columbine massacre. Is it any wonder what ideas got into his head? How far is his philosophy from this one: “It is not contrary to reason to prefer the destruction of the whole world to the scratching of my finger”? </span><span class="Underline">Subjectivism—whether personal, social, or “supernatural”—wreaks havoc on human life and happiness. Until we can answer it with (genuine) moral certainty—that is, until we can show that morality is based on facts—it will continue to do so.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> From muggings and rapes, to school shootings and truck bombings, to concentration camps and gulags, to religious “inquisitions” and divinely inspired acts of terrorism—all such mayhem is caused by subjectivism. And the is–ought dichotomy is what makes subjectivism seem plausible. </span><span class="Underline">The is–ought gap represents a moral abyss. If we care about human life and happiness, we need to bridge it. We need to ground morality in reality; we need to discover a rationally provable ultimate end</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—a standard of value derived from observation and logic. Fortunately, the problem has been solved; the gap has been bridged; morality has been tied to reality. An objective standard of value has been rationally proved, and it is the subject of our next chapter.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Contention Three: Altruism is Irrational**</span>



<span class="Underline">**The Rational Egoist would reject the moral obligation to assist the needy because it is Altruistic. Three Reasons:**</span>



<span class="Underline">**1. Altruism is irrational – an individual can never know what the interests of the needy are, what they want. The obligation to give them assistance presumes that they Want assistance, but that does not base morality on Objective Reality. An individual can know, for Certain, what their interests are, because that is their Choice – it is Rational. An individual can never know, Objectively what the interests of the Needy are – they may not Want assistance.** </span>



<span class="Underline">**2. Altruistic Moral Obligations undermine Rational Choice. Individual rights cannot co-exist with Altruism – an obligation inherently negates the Choice to do anything. Volition is a necessary precondition of morality.**</span>



<span class="Underline">**Biddle, 2009 – The Objectivist Institute**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Craig [[http://www.theobjectivestandard.com/issues/2009-fall/creed-of-sacrifice-vs-land-of-liberty.asp]] TOS Vol. 4, No. 3. The Creed of Sacrifice vs. The Land of Liberty</span>



<span class="Underline">The correlation between the morality of sacrifice and the violation of rights is no accident. It is a causal relationship</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. To see why, we must zero in on the little-understood essence of altruism. </span><span class="Underline">Altruism </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">is not about moral obligation as such; it </span><span class="Underline">is</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> about </span><span class="Underline">a specific kind of moral obligation. Altruism does not call for a person to serve others if he has made an agreement or a commitment to do so</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—as in the case of a doctor who contracts to provide a patient with medical care in exchange for payment, or an employer who contracts to pay an employee in exchange for his work. </span><span class="Underline">Such obligations are</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> chosen obligations, obligations stemming from </span><span class="Underline">mutually beneficial agreements</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, agreements in which both parties gain a life-serving value. </span><span class="Underline">Altruism is not about chosen obligations. It is about “unchosen” obligations or “duties.” </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">As the altruist philosopher John Rawls explains, whereas regular obligations “arise as a result of our voluntary acts,” duties “apply to us without regard to our voluntary acts.” We have a duty “to help another, whether or not we have committed ourselves to [doing so]. It is no defense or excuse to say that we have made no promise . . . to come to another’s aid.”17 </span><span class="Underline">A “duty” is non-optional; it is something you must do regardless of what you want, regardless of what you think is in your interest</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, regardless of what you would choose to do if you had a choice in the matter. In the words of the foremost advocate of this idea, the German philosopher Immanuel Kant, “duty is a necessitation to an unwillingly adopted end,” and its “specific mark” is “the renunciation of all interest.”18 Altruism is the morality of “unchosen” obligations—obligations you must honor regardless of your values, desires, interests. This fact points to why altruism not only calls for self-sacrifice but also necessitates the initiation of physical force. British philosopher John Stuart Mill explains: It is a part of the notion of duty in every one of its forms that a person may rightfully be compelled to fulfill it. Duty is a thing which may be exacted from a person, as one exacts a debt. Unless we think that it may be exacted from him, we do not call it his duty. . . . There are other things, on the contrary, which we wish that people should do, which we like or admire them for doing, perhaps dislike or despise them for not doing, but yet admit that they are not bound to do. . . .19 Observe what this means in regard to the relationship of “duties” and rights. </span><span class="Underline">Whereas a “duty” is an</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (alleged) </span><span class="Underline">obligation that one has apart from one’s choices or interests and that one “may rightfully be compelled to fulfill,” a right is a prerogative to act in accordance with one’s choices and interests</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> so long as one does not violate the same rights of others. In other words, “</span><span class="Underline">duties” and rights are utterly incompatible. They are mutually exclusive. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">A person can have one or the other—but not both. The French philosopher Auguste Comte (who coined the term “altruism”) puts this clearly: Because “to live for others” is “for all of us a constant duty” and “the definitive formula of human morality,” it follows that “[a]ll honest and sensible men, of whatever party, should agree, by a common consent, to eliminate the doctrine of rights.” Altruism, explained Comte, “cannot tolerate the notion of rights, for such notion rests on individualism.” On the premise of altruism, “[rights] are as absurd as they are immoral. . . . The whole notion, then, must be completely put away.”20 </span><span class="Underline">The morality of altruism is incompatible with the principle of rights, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">and the theoreticians of altruism are clear on this point. In order to “completely put away” the concept of rights in America, however, the pushers of altruism will have to convince Americans to abandon their love of liberty—which is easier said than done.</span>



**3. Altruism reduces humans to a means to an end – sacrificing an individual’s self-interest to assist the Needy. This devaluation has made totalitarian atrocity possible.**



**Duarte 99**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Joe, Software Developer and Writer, Eclectica Magazine Volume 3 Number 2)</span>



<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The timing of this topic (evil) couldn't be better. We are near the end of the deadliest century in all of human history, and it is time to reflect back on the horror of the twentieth century and its causes. It quickly becomes obvious to the probing student that our century has been a century of ideas and ideologies, and the nature of those ideas is the key to the rivers of blood marring the history books. Slavery was abolished in America at the close of the Civil War, a few years after England, Russia, and other powers had cleansed themselves of it. But our century saw the rise of a new, intellectually fortified, form of it. A form that did not discriminate on the basis or race, or gender, or faith, but rather a slavery that enslaved the producers, the creators, the thinkers. It was called socialism, and it had many forms. In its fully consistent and pure form it was the communism of the Soviet state and Red China. In its nationalistic and anti-Semitic form it was the National Socialism of Germany and the Fascist labor party of Italy. These four governments murdered more than 50 million human beings. The evil of such an outcome is self-evident to all, regardless of one's particular faith or creed. What is not self-evident is whether the idea of socialism is itself evil or just continually corrupted in the hands of various sundry governments. I submit that socialism is indeed evil by its very nature, and furthermore, that its underlying premises are the root of that evil. Altruism is the moral code at the base of socialism.</span> __The term "altruism" was coined by the nineteenth century advocate of totalitarianism__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Auguste </span>__Comte__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Like Kant and various modern philosophers, Comte was a secular advocate of the Christian code of self-sacrifice and selfless service to others. Altruism has such a commanding hold on the field of ethics that it is not simply regarded as one particular code of morality, but as synonymous with morality. Popularly regarded as a code of benevolence and generosity, </span>__altruism__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> actually means much more. It </span>__views human beings as objects of sacrifice, having no right to exist apart from service to others.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> The head of the Children's Defense Fund, whose name escapes me, said that </span>__selfless service "is the rent we pay for living__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">." I'm sure Hitler and Stalin would nod their heads in agreement</span>__. It is this altruist code of selflessness that lies at the core of all totalitarian systems__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, past, present, and future. I now quote eminent psychologist Nathaniel Branden: "Instead of the goodwill and mutual respect engendered by recognition of individual rights, </span>__altruism as a moral commandment produces only fear and hostility among human beings. It forces them to accept the role of victim or executioner and leaves them no standard of justice__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, no way to know what they can demand and what they must surrender…..In order for human beings to accept self-sacrifice as a moral ideal, they have to remain ignorant of the concept of rational selfishness. Moralists have commonly declared or implied that our basic alternative is to sacrifice others to ourselves (which they call "egoism") or to sacrifice ourselves to others ("altruism"). This is equivalent to declaring that our basic choice is between being a sadist or a masochist. Just as healthy sex consists of the exchange of pleasure, not pain, so healthy relationships of any kind consist of the exchange of values, not sacrifices." </span>__Altruism__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, Christian and secular, has dominated our ethical compass since the death of Jesus of Nazareth. It </span>__has led to the exploitation of billions of human beings, who__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> not knowing of rational alternatives, </span>__meekly subordinated their hopes,__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">dreams, happiness, and very lives</span> __to__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the symbol of the cross or the flag or</span> __the "public". The alternative__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">to such a creed of self-immolation, which Dr. Branden is leading to above, </span>__is a____complete rejection of__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the dualistic dichotomy of</span> __human sacrifice,__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the expulsion of sacrifice from human relationships. </span>__Sacrifice yourself to no one, and sacrifice no one to yourself.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Rational selfishness is the creed for those who love life, know what they value, and want to spread their wings. I shouldn't need to qualify selfishness with the word rational, but it makes an important point. Rational selfishness is the only kind of selfishness that can be sustained, the only kind that is selfish. Irrational selfishness is an oxymoron, and anyone who tried to practice it would perish. </span>__The rationally selfish person pursues rational values, values that sustain, enhance, better one's life,__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">as opposed to values that harm or destroy one's life. Christianity is antithetical to life by its very nature and robs us of much of what life has to offer. The idea of Original Sin is an abomination. Not only are the sins of the father the sins of the son, but the sins of the great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, grandfather. Christianity also teaches that reality is but a halfway house to the real deal waiting for us past the pearly gates, so don't worry about your happiness or your welfare, just bow down meekly and serve God and your fellow man. Of course, the same is true of secular forms of altruism, just substitute "society" or "the people" for God. Such a code is inherently exploitative, and is profoundly inhuman and Evil. A note: Rational selfishness, as an ethical philosophy, does not in any way sanction or justify the violation of the rights of others. For reasons I haven't the time to cover here, a truly selfish man would never initiate force or fraud (i.e. commit a crime) against another. And a free society - laissez-faire capitalist, libertarian, Jeffersonian - whatever term you fancy, would essentially bar the initiation of force from human relationships. This is in stark contrast to any variant of socialism or statism, in which the government is able to initiate force on a gargantuan scale against any and all of its citizens (and other nations) in a myriad different ways: the outright theft of coercive taxation (and subsequent immoral redistribution of the loot), fascist business regulations and economic controls, drug prohibitions for consenting adults, gun control laws for consenting (and law abiding) adults, involuntary servitude (both the military kind and now mandatory community service in order to graduate from high school in some states), ad nauseum. It is no surprise to psychologists like Dr. Branden that </span>__the healthiest and most benevolent communities are those made up of selfish, high self-esteem individuals, whereas the most stressed, and sometimes deadly, societies are founded on brutal altruist premises__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The challenge we face in the upcoming century is to fling the pendulum of history as far opposite the evils of this century as possible. There are past civilizations that can serve as inspiration, but we need to go back to before Christianity took over the world. The Ancient Greeks are a shining example of what is possible to Man.</span>