[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Aff Cites - Navin: <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&tf=1&to=gopauln@bxscience.edu|gopauln@bxscience.edu]]</span>
==1AC - Lexington== 
===Inherency=== 
Contention One is Inherency

Status-quo funding for Operationally Responsive Space is insufficient

Avionics 12/17 – [Avionics provides global viewers with highlights about the latest developments in avionics for commercial and defense applications. “Remarks by Senator John McCain on the Conference Report of the FY2012 Omnibus Appropriations Bill” 12/17/11 http://www.avionics-intelligence.com/news/2011/12/1564608996/remarks-by-senator-john-mccain-on-the-conference-report-of-the-fy2012-omnibus-appropriations-bill.html //NGopaul]

The bill includes $50 million in increases for Space Situational Awareness in two separate funding lines with no accompanying justification. These unrequested adds are so vague that I am sure that Members will be calling into the Pentagon to be sure that the money goes where they intended. This is a sad, old game being played over and over again. The budget requested $86 million for Operationally Responsive Space. This bill adds $25 million more, just for fun. The appropriators may have convinced themselves otherwise, but an additional $25 million will not solve our systemic space acquisition problems. Mr. President, the Armed Services Committee authorized, and the Congress will soon appropriate, some $290 million for research into post-traumatic stress disorder, prosthetics, blast injury, and psychological health. These are critical to improving actual battlefield medicine. Yet once again, the appropriators inserted unrequested funding for medical research, this time to the tune of $600 million. Let me remind my colleagues that these unrequested projects are funded at the expense of other military priorities. While I agree that research on multiple sclerosis, Alzheimers and cancer is meritorious, I restate my strong belief that it does not belong in the Defense Department budget.

No disads
Space Daily 10/16 (“U.S.A.F. Space & Missile Systems Center... And Now The Tests Begin (Satellite) “http://www.satnews.com/cgi-bin/story.cgi?number=856786810, abella)

[SatNews] New capabilities will be delivered to combatant commanders in short order... Air Force Space Command provided ORS-1 for early COCOM acceptance and entry into trial period, signifying the start of the satellite’s year-long mission under the direction of the 1st Space Operations Squadron and U.S. Strategic Command who will operate and task the satellite in direct support of USCENTCOM, September 29th. Since its launch June 29, the ORS-1 spacecraft has undergone an exhaustive checkout from component initialization to sensor calibration and system characterization. The satellite features a modified version of the Senior Year Electro-optical Reconnaissance System-2 sensor currently flown on the U-2 aircraft and was developed to address a U.S. Central Command need for enhanced battlespace awareness. The satellite, which was developed as a partnership between the ORS Office and SMC’s Space Development and Test Directorate, uses an existing payload and bus structure to deliver new capabilities to the combatant commander in record time. ORS-1 was developed from an initial concept to an operational capability in just under three years. “The entire government and contractor team worked tremendously hard to meet CENTCOM's need and deliver ORS-1 in record time, and we are very proud of the capabilities ORS-1 is providing to CENTCOM today,” said Col. Carol Welsch, acting director for the Space Development and Test Directorate. “This success would not have been possible without the outstanding teamwork between the ORS Office, SMC, 50th Space Wing, Goodrich, ATK, Orbital Sciences Corp. and Lockheed Martin. I'm inspired by the dedication of this team and look forward to applying lessons from our ORS-1 experience on future responsive space programs.” "This transition is an important step toward providing operational capabilities to support our deployed Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines,” said Dr. Peter Wegner, director of the Operationally Responsive Space Office. “I am extremely proud of the teamwork exhibited by the government and contractors."


===Plan=== 
**Thus, the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space by developing a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, hardening of satellites, and the deployment of small satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

===Deterrence=== 
Contention Two is Deterrence--

Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence –makes a space attack inevitable

Rendleman, 10 –[ Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science]

The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) kinetic-kill interceptor against one of their own defunct weather satellites generated considerable angst across the United States space community. The 2007 test demonstrated that the importance of space capabilities is also their Achilles heel, that is, their deadly weakness in spite of overall strength; it is far too easy to neutralize space systems and their power. In the broad strategic context, space capabilities have their own set of unique, inherent vulnerabilities, which are largely the result of orbital mechanics. This invites destruction, damage, and even just mischief delivered by even the least significant adversary. However, other nations may seek to deny U.S. advantages in space through a variety of negation and prevention actions. Negation Threats Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base. Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5 Space-based threats proliferate as a result of the ever-growing global availability of technology and access to the space domain. There are huge incentives for states to invest in and use space , and the spread of space technologies has occurred. States with sufficient resources can now reach out to space and ‘‘touch’’ satellites through a variety of means, and achieve one and even more of the five Ds. Spacecraft are vulnerable to direct ascent weapons as demonstrated by the Chinese ASAT test, and to a variety of other groundbased, airborne, and space-based ASAT technologies. Direct-ascent launched, or orbit-based nuclear devices, can be detonated, generating radiation and other lethal effects to destroy unshielded electronics over a wide lethal range. Co-orbital ASATs could be employed, comparable to the old Soviet system that was tested extensively in the 1970s and early 80s. In a less likely scenario, space-borne mines can also be deployed in close proximity to spacecraft, or exploded to generate debris clouds that destructively engage whole classes of satellites in the same orbital plane or in crossing orbits. Ground, space-based, or airborne lasers could be used by adversaries to wreak havoc. Blinding operations could be executed and inflict effects ranging from temporary ‘‘dazzling’’ to permanent burnout of optical or other sensors with intense energy bursts. Ground systems, supporting communications, and their nodes, are vulnerable to diverse land, sea, or air kinetic attacks, including sabotage. Unprotected systems are also susceptible to electronic attack through jamming and electromagnetic deception techniques. Jammers emit signals that mask or prevent reception of desired signals; these methods can disrupt uplinks, downlinks, and even cross-links. By disabling the means of command and control, and data communications, jammers render satellites inoperable or unavailable. Electromagnetic deception techniques can be employed to confuse systems; this could include sending false, but deceptively plausible, commands that cause spacecraft to perform damaging or wasteful maneuvers, modify databases or execute configuration changes, or otherwise destroy it. Similarly, supporting terrestrial ground stations, computer networks, and links are vulnerable to information operation and cyber attacks. These attacks could involve directing global denial of service tasks, injecting fake commands, malicious software and viruses into the space system, performing unauthorized monitoring and disclosure of sensitive information (data interception), and causing unauthorized modification or deliberate corruption of network information, services, and databases. In sum, there is a wide span of kinetic and other types of attacks an adversary could consider and employ. There is potential that even non-state actors can access some of these technologies and space systems, and achieve several of the five Ds; however, it is unlikely they can obtain and then employ a full-spectrum of these means and achieve all of these effects. Conducting an attack within the space domain involves a rather substantial investment to develop, acquire, operate, and sustain needed shooter, sensor, and command and control systems. Given the scope and commitment needed to affect such a move, an on-orbit attack would probably be made only in the context of a larger strategic struggle, perhaps as a prelude to or part of early combat operations. On the other hand, inexpensive jamming technology is available to even the poorest potential adversaries. As such, jamming poses the most used and growing threat to space systems. Some argue that jamming also carries with it implicit political and legal sanctions since no major space power has moved to ban or make even temporary and reversible jamming illegal. This may change now that a number of nations have banned together to object to recent Iranian satellite jamming.6 Cyber adversaries and criminals are also beginning to hone their craft. They present an evolving threat to space systems; and like jamming, cyber threats can be developed and deployed for only modest investments. Prevention Threats Prevention actions generally involve economic, political, informational, and diplomatic instruments of national power. For example, an extremely large creditor nation could employ its considerable economic clout and leverage in an attempt to compel or blackmail the United States to not license or permit imaging of its territory, preventing its use, and reducing its exposure to such observation. The creditor nation could seek to accomplish its objective by destabilizing the world market place. It could refuse to purchase treasury offerings that underpin the burgeoning U.S. fiscal and trade deficits, perhaps arguing that remote sensing, especially commercial remote sensing, of its territory infringes on its territorial and sovereign rights, or that it constitutes ‘‘unlawful’’ industrial espionage, and is thus, an unfair trade practice.7 Commercial remote sensing systems are nowan important resource for the United States Government and its national security needs. U.S. Government orders help sustain and stabilize the remote sensing industry,8 and any limitations on activities, whether for U.S. Government customers or commercial ones, imposed in response to external economic threats could evolve to cause problems. In an alternative scenario, a state, acting through political allies and proxies, could exert considerable influence and dominance to affect a change in U.S. law. This change could restrict licensing of commercial remote sensing imagery, restricting the market place and impacting business models for producers.9 As a diplomatic prevention example, adversaries could attempt to use international forums and treaties to deny frequency rights needed by U.S. military or intelligence satellites by making spurious ‘‘paper satellite’’ filings with the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). ‘‘Paper satellites’’ involve ITU applications for satellite orbital slots, many for ‘‘speculative’’ systems that will never leave Earth. These filings can block access to scarce spectrum and orbital resources.10 The ability to place communications and other satellites in geosynchronous orbit (GEO) positions could be held at risk. Some characterize some of these types of actions as a form of ‘‘lawfare.’’ ‘‘The term lawfare describes the growing use of international law claims, usually factually or legally meritless, as a tool of war. The goal is to gain a moral advantage over your enemy in the court of world opinion, and potentially a legal advantage in national and international tribunals.’’11 Prevention actions taken to hobble U.S. space systems are not armed attacks. As is discussed later, the use of force is only authorized under the United Nations (UN) Charter in response to an armed attack, or upon authorization of the UN Security Council. As such, using armed force to deter and defeat prevention actions involving political or diplomatic subterfuge or intrigue may be unlawful under international law. Creative alternative solutions must therefore be found to assure access to space when facing these types of threats. Implications for U.S. Space Strategy The wide span of threats poses profound implications for U.S. space strategy and its execution. First, unlike the Cold War era, the United States now confronts a wide array of global actors, all operating with different motivations and incentives, some of which could become potential adversaries who can attack or threaten space capabilities. These state and non-state adversaries exhibit a wide array of political, economic, technical, and social differences. Having many potential adversaries makes each of them harder to understand. This complicates efforts to understand motivations and to influence perceptions for deterrence purposes. These differences, in turn, increase the likelihood of misperception, undercutting strategies to protect access to space capabilities. When one’s attention is divided, deterrent measures that are appropriate for one target may not be useful, or even counterproductive, for another. This requires tailored intelligence efforts, information operations, and transparency efforts in order to avoid or minimize disputes and prevent problems. Second, the broad array of adversaries exhibit widely varying risk-taking behaviors. Risk-taking behavior can strongly influence an adversary’s perception of a situation. Understanding this phenomenon can lead to better ways of influencing those perceptions. Unfortunately, potential adversaries may not care that space systems offer tremendous value and capabilities to all nations, or care whether conflict in space could create space debris that could cost all nations access to the domain. A strategy to assure continuing access to space assets must therefore be sufficiently flexible to address both risk-averse and risk-taking adversaries. Indeed, potential adversaries may shift from risk-taking to risk-adverse over a relatively short period of time. China may fit in this category. Within a decade or two, it will have its own extensive space-based communications, navigation, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellite constellations, all of which will be integrated into its military operations. No doubt, China will embrace that evolution and become very reliant on space capabilities; this will shift it from an asymmetric competitor to one similar to the United States or Russia. Third, with the demise of the Soviet Union, some political commentators and critics described the United States as a ‘‘hyperpower’’ not just a ‘‘superpower.’’ 12 Though buffeted by recent events involving Iraq, Afghanistan, the Global War on Terror, and the 2008 global financial meltdown, U.S. military supremacy continues. But, that supremacy does not make or guarantee a successful space strategy. Adversaries may believe they have a higher stake than the United States in the outcome of a particular crisis or conflict. Alternatively, the United States stake in the crisis may not be commensurate with the possible cost of involvement by the United States military and the rest of its national security apparatus. The first alternative may encourage mischief by adversaries; the second discourages U.S. action. As a result, adversaries may find threats of U.S. action in response to hostile acts affecting U.S. access to space systems to be non-credible. Fourth, while the United States has produced superlative space capabilities, it has not produced enough systems ready to survive the new kinetic, exotic, jamming, and cyber threat environment. The vulnerability exists because the spacecraft developed and deployed today are in many ways the same as those originally fielded during the Cold War. During that epic struggle, there was a tacit and then explicit understanding that each superpower would not attack and overwhelm the other’s space systems, except in the dire st of circumstances, perhaps during the throes of a nuclear conflagration. Indeed, a number of agreements between the superpowers adopted the understanding and ruled out interference with national technical means, including space assets. This belief in the superiority of space systems and power blinds the United States to the inherent strategic weaknesses and vulnerabilities in these systems. This, predictably, can now be exploited by potential adversaries, such as China, who, with their recent ASAT test, appear more willing to fully explore the technologies needed to expand the limits of conventional war to include the space domain. Consequently, by historically and diplomatically reducing the threat, engineering of some satellite threat detection, attack avoidance, and other defense subsystems have not matured enough so that they are sophisticated, nimble, and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.

Conflict over space is inevitable - reliance on space for terrestrial warfare guarantees it - 2.5 thousand years of history prove

Smith 11-[Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]

It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically from the evidence of two and a half millennia, that anything of great strategic importance to one belligerent, for that reason has to be worth attacking by others. And the greater the importance, the greater has to be the incentive to damage, disable, capture, or destroy it. In the bluntest of statements: space warfare is a certainty in the future because the use of space in war has become vital. . . . Regardless of public sentimental or environmentally shaped attitudes towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming.20 The strategic value of space to states is not in question. Advanced spacefaring states are already reliant—and moving toward dependence—on space-derived services for activities across every sector of their societies. Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.21

Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate

Wortzel, 8 – [Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science]

The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research a variety of forms of space weapons.77 These include:
. satellite jamming technology;
. collisions between space bodies;
. kinetic energy weapons;
. space-to-ground attack weapons;
. space planes that can transit and fight ‘‘up or down’’ in the upper atmosphere or space;
. high-power laser weapons;
. high-power microwave weapon systems;
. particle-beam weapons; and
. electromagnetic pulse.78
PLA authors credit the U.S. with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy. The PLA does have various forms of jamming capability, and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies. The dilemma here for the military theorists or planner in the U.S., is that this is really space science and rocket science. Although Chinese military theory, basic research, and applied research into these areas are transparent, the successes or weapons systems that may become formal programs are not transparent. Regardless of whether the algorithms are correct or not, it is clear that the PLA is serious about space warfare. The destruction of their own weather satellite and the blinding of a U.S. satellite mean they are achieving some success. PLA theorists think that internal lines of communication are most favorable for successful military operations, whether the offense, defense, or maintaining a logistics chain.79 They see internal lines as superior to the conduct of military operations on external lines.80 The Chinese see their regional position in Asia as superior to that of the U.S. because the U.S. has to fight, communicate, and re-supply along extended exterior lines, while China enjoys interior lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that in a conflict, they would probably use their jamming and antisatellite systems to disrupt American lines of communication, command and control, situational awareness, and efforts at coordination at the extended ranges of military conflict for the U.S.81 One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do, therefore, would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide the global, real time sensor and communications capabilities for network centric operations. The PLA believes that the U.S. is heavily dependent on its satellite systems, more dependent than the PLA. That is changing, however. As the PLA modernizes its own Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4SIR) systems, it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the U.S. Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other’s military operations. Space warfare will likely become an integral part of traditional conflict. The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One problem that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing. That is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or war planning sphere thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, an incident could quickly escalate and get out of control, leading to an exchange of weapons or a deeper crisis. For example, four officers from the PLA’s Second Artillery Command College, in Wuhan, have published an analysis of how to jam or destroy the space-based ballistic missile advanced warning systems of the U.S.82 In their article, the officers note, ‘‘a space borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars.’’83 They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S. Defense Support Program (DSP) early warning satellites, including the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. The authors discuss how to destroy the U.S. DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons.84 They also have a discussion of how to jam the satellites, their satellite-to-ground transmissions, or to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack.85 In their conclusion, the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the U.S. from launching a large scale military attack or intervention aimed at China’s own military operations on its southeast coast, i.e., to intervene in Chinese military operations against Taiwan.86 Their view is that ‘‘destroying and jamming space borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help us [the PRC] win the war in space.’’87 The PLA is also aware of the most advanced U.S. synthetic aperture radar imaging systems and are thinking through how to neutralize or jam them.88 The problem in this reasoning is that there is no consideration given to a likely American reaction to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by the U.S. is that it might well think it is coming under immediate attack and launch its own strike against China’s strategic missile forces. Another reasonable reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground based laser or direct ascent launch. Even if such a reaction by the U.S. used conventional weapons, the PLA may find it has created a deeper crisis that led to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists, like Cai, advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to U.S. Air Force Space Command manual AFM 2–2.1, Space Warfare and Countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of ‘‘space deterrence’’ to counter American space superiority. 89 For Huang, this shift toward space deterrence mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.90 Huang defines this as ‘‘the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent’s space power to deter that opponent in a practical way.’’91 The goal of this concept of deterrence is to increase the PLA’s power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary’s power.92 The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one’s own economic, military, and science and technology power to ‘‘ruin an opponent’s economy and ability to function in space.’’93 The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the 11 January 2007 destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA’s own direct ascent kill vehicle is clear when interpreted through this concept of demonstrating space deterrence.94 As Huang concedes, for a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability. A deterrent must be demonstrated. It is also important to note that effective space deterrence, as conceived by this writer, includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4SIR systems. In the future, there could be other examples of space deterrence to let the U.S. and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. The PLA could demonstrate various forms of jamming. In doing so, the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Chinese journals do discuss maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to accidental collisions between space bodies. China could deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they still would demonstrate a space deterrent capability. Conclusions There are a number of important findings to this research effort. First, in the event of conflict with the PLA, military operations carried out across all the domains of war, ground, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum, or information- and cyber-warfare, are likely. Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated cyber or information attack on an enemy’s knowledge and command systems. Second, there will probably be strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise, in any future conflict between China and the U.S. Prior to direct conflict, the PLA and the Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions by conducting what it calls legal warfare.95 Third, the concept of legal warfare will be applied by the PRC Foreign Ministry, the security services, Chinese Communist Party liaison Department, and the PLA to exploit political divisions in the U.S. over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems. Fourth, the PLA will seek to exercise space control in a limited area of conflict. The PLA will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of commons in space, over 100,000 m, in peacetime. If direct conflict breaks out, altitude limits on space control are off, and any systems carrying adversary military traffic or signals are probably fair game for the PLA. U.S. Navy Secretary Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August 2007, said that the U.S. still wants to understand what the Chinese intention is in its military modernization.96 This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions. There are a number of China’s activities and policy positions coming from Beijing that make it hard to interpret Chinese intent. Among these are: China’s expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of armed force to reinforce these claims;97 the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space outlined in this paper; and the shaping of the ‘‘space battlefield’’ with legal arguments that would justify China’s actions to prevent space observation over its territory. The U.S. has taken a course with China that is far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach with the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Both states are heavily involved in trade, economic, and political engagements with each other. Nonetheless, both states are wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and there exist some deep fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. The U.S. and the Soviet Union seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other’s free passage in space. Also, they agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance. No such dialogue has taken place with China. The PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. Often, senior military or Chinese Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a cold war mentality.98 Yet discussions on these issues are important to clarify the rationales for America’s positions on space and serve as threat reduction measures. Although China’s intentions are not fully known, they can be inferred from Chinese actions, like the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its own weather satellite as a demonstration of capability. PRC intentions can also be inferred from judicious reviews of its military literature. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its military literature, it is clear that China’s leaders are preparing as though they may have to fight the U.S. To this end, the PLA is busily preparing the space battlefield in advance with legal arguments, as called for in its doctrine. As a result, there are very sound reasons to prepare to defend American interests in space, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict.

The risk of crisis instability and miscalc is high – the PLA is isolated from the Chinese government

MacDonald 11 –[ Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis]

One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the result of miscalculation that ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, the PLA's senior officer corps trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They have much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. This means that the PLA overall views world events from a less knowledgeable and sophisticated perspective, a danger in this increasingly complex world, and could explain, for example, the political "tonedeafness" of the PLA in the manner they conducted their 2007 ASAT test. This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that the PLA is organizationally separate from the rest of the Chinese government, and reports only to the Central Military Commission, currently chaired by President Hu Jintao. President Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background, and the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. government. Normally this would not be too great a concern, but in a crisis this could be dangerous. Add to this the fact that China has no equivalent of our National Security Council, a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking, and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure. In a crisis, the PLA probably cannot be counted on to show as sophisticated a sense of judgment as one would hope any country's military leaders, even an enemy's, to show. All these problems and many more pose potential threats to internal political stability and Communist Party control, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space Space assets, and the communications and cyber links that enable them to function, are the means by which essential national security information is either generated, transmitted, or both. This information is the lifeblood of U.S. conventional military superiority and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture as well. As such, these space related assets represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict, and their relative vulnerability can provide dangerously attractive incentives in a crisis to preempt, escalating to war. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise: going first in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary appears to offer many advantages, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems. Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space when "going first" pays off - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours. We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.

That crushes deterrence and risks miscalc and nuclear escalation

Burke 6 – [Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]

The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services; the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets. One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland or an attack that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US.44 Although a major attack on the US is not likely, the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a devastating miscalculation that the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike. The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also weakens conventional deterrence. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, the Chinese might seek to disrupt or destroy regional space capabilities as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a fait accompli.45 A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49 The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “Space capabilities are no longer nice to have, but are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars.”51 The failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets. The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52 Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives. The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces. Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability. The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55 Today, other nations are working to develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to take the lead in what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—information war. The current coverage gaps in our space surveillance network, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons without our knowledge. Finally, without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is to deter an attack on US space assets. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. A senior officer in US Strategic Command recently stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57

Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony

Marshall 8 –[ NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A
MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science]

Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’ of the current military capability of the United States (U.S.). This is for two reasons: (1) the U.S. military space systems—in particular reconnaissance, navigation, signals intelligence, early warning, and communications systems—are critical to modern military warfare and intelligence; and (2) space systems are inherently vulnerable to attack. This combination is understood at the highest levels and was espoused in the ‘‘Rumsfeld Space Commission’’ with talk of a ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor.’’1 Whether one agrees with the tone, this is a genuine security problem for the U.S. in need of a near-term solution. While there have been numerous papers, and much media and academic attention, in the space security discussion focused on promoting or criticizing space-based weapons,2 there have been far fewer papers and studies offering constructive ways forward that deal with these genuine security concerns in a broader sense.3 The central motivation for this paper is to put forward one key element—the satellite architecture—in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of U.S. space assets. It is hoped that this idea, together with others like it, should stimulate and contribute to a debate on more constructive ways forward for how to achieve space security in the post-Cold war world. Importance of Space Assets For better or worse, it is clear that the U.S. military is to some significant extent dependent on its key satellites, which number about 86–105 operational satellites at present. These satellites constitute a significant part of the eyes, ears, and central nervous system of the modern military.4 A practical example that helps to illustrate this is the case of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. First, the decision to go was based in part on satellite imagery and signals intelligence from satellites; whether or not it was interpreted or used correctly is a separate issue. Second, the planning and operation were facilitated by satellite imagery. Third, many planes, ships, tanks, and units’ positions were known through Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, and even most munitions were guided by GPS. Fourth, the operation was commanded from the U.S. in large part through the use of communications satellites. Perhaps more importantly than any of the functions in the Iraq example, early warning (EW) satellites are the U.S.’s and Russia’s first warning of nuclear missile attack. As Gray classified, space assets have moved from being ‘‘useful and important’’ to an ‘‘indispensable adjunct’’ in the military over the last decade.5 Space assets are definitely used a great deal by the U.S. military, but that does not mean necessarily as strong a dependence as Gray implies. The loss of U.S. space assets could range in its effect anywhere from a loss to the U.S. military in practical operations, to being catastrophic to U.S. security. The former would entail a reduction in operational effectiveness or speed, but fundamentally supposes that back-up systems and/or redundancy allow a near continuation of military capability. The latter scenario would entail an effective disablement of the U.S. military capability from normal operations. In reality, the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.

Heg solves conflict, trade, and cooperation

Zhang* and Shi **11-[Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and** Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]

Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

Commitment to ORS is vital to deterrence by denial

Sejba 10 – [USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]

The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,” no longer is a sanctuary outside the reach of foreign intervention. The threat to space systems and their capabilities is broad, ranging from reversible effects such as jamming or blinding, to more destructive means such as anti-satellite weapons. It is now time to take actions for the sake of space, and assure its continued contributions across the full spectrum of military operations. Given the criticality of space to not only our military power, but also our economic power, it is time we develop policies and field capabilities to deter future adversaries from attempting to degrade, deny, or destroy space capabilities and services. The asymmetric advantages enabled by space can no longer be assumed and as a result, a new National Security Strategy for space must be forged, one that combines deterrence with basic protection capabilities never before afforded our space systems. Yet, space deterrence is not an “all in” strategy, nor can it reduce the risk of attack to zero.1 Should aspects of deterrence fail, we must take steps to defend and protect our space systems and the critical global services they provide. Operationally responsive space (ORS) by definition is “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of joint force commanders’ needs.”2 Dissected further, one key word stands out: assured … being sufficiently robust, timely, agile, adaptive, and resilient, to achieve desired outcomes with a high degree of certainty.3 So while ORS intends to provide operational and tactical support to the joint warfighter, its true value will be the assurance it provides as a credible strategic deterrent against space attacks. As a deterrent, ORS provides access to existing capabilities, or rapid deployment and employment of new capabilities, denying the benefits our adversaries may seek by attacking our space capabilities. Through timely and accurate intelligence, we can work to understand our adversaries’ intent and armed with this knowledge, we gain the opportunity to influence their decision-making calculus. Understanding intent, coupled with credible and timely ORS capabilities, can effectively deny or greatly reduce the benefits they seek by attacking the asymmetric advantages enabled by space. ORS provides a responsiveness that will allow the commander, US Strategic Command (CDR USSTRATCOM), to respond and support our combatant commands real-time and near-term requirements. To support these requirements, ORS consists of three tiers of capabilities: Tier 1, the employment of existing capabilities within minutes to hours; Tier 2, the rapid call-up, launch and deployment of tailored, ready to field capabilities within days to weeks; and finally, Tier 3, the rapid development of a new capability to meet a combatant commander’s joint urgent operational need within months to a year. The Unified Command Plan assigns CDR USSTRATCOM the responsibility for all military space. The space systems under his authority and control provide our warfighters increased speed, precision, and lethality in military operations. In 2007, during an Air Force Association speech in Los Angeles, California, General C. Robert Kehler, commander, Air Force Space Command and former deputy commander, USSTRATCOM, stated that the biggest difference between 25 years ago and today, was that “space today is embedded in combat operations.”4 ORS’ strategic deterrent value has the potential to be just as important to future combat operations. Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When Applied to Space For years, deterrence theory centered solely on nuclear deterrence strategies, which relied heavily on threats of punishment and unacceptable losses or mutually assured destruction. These strategies effectively deterred the use of nuclear weapons throughout the Cold War to present day. However, strategies of threatening devastating nuclear retaliation do not apply to space. In fact, a deterrence strategy that includes the threat of punishment (i.e., impose cost) should be just one, if not a limited aspect of deterrence for space. For almost half a century, nuclear deterrence strategies formed the foundation for the Cold War waged between the US and the former Soviet Union. Both superpowers relied on the threat of nuclear weapons to deter even conventional military actions, for fear of rapid escalation. In its most unlimited form, mutual assured destruction was a key deterrence strategy; a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both the attacker and the defender.5 While nuclear weapons continue to be a strategic deterrent, the same destructive thought process and strategy is not directly applicable to space.6 Today, some theorists focus and apply more punishing or destructive deterrence practices and thinking to the space domain. They view credible deterrence in space as relying upon the threat of punishment against an aggressor; going so far as to suggest that an attack against us could be countered with an attack in kind. One specific definition limits deterrence to an “attempt to persuade an adversary by threat of force (and other measures) not to pursue an undesirable course of action.”7 Another theorist states, “Deterrence can only succeed if the enemy finds the threat of punishment to be believable.”8 These approaches are less likely to deter for space, especially given our dependence upon the domain. For example, destroying an adversary’s satellite, especially one in an operational orbit, would create a large debris field, potentially hampering or denying our own ability to access space. Instead, deterrence for space can only succeed if our enemies believe we have credible means of denying the benefits they seek to gain. Space deterrence theory should focus on credible ways and means to deny an enemy the benefits they seek; impose costs on our adversaries (against their most prized assets);9 and encourage their restraint. A New Focus of Deterrence What does deterrence look like in the 21st century? The US has not yet figured that out, said Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “You need something that deters a conflict, and you need more choices than just nuclear. ~ Sandra I. Erwin, Future of War—How the Game is Changing … Our deterrence strategy no longer rests primarily on the grim premise of inflicting devastating consequences on potential foes.… ~ US National Security Strategy, 2006 In fact, the US does have new and plausible thoughts on 21st century deterrence. Authored under the leadership of General Cartwright, then commander of USSTRATCOM, and signed out in December 2006, the Deterrence Operations Joint Operating Concept (DO-JOC) is the Department of Defense’s (DoD) latest view on deterrence. This approach extends beyond traditional nuclear deterrence theory, which dates back to the heralded days of Strategic Air Command. The DO-JOC states that the purpose or objective of deterrence operations is to “convince adversaries not to take actions that threaten US vital interests by means of decisive influence over their decision-making.”10 In order to influence our adversaries’ decision-making calculus, it focuses on and integrates three key elements: Deny the benefits the adversary seeks; impose costs the adversary fears; and encourage adversary restraint (by convincing them that restraint will result in an acceptable outcome).11 Of these three elements, denying the benefit should be our focus when fielding new ORS capabilities. Deterrence today can only succeed if our adversaries find ORS credible enough to enable military operations even in a contested environment. Deny the Benefits—ORS Tier 1 and Tier 2 Examples People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space: Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict. ~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12 The purpose to benefit denial is to convince an adversary that their intent will not be achieved, or have little to no value. Today, our ability to field ORS capabilities is minimal at best, and unconvincing as a credible deterrent. Instead, our adversaries likely perceive great benefit in attempting to deny the US’ space capabilities. These benefits, also referred to as “vulnerabilities gaps,”13 are reasons why we must pursue ORS with an increased sense of urgency. However, for benefit denial to be viewed as a credible deterrent, the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Study states “our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack.”14 The space and cyberspace domains are increasingly important to how current and future wars will be fought and won. As recently as 4 November 2009, the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) top Air Force Commander, Xu Qiliang, called the militarization of space an “historical inevitability.”15 This statement came on the heels of an historic visit to USSTRATCOM by General Xu Chihou, one of two vice chairmen of the PRC’s Central Military Commission. During this visit, General Kevin P. Chilton encouraged increased cooperation and comprehensive bilateral relationships between the two space-faring nations.16 Statements from Qiliang and actions such as the 2007 anti-satellite test highlight a growing disconnect between the PRC’s actions and stated policies, increasing concern amongst US leaders and lending credence to the need for new deterrence practices. Moving forward, to be a true deterrent, ORS must also win the race to space in both the speed and cost of fielding capability versus our adversaries’ attempts to counter, destroy, or deny them. Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible role in deterring adverse actions against our space capabilities: (1) International cooperation and partnerships through shared space capabilities (Tier 1) and (2) the ability to rapidly augment or replace some aspect of existing on-orbit ISR assets in low Earth orbit (Tier 2). Tier 1 and Two ORS capabilities can be deployed and employed rapidly, within hours to days. The cost for Tier 1 includes implementing new concept of operations for deployed on-orbit systems, or the rapid, low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2.

Expanding ORS will deter attacks against US space assets

Putman 9 – USAF Major, operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,
DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron (Christopher, “Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event

The United States has taken some initial steps to improve its defensive capabilities. The DoD stood up the joint Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Office on May 21,2007 at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico. The ORS effort seeks to meet emerging warfighter needs with new space capabilities. Ron Sega, DoD executive agent for space, stated that efforts will focus on the "ability to launch, activate and employ low-cost military-useful satellites, provide, search capability, reconstitute and augment existing capability, while providing timely availabilities of tailor-made, unique capabilities. ,,39 Further, the DoD's Plan for Operationally Responsive Space highlighted the need to increase "situational awareness and adaptability to the threat, as well as an ability to evolve the total suite of space capabilities to address emerging threats in new ways.,,40 The Commander of United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM) detailed three efforts vital to execute the plan: rapidly develop technological and operational innovations, rapidly modify or supplement existing systems to increase capabilities, and rapidly reconstitute space systems when necessary to maintain capability.41 Initial focus on capabilities will be on ISR and communication satellites, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid launch capabilities, and command and control. 42 The ORS effort will use a three tier capability approach to meet warfighter needs. Tier-1 implements activities immediately-to-days using existing or on-orbit systems. Tier-2 utilizes field-ready systems in days-to-weeks to provide rapid exploitation, augmentation or reconstitution of space capabilities. Finally, Tier-3 solutions take months-to-one year to satisfy needs while capabilities are modified or developed and then deployed.43 The ORS implementation timeline envisions eight tactical satellite demonstrators through fiscal year 2013. As of January 2009, two demonstrators have been launched with the third delayed from a scheduled spring 2009 launch due to technical issues. The program timeline also includes tests of operational employment and integration, command and control, and launch vehicles. The ORS program office recently purchased the first three launch vehicle specifically procured for ORS with launches scheduled for 2010 and 2011. Finally, the DoD expects the "Chiliworks" facility at Kirtland Air Force Base, which will focus onTier-2 satellite fielding, to be fully operational by 2015.44 While there are other ongoing efforts within the Intelligence Community and the DoD45 , ORS provides a good starting point for implementation of recommendations within this paper. The ORS plan identifies the need for both anticipatory and reactive elements. ORS planners should focus on the Chinese threat to build capabilities to fit within the Tier-1 and Tier-2 categories. The conflict with China would have to extend past a year to make use ofTier-3 capabilities. The United States must anticipate Chinese actions and have field-ready systems ready for either preemptive or immediate reactive use. Field-ready systems would provide a credible defensive deterrent against existing and likely Chinese offensive anti-satellite actions. PROPOSED DEFENSIVE ACTIONS The United States can choose from a wide variety of options to develop a defensive strategy to counter the Chinese threat to LEO satellites. The comprehensive approach should address space situational awareness (SSA), preplanned satellite actions, launch capability, small satellites, decreased dependence on space systems, nuclear explosion protection, institutional changes, transparency, and engagement. Space Situational Awareness Improving SSA is essential to the success of this strategy. The United States must have a comprehensive knowledge of all objects in orbit. Although the United States maintains a significant Space Surveillance Network (SSN) network, it lacks coverage in key areas and the capability to comprehensively predict the orbits of all objects in space; the February 10, 2009 collision between an Iridium commercial satellite and a Russian military satellite caught the SSN by surprise.46 The United States could build more fixed ground sites, but this would be limited by host country permissions and fiscal constraints. As a near term improvement to coverage, the United States should leverage the US Navy's AEGIS cruiser and destroyer-based radars into its SSN. The AEGIS radar highlighted its space surveillance capability when it tracked a decaying US satellite, enabling its destruction by a US anti-satellite weapon in 2008.47 While the Navy assets need to train and execute their primary mission, they could be given alternate tasking to search and track objects in LEO. This would entail development of procedures between services. Further, integration of land and space-based missile warning sensors into the SSN would yield benefits in the event of an anti-satellite launch. Finally, the United States should continue to pursue satellite as a sensor technology, where the satellite has the ability to self-identify and report on attacks. Improved SSA also allows the United States to characterize the resultant debris field of an anti-satellite attack and thus support reactive measures that may be required by other satellites. Intelligence Directly related to improved SSA is a robust intelligence effort that focuses on Chinese anti-satellite activity. Indications and warning may include increased communication at tracking stations, deployment of mobile tracking stations, and fueling and dispersal of launch vehicles. Identification and reporting of Chinese anti-satellite preparations would enable execution of preemptive defensive actions by the United States. Preplanned Satellite Actions Establishing preplanned actions is key to deterring and reacting to an anti-satellite attack. While the time from launch to impact for the SC-19 is on the order of minutes, intelligence of an impending launch can lengthen the timeline for taking preemptive defensive actions. While limited on-board fuel prevents large orbital maneuvers, a one-time small change to a satellite's orbit is possible. These orbital maneuvers must be executed before the launch of the anti-satellite weapon. Changes in orbit will produce a discrepancy between the anticipated satellite location and the final satellite tracking just prior to launch. The inconsistency may cause the Chinese to doubt the quality of their data and delay the launch as they develop new orbital tracking data, thus opening a window for additional US actions to prevent a launch. However, if the Chinese did decide to launch without updating their data, the slight change in orbit may cause the antisatellite weapon to miss. These same procedures would also be effective against ground-based anti-satellite weapons; a maneuver could lead to a laser missing the target. Having preplanned actions ready to execute provides United States planners another option. If a conflict looks to be inevitable, they could decide to rapidly execute minor maneuvers across satellite constellations. While not only complicating the Chinese targeting process, this could serve as non-destructive shot across the bow. If the conflict escalates into a conventional war, the single maneuver may buy the United States enough time to execute a kinetic strike that would dismantle the Chinese anti-satellite program. The importance of these strikes would move the priority high on the targeting list. Here again, intelligence is a key enabler. Targets must be accurately located, vetted, and updated to enable quick strikes on the anti-satellite targets. Variable and Rapid Launch Capability The current United States Department of Defense launch complex does not have the capability to rapidly replenish satellites in the event of destruction. Launch preparation and execution can take weeks to months. The United States must adopt rapid and flexible commercial launch technologies. Of at least equal importance to having a rapid launch capability is a launch system that deploys satellites from varying locations. When launched from the traditional space ports of Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg Air Force Base, China can easily monitor the launch and quickly determine the initial orbit and possibly satellite type. Having a capability that can unpredictably launch from unmonitored locations will delay China's ability to track and identify United States satellites, greatly inhibiting their ability to target satellites. This capability could be sea-based, where monitoring by an adversary is more difficult. The capability could also be airborne, like the Pegasus program which has successfully launched satellites using an L-I0ll aircraft from California, Virginia, Florida, the Canary Islands, and the Marshall Islands. 48 Small Satellites The United States must also make a move towards smaller satellites that use a common bus and architecture. A single launch vehicle could then deploy multiple small satellites, allowing the rapid establishment of a new constellation at the beginning of a conflict or replenishment of an old one. China would then face a dilemma as to which satellites they would attack. If China does decide to attack, the impact would be proportionately smaller because they would take out a lesser percentage of the constellation. The Iridium collision demonstrated the ability of a large constellation to absorb the loss of single satellite with minimal degradation. 49 Having numerous small satellites ready to launch can also lesson the need to perform defensive orbital maneuvers, as they can be quickly replenished. Finally, small satellites are inherently harder to track whether by radar or optical telescopes. While a requirement for large satellites remains; small satellites will help protect and complement the large satellites. Key to developing small satellites is a common command and control (C2) network regardless of function, rather than today's stovepiped C2 that are unique for each satellite type. A common bus and C2 system can also support small satellites by relying on a cross-linked network to control satellites and download mission data from a central location rather than on ground stations distributed around the globe. Decreased Dependence on Space Systems The United States must decrease its dependence on space systems, making attack on satellites a less appealing target. United States military forces should have weapons and procedures that can function with or without satellite support. For example, high altitude unmanned aerial vehicles can and should complement, and potentially replace, the LEO satellite ISR mission. Countering High-altitude Nuclear Explosions Although the possibility of a HANE may be remote, defense against the long term radiation effects must focus on hardening all future satellites against nuclear explosions. Without hardening, depending on the size of the constellation, satellite replenishment could take months and quickly exhaust satellite spares even with rapid reaction launch capabilities. Building satellites to withstand the nuclear weapon radiation effects beyond that required against the natural environment would add only 2 to 3 percent to total satellite cost.50 Consideration may be given to forgoing hardening for satellites designed for a short (days to weeks) lifetime; one should consider the radiation from a nuclear explosion may remain for up to two years, precluding the launch of non-hardened satellites into the affected orbital regime. 51 While some government low-earth orbit satellites are already hardened, the United States should harden all future satellites. Institutional Changes Changes must be properly incorporated into the DoD infrastructure to be effective. All aspects of doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities must be examined. Additionally, the changes must work across many organizations within the DoD and throughout the United States government. For example, STRATCOM should run comprehensive anti-satellite exercises that incorporate all applicable services and agencies, from the satellite operator to the end user. Transparency The above actions may deter China from further pursuing its anti-satellite programs, but only if executed in a transparent manner. Systems must be fully trained and tested; the United States must overtly demonstrate its capability to rapidly deploy satellites. China must be made fully aware of US capabilities to effectively counter its anti-satellite weapons. China may then realize that its actions will have minimal effect on US military capabilities. Engagement Beyond using a military response to protect government satellites, the United States should consider a holistic approach to China's anti-satellite capabilities by using the other elements of national power: diplomatic, information, and economic. China's current reliance on space is minimal when compared to the United States. China can therefore afford to use antisatellite weapons against the United States. Increased Chinese reliance on space would provide significant deterrents to Chinese use ofcertain weapons such as direct ascent, co-orbital, and nuclear, since collateral damage from these weapons would affect China. First, the United States should engage on Chinese proposed treaties limiting space weapons. Next, the United States should work to build Chinese economic dependence on space systems, while taking appropriate measures to limit technology transfer. With a gap between the Space Shuttle and Ares launch vehicles, an opportunity exists to bring China in as a partner on the International Space Station by providing equipment launch services. Working with China to build its reliance on and participation in space activities will help build deterrence to the use of anti-satellite weapons; the collateral effects would harm its own interests. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS While this paper focuses on LEO satellites, the same rigor must also be applied to medium Earth orbit (MEO), highly elliptical orbit (REO), and geosynchronous (GEO) orbit satellites. Although current direct ascent anti-satellite capability can only reach LEO, China's ballistic• missile and space launch vehicles could reach higher orbits. Additionally, China has orbited GEO satellites which could already be carrying co-orbital anti-satellite weapons. China has expressed interest in combating the MEO GPS system through both kinetic and non-kinetic attacks.52 China is also actively developing jamming capabilities to combat United States military communications satellites found predominately in GEO. Additionally, the proposed defensive measures will do more than support deterrence against China. Numerous nations will seek to emulate Chinese actions with kinetic and nonkinetic options. In response to the recent anti-satellite activity of China and the United States, Russia announced the resumption of its anti-satellite weapons program.53 Ground-based actions such as jamming are within the realm of many nations and individuals. One only need look at the hijacking of the HBO satellite signal by "Capt Midnight" as an example of a single individual being able to steal a satellite transponder, in effect jamming the intended signal. 54 Further, proliferation of nuclear weapon and ballistic missile technology make the use of a HANE attractive to a rogue nation or terrorist nation that has little reliance on space capabilities. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency suggests this scenario as a possible last act of defiance by North Korean forces facing defeat,55 Lastly, these measures can be used to combat natural phenomena, such as a meteor shower or solar storms that can damage satellite systems. “A strategy that ensures access to and use of space is useful in times of peace just as in times of war, since space systems that provide critical services may fail or become inoperative in the absence of hostile action.”56 Finally, the United States must not stop at applying these recommendations merely to military satellites. While government satellites are critical in a conflict, commercial satellites in all orbital regimes have become an integral part of military operations to include weather, imaging, and communications. Although tightly tied to the world economy, China could decide to expand its anti-satellite program to attack the economic interests of the United States. While commercial satellites companies typically incorporate protective measures against natural threats, the United States government should share best practices and provide incentives to commercial entities to protect themselves against human threats. The government could do this through requirements to obtain licensing or guaranteed govemment contracts to companies that comply. CONCLUSION The fundamental U.S. security interest in the wake of China's 2007 anti-satellite test should be deterring China and others from attacking U.S. assets in space, using both a combination of declaratory policy, military programs, and diplomacy, and promoting a more stable and secure space environment.57 Council on Foreign Relations The United States government requires a comprehensive plan to counter the threat to its LEO systems posed by Chinese anti-satellite weapons. Failing to protect these key satellites would severely degrade US military capabilities in a conflict with China. The United States should rely on a defensive space strategy to deter Chinese anti-satellite actions. The strategy must include robust space situational awareness, preplanned actions, small satellites, rapid and variable launch capability, decreased dependence on space systems and institutional changes. In total, these actions would complicate the ability for Chinese anti-satellite weapons to easily strike US assets while providing the means to operate through an attack and then reconstitute lost capability. The DoD's ORS effort can be used as springboard, but must be accelerated to meet the rapidly emerging threat. Finally, its growth as a space faring nation may eventually be the best deterrence against a Chinese attack on United States satellites. However, the actions outlined in this paper can also be used to counter threats from other nations or natural phenomena. A rapid comprehensive defensive deterrence approach most effectively counters the Chinese threat and meets Presidential guidance to establish “contingency plans to ensure that U.S. forces can maintain or duplicate access to information from space assets and accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58

===Solar Storms=== 
Contention Three is Solar Storms –

They’ll hit Earth in 2013 – no precise predictions
Wall 9/13 –[Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 'Old Faithful' Sunspot to Fire Off More Solar Flares, Scientists Say,http://www.space.com/12921-sun-solar-flares-faithful-sunspot.html]

An active region of the sun that blasted out powerful solar storms four days in a row last week likely isn't done yet, scientists say. Officially, the flare-spouting region is called sunspot 1283. But space weather experts have dubbed it "Old Faithful," after the famous geyser in the United States' Yellowstone National Park that goes off like clockwork. And the solar Old Faithful should erupt again before it dissipates, researchers said. "It still has a fair amount of complexity," said solar physicist C. Alex Young of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. "So we still have a pretty good chance of seeing some more stuff from this one." An active sunspot Sunspots are temporary dark patches on the solar surface caused by intense magnetic activity. Some last for hours before disappearing; others linger for days, weeks or even months. Powerful solar storms often erupt from sunspots. These include radiation-flinging solar flares and phenomena known as coronal mass ejections (CMEs) — massive clouds of solar plasma that can streak through space at up to 3 million mph (5 million kph). From Sept. 5-8, sunspot 1283 produced four big flares and three CMEs. Two of the flares were X-class events and two were M-class flares. (Strong solar flares are classified according to a three-tiered system: X-class are the most powerful, M-class are of medium strength and C-class are the weakest.) While the rapid motion previously observed in sunspot 1283 seems to have died down a bit, Young said, the sunspot looks poised to erupt again sometime soon. "There's a good probability that we're still going to see at least another M-class flare, possibly another X-class flare," Young told SPACE.com. It's not uncommon for sunspots to pop off a number of powerful flares in quick succession the way 1283 has done, he added. That seems to be the natural order of things. "When you see one big flare, your chances of seeing another one are pretty good," Young said. A photo of a sunspot taken in May 2010, with Earth shown to scale. The image has been colorized for aesthetic reasons. This image with 0.1 arcsecond resolution from the Swedish 1-m Solar Telescope represents the limit of what is currently possible in terms of spatial resolution. CREDIT: The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, V.M.J. Henriques (sunspot), NASA Apollo 17 (Earth) View full size imageLearning more about solar storms Solar flares directed at Earth can cause temporary radio-communication blackouts. CMEs have even greater destructive potential; they can spawn geomagnetic storms that disrupt GPS signals, radio communications and power grids. [Sun's Wrath: Worst Solar Storms in History] So researchers are working hard to better understand sun storms, with the aim of one day being able to predict them with a great deal of accuracy and a long lead time. But they're not there yet. "We still have a long way to go to really have the kind of forecasting capabilities that we have with terrestrial weather," Young said. That's not to say scientists aren't making progress. Indeed, they've learned a lot about solar eruptions lately, Young said. And the knowledge base will continue to grow, he added, as a fleet of sun-watching spacecraft beam home more and more observations of Earth's star. "We're really in a great time right now in terms of the data that we have," Young said, citing the contributions of spacecraft such as NASA's STEREO and Solar Dynamics Observatory, as well as SOHO, a collaboration between NASA and the European Space Agency. "It's going to be pretty exciting, from a solar physics and a space weather point of view." All of these eyes on the sun should be treated to quite a show over the next several years. Solar activity has been ramping up over the last few months as the sun works toward a maximum in its 11-year activity cycle. Scientists expect the peak of the current cycle, which is known as Solar Cycle 24, to come in 2013.

We win uniqueness – storms at their peak

Lovett 11 –[Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]

On February 14 the sun erupted with the largest solar flare seen in four years—big enough to interfere with radio communications and GPS signals for airplanes on long-distance flights. As solar storms go, the Valentine's Day flare was actually modest. But the burst of activity is only the start of the upcoming solar maximum, due to peak in the next couple of years."The sun has an activity cycle, much like hurricane season," Tom Bogdan, director of the Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colorado, said earlier this month at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C."It's been hibernating for four or five years, not doing much of anything." Now the sun is waking up, and even though the upcoming solar maximum may see a record low in the overall amount of activity, the individual events could be very powerful. In fact, the biggest solar storm on record happened in 1859, during a solar maximum about the same size as the one we're entering, according to NASA. That storm has been dubbed the Carrington Event, after British astronomer Richard Carrington, who witnessed the megaflare and was the first to realize the link between activity on the sun and geomagnetic disturbances on Earth.

The probability is 100%

Sternstein 10-[ staff correspondent at Nextgov, 2010 (Aliya, “Agencies rush to replace aging satellite to predict damaging solar storms,” Nextgov, part of the National Journal Group Inc. and the Atlantic Media Company, August 9, http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20100809_7393.php)
Every 11 years…not that great."]

Every 11 years, solar activity intensifies, and the next peak in activity is scheduled for 2013. The most significant storm on record hit in 1859, illuminating the night sky in light and shorting telegraph systems worldwide. Sparks shocked operators and set paper aflame. Today, space weather of that magnitude would be a significant problem for spacecraft, astronauts and planes flying in high altitudes because they would encounter radiation from solar material. Such conditions also would interfere with modern high-frequency radio communications and GPS navigation. The nation has become increasingly dependent on communications and location-based technologies, including smart phones, electronic financial transactions and power grids, so the impact would be far greater than it was in 1859, federal officials said. "The whole thing about going into another active period of solar activity is: It's going to happen. We just don't know when, we don't know the severity of it, but we know it has happened," FEMA Administrator W. Craig Fugate said in June at the U.S. government's annual space weather conference, which focused on critical infrastructure protection. "This isn't just a hypothetical what-if. We actually know. We have seen these events occur before, so this isn't something that we've got to go convince people that this might happen. It has happened. We're just fortunate that the frequency is not that great.

Huge solar flares knock out U.S communication and GPS satellites

Marusek 07-[nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm Threat Analysis,” Impact, http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]

In the past, solar storms have caused billions of dollars of commercial satellites to malfunction and die prematurely. A Great solar storm has the power to destroy many space assets (Space Station, Space Shuttle, LEO Satellites, GEO Satellites, Off World Missions) simultaneously. In our technology driven society, satellites play an important role in communications. The loss of satellites can affect: major news wire service feeds, network television, satellite television and cable programming, nationwide radio service, weather data, cell phone service, pagers, automated teller machines, gas station credit card handling services, airline weather tracking services, earthquake monitoring network, blackberries, GPS navigation service, and critical military & airline communications. And this list grows longer every day. Current commercial satellites are light-weight, sophisticated, built at the lowest cost using off-the-shelf electronics. 3 This current low cost approach makes new satellite design more vulnerable to damage from solar storms due to less radiation hardening. A high-energy particle from an SPE can penetrate the wall of a satellite and deposit sufficient charge to cause an electrical upset to a circuit switch, false command, memory state change or loss. 1 As the nuclear particles collide within the spacecraft, they release electrons that build up an internal dielectric charge. This static charge can destroy circuitry on electronic boards. The particles can also change data and instructions stored in computer memory. Only deaths with “day, month and year” listed were used in this analysis.Impact, 2007 James A. Marusek 21 Some of the memory damage is soft causing Single Event Upset (SEU). Generally, this anomaly can be corrected by a computer reboot. But some of the damage can be hard causing unrepairable physical damage to the junction of the microcircuit. These types of failures can be fatal.


Space assets are key to the economy

Johnson & Hudson 8 – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination

Commercially, the economy of the United States is heavily dependent on space assets in virtually every industry. Communications, Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, agriculture, weather monitoring, and shipment tracking in the manufacturing sector are all indispensable to workings of the market.7, 8 With international economies interwoven across borders and cultures, damage to a critical satellite might pose serious monetary repercussions throughout multiple countries. For example, nearly a decade ago the failure of the Galaxy IV satellite rendered certain communications useless for two days. “The failure of that one satellite left about 80 (to) 90 percent of the 45 million pager customers in the United States without service…and 5400 of 7700 Chevron gas stations without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9

Radiation from the flares renders satellites inoperable- this will collapse the economy

Forbes 9-14-11-[“A Powerful Solar Storm Could Render Satellites Inoperable For Years;”( http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/09/14/a-powerful-solar-storm-could-render-satellites-inoperable-for-years/]jt

Last October, around Halloween, the Sun produced a solar storm that was one of the largest ever recorded, and was strong enough to raise some concerns about the safety of Earth’s satellites. According to a recent paper published in Space Weather, such concern may well be justified. If its conclusions are correct, then a solar storm the size of one that was observed in 1859 could potentially kill several weather, telecommunications, and military satellites in less than a year. Here’s where the danger lies: most satellites, at least at some point in their orbits, fly through the inner radiation belt surrounding the Earth (aka the Van Allen Belt). The inner radiation belt, like it says on the tin, comprises quite a bit of intense radiation. However, satellites are shielded from that radiation, and the intensity of the radiation in the inner belt is relatively stable. That’s because it’s in large part shielded from high-energy particles by the plasmasphere, which is a cloud of plasma that is part of the Earth’s magnetosphere. Usually, when a solar storm hits, most of the radiation either hits the outer radiation belt or the plasmaphere. When the plasmasphere gets hit, some of the plasma dissipates, making it smaller, but that dissipation prevents too much intense radiation from hitting the inner belt. During the Halloween storms, observations showed that there was significant erosion of the plasmasphere. Not enough to let significant radiation into the inner belt, but enough that the study authors wanted to take a closer look at the data. Based on observational data of solar storms, the radiation belts, and the plasmasphere during past years, the authors were able to successfully model the Halloween solar storm. They then modeled a solar storm with the intensity of the Carrington Solar Storm, which took place in 1859 and is estimated to have been about four times stronger than the Halloween storms. When the Carrington storm was modeled, the results showed that the plasmasphere was eroded to the point that much more radiation reached the inner belt than is normally the case. Moreover, the intensity produced “waves” of strong radiation continually moving through the inner belt. Based on their models, the authors suggest that the high radiation intensity of the inner belt could persist for as long as a decade. That intensity would likely swamp the radiation shielding on a typical satellite, and the authors estimate that most would be rendered inoperable within a year after the storm. The loss of satellites as a result of a solar storm would be an economic catastrophe – we rely on satellites for a large portion of our day to day lives, even when we don’t realize it. The researchers hope to continue their work modeling radiation from solar storms, with an eye towards better and more accurate predictions, as well as looking for ways to diminish the impacts of such storms. In the meantime, the authors suggest that satellite engineers incorporate the potential for intensification of the inner radiation belt in their radiation mitigation strategies. That strikes me as a good idea.


Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression

Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 –[[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ]http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]

Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.

Redundancy and Reconstitution is key to protect satellite systems

CBS 9-28-11-[September 28, 2011 1:06 PM PRINT TEXT -“Satellites threatened by sun "superstorms" By Charles Q. Choi http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/28/scitech/main20112845.shtml]jt

(Space.com) Magnetic storms set off by the sun could pose a bigger threat than thought to weather, communication, military and other satellites close to Earth, with a potentially devastating economic impact, scientists suggest. In the new study, researchers found that solar radiation can energize a belt of high-energy particles that surrounds Earth more dramatically than previously believed. The study focused on the possible effects of a particularly strong magnetic storm on the Van Allen radiation belts, the dangerous rings of high-energy particles that girdle the Earth. The belts are split into two distinct zones. The outer belt, which is made up of electrons, reaches from about 15,800 to 31,600 miles (25,500 to 51,000 kilometers) above the surface, while the inner belt, which consists of a mix of electrons and protons, reaches from about 4,000 to 8,000 miles (6,400 to 12,800 km) above. Scientists had known the outer belt could become far more intense during geomagnetic storms caused by high-energy particles spewed by the sun, such as the storm that supercharged Earth's northern lights display Monday night (Sept. 26). However, they have long thought such storms do not affect the inner belt. Now computer simulations suggest that during a "superstorm" -- which has occurred in the past and is likely to recur in the future ? the electrons in the inner belt, too, could become energized. Near-Earth radiation could then remain dramatically more intense for several years afterward. "The increase in radiation in the inner zone may last for up to a decade and continue damaging satellites for years after a very strong storm," study lead author Yuri Shprits, a space physicist at the University of California, Los Angeles, told SPACE.com. This radiation would damage satellites in that zone and potentially cut their lifetimes by five-sixths or more. [Related: Space Radiation to Rise for Astronauts, Airline Passengers] "It would not destroy all satellites at once," Shprits said. "However, at least according to our calculations, a very strong storm can increase the radiation dose in the inner zone by a factor of 10, and within a few years we may lose a significant portion of the satellites that traverse the inner zone." In terms of new strategies that might be needed to protect satellite systems, "it's hard to say," Shprits said. "First of all, we need to estimate risks and estimate cost. If cost is too high, we may want to accept the risks and start getting ready to replenish the fleet in the case of such event." "There are a number of rather expensive strategies that can be used to mitigate the risk, including redundancy in electronics and increased shielding," he added. "Zero risk means infinite cost." Two missions to study the radiation belts are planned for 2012, Shprits noted: NASA's Radiation Belt Storm Probe will observe radiation belts in the equatorial plane, while Moscow State University's LOMONOSOV mission, with UCLA-built instruments on board, will observe radiation belts at low altitudes. The scientists detailed their findings online in the Aug. 25 issue of the journal Space Weather.
==1AC - Newark Round 3== 

===Plan=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space by developing a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, hardening of satellites, and the deployment of small satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

===Deterrence=== 
Contention One is Deterrence

Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence –makes a space attack inevitable
Rendleman, 10 –[ Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science]
The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) kinetic-kill interceptor against one of their own defunct weather satellites generated considerable angst across the United States space community. The 2007 test demonstrated that the importance of space capabilities is also their Achilles heel, that is, their deadly weakness in spite of overall strength; it is far too easy to neutralize space systems and their power. In the broad strategic context, space capabilities have their own set of unique, inherent vulnerabilities, which are largely the result of orbital mechanics. This invites destruction, damage, and even just mischief delivered by even the least significant adversary. However, other nations may seek to deny U.S. advantages in space through a variety of negation and prevention actions. Negation Threats Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base. Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5 Space-based threats proliferate as a result of the ever-growing global availability of technology and access to the space domain. There are huge incentives for states to invest in and use space , and the spread of space technologies has occurred. States with sufficient resources can now reach out to space and ‘‘touch’’ satellites through a variety of means, and achieve one and even more of the five Ds. Spacecraft are vulnerable to direct ascent weapons as demonstrated by the Chinese ASAT test, and to a variety of other groundbased, airborne, and space-based ASAT technologies. Direct-ascent launched, or orbit-based nuclear devices, can be detonated, generating radiation and other lethal effects to destroy unshielded electronics over a wide lethal range. Co-orbital ASATs could be employed, comparable to the old Soviet system that was tested extensively in the 1970s and early 80s. In a less likely scenario, space-borne mines can also be deployed in close proximity to spacecraft, or exploded to generate debris clouds that destructively engage whole classes of satellites in the same orbital plane or in crossing orbits. Ground, space-based, or airborne lasers could be used by adversaries to wreak havoc. Blinding operations could be executed and inflict effects ranging from temporary ‘‘dazzling’’ to permanent burnout of optical or other sensors with intense energy bursts. Ground systems, supporting communications, and their nodes, are vulnerable to diverse land, sea, or air kinetic attacks, including sabotage. Unprotected systems are also susceptible to electronic attack through jamming and electromagnetic deception techniques. Jammers emit signals that mask or prevent reception of desired signals; these methods can disrupt uplinks, downlinks, and even cross-links. By disabling the means of command and control, and data communications, jammers render satellites inoperable or unavailable. Electromagnetic deception techniques can be employed to confuse systems; this could include sending false, but deceptively plausible, commands that cause spacecraft to perform damaging or wasteful maneuvers, modify databases or execute configuration changes, or otherwise destroy it. Similarly, supporting terrestrial ground stations, computer networks, and links are vulnerable to information operation and cyber attacks. These attacks could involve directing global denial of service tasks, injecting fake commands, malicious software and viruses into the space system, performing unauthorized monitoring and disclosure of sensitive information (data interception), and causing unauthorized modification or deliberate corruption of network information, services, and databases. In sum, there is a wide span of kinetic and other types of attacks an adversary could consider and employ. There is potential that even non-state actors can access some of these technologies and space systems, and achieve several of the five Ds; however, it is unlikely they can obtain and then employ a full-spectrum of these means and achieve all of these effects. Conducting an attack within the space domain involves a rather substantial investment to develop, acquire, operate, and sustain needed shooter, sensor, and command and control systems. Given the scope and commitment needed to affect such a move, an on-orbit attack would probably be made only in the context of a larger strategic struggle, perhaps as a prelude to or part of early combat operations. On the other hand, inexpensive jamming technology is available to even the poorest potential adversaries. As such, jamming poses the most used and growing threat to space systems. Some argue that jamming also carries with it implicit political and legal sanctions since no major space power has moved to ban or make even temporary and reversible jamming illegal. This may change now that a number of nations have banned together to object to recent Iranian satellite jamming.6 Cyber adversaries and criminals are also beginning to hone their craft. They present an evolving threat to space systems; and like jamming, cyber threats can be developed and deployed for only modest investments. Prevention Threats Prevention actions generally involve economic, political, informational, and diplomatic instruments of national power. For example, an extremely large creditor nation could employ its considerable economic clout and leverage in an attempt to compel or blackmail the United States to not license or permit imaging of its territory, preventing its use, and reducing its exposure to such observation. The creditor nation could seek to accomplish its objective by destabilizing the world market place. It could refuse to purchase treasury offerings that underpin the burgeoning U.S. fiscal and trade deficits, perhaps arguing that remote sensing, especially commercial remote sensing, of its territory infringes on its territorial and sovereign rights, or that it constitutes ‘‘unlawful’’ industrial espionage, and is thus, an unfair trade practice.7 Commercial remote sensing systems are nowan important resource for the United States Government and its national security needs. U.S. Government orders help sustain and stabilize the remote sensing industry,8 and any limitations on activities, whether for U.S. Government customers or commercial ones, imposed in response to external economic threats could evolve to cause problems. In an alternative scenario, a state, acting through political allies and proxies, could exert considerable influence and dominance to affect a change in U.S. law. This change could restrict licensing of commercial remote sensing imagery, restricting the market place and impacting business models for producers.9 As a diplomatic prevention example, adversaries could attempt to use international forums and treaties to deny frequency rights needed by U.S. military or intelligence satellites by making spurious ‘‘paper satellite’’ filings with the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). ‘‘Paper satellites’’ involve ITU applications for satellite orbital slots, many for ‘‘speculative’’ systems that will never leave Earth. These filings can block access to scarce spectrum and orbital resources.10 The ability to place communications and other satellites in geosynchronous orbit (GEO) positions could be held at risk. Some characterize some of these types of actions as a form of ‘‘lawfare.’’ ‘‘The term lawfare describes the growing use of international law claims, usually factually or legally meritless, as a tool of war. The goal is to gain a moral advantage over your enemy in the court of world opinion, and potentially a legal advantage in national and international tribunals.’’11 Prevention actions taken to hobble U.S. space systems are not armed attacks. As is discussed later, the use of force is only authorized under the United Nations (UN) Charter in response to an armed attack, or upon authorization of the UN Security Council. As such, using armed force to deter and defeat prevention actions involving political or diplomatic subterfuge or intrigue may be unlawful under international law. Creative alternative solutions must therefore be found to assure access to space when facing these types of threats. Implications for U.S. Space Strategy The wide span of threats poses profound implications for U.S. space strategy and its execution. First, unlike the Cold War era, the United States now confronts a wide array of global actors, all operating with different motivations and incentives, some of which could become potential adversaries who can attack or threaten space capabilities. These state and non-state adversaries exhibit a wide array of political, economic, technical, and social differences. Having many potential adversaries makes each of them harder to understand. This complicates efforts to understand motivations and to influence perceptions for deterrence purposes. These differences, in turn, increase the likelihood of misperception, undercutting strategies to protect access to space capabilities. When one’s attention is divided, deterrent measures that are appropriate for one target may not be useful, or even counterproductive, for another. This requires tailored intelligence efforts, information operations, and transparency efforts in order to avoid or minimize disputes and prevent problems. Second, the broad array of adversaries exhibit widely varying risk-taking behaviors. Risk-taking behavior can strongly influence an adversary’s perception of a situation. Understanding this phenomenon can lead to better ways of influencing those perceptions. Unfortunately, potential adversaries may not care that space systems offer tremendous value and capabilities to all nations, or care whether conflict in space could create space debris that could cost all nations access to the domain. A strategy to assure continuing access to space assets must therefore be sufficiently flexible to address both risk-averse and risk-taking adversaries. Indeed, potential adversaries may shift from risk-taking to risk-adverse over a relatively short period of time. China may fit in this category. Within a decade or two, it will have its own extensive space-based communications, navigation, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellite constellations, all of which will be integrated into its military operations. No doubt, China will embrace that evolution and become very reliant on space capabilities; this will shift it from an asymmetric competitor to one similar to the United States or Russia. Third, with the demise of the Soviet Union, some political commentators and critics described the United States as a ‘‘hyperpower’’ not just a ‘‘superpower.’’ 12 Though buffeted by recent events involving Iraq, Afghanistan, the Global War on Terror, and the 2008 global financial meltdown, U.S. military supremacy continues. But, that supremacy does not make or guarantee a successful space strategy. Adversaries may believe they have a higher stake than the United States in the outcome of a particular crisis or conflict. Alternatively, the United States stake in the crisis may not be commensurate with the possible cost of involvement by the United States military and the rest of its national security apparatus. The first alternative may encourage mischief by adversaries; the second discourages U.S. action. As a result, adversaries may find threats of U.S. action in response to hostile acts affecting U.S. access to space systems to be non-credible. Fourth, while the United States has produced superlative space capabilities, it has not produced enough systems ready to survive the new kinetic, exotic, jamming, and cyber threat environment. The vulnerability exists because the spacecraft developed and deployed today are in many ways the same as those originally fielded during the Cold War. During that epic struggle, there was a tacit and then explicit understanding that each superpower would not attack and overwhelm the other’s space systems, except in the dire st of circumstances, perhaps during the throes of a nuclear conflagration. Indeed, a number of agreements between the superpowers adopted the understanding and ruled out interference with national technical means, including space assets. This belief in the superiority of space systems and power blinds the United States to the inherent strategic weaknesses and vulnerabilities in these systems. This, predictably, can now be exploited by potential adversaries, such as China, who, with their recent ASAT test, appear more willing to fully explore the technologies needed to expand the limits of conventional war to include the space domain. Consequently, by historically and diplomatically reducing the threat, engineering of some satellite threat detection, attack avoidance, and other defense subsystems have not matured enough so that they are sophisticated, nimble, and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.

Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate
Wortzel, 8 – [Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science]
The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research a variety of forms of space weapons.77 These include:

. satellite jamming technology;
. collisions between space bodies;
. kinetic energy weapons;
. space-to-ground attack weapons;
. space planes that can transit and fight ‘‘up or down’’ in the upper atmosphere or space;
. high-power laser weapons;
. high-power microwave weapon systems;
. particle-beam weapons; and
. electromagnetic pulse.78
PLA authors credit the U.S. with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy. The PLA does have various forms of jamming capability, and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies. The dilemma here for the military theorists or planner in the U.S., is that this is really space science and rocket science. Although Chinese military theory, basic research, and applied research into these areas are transparent, the successes or weapons systems that may become formal programs are not transparent. Regardless of whether the algorithms are correct or not, it is clear that the PLA is serious about space warfare. The destruction of their own weather satellite and the blinding of a U.S. satellite mean they are achieving some success. PLA theorists think that internal lines of communication are most favorable for successful military operations, whether the offense, defense, or maintaining a logistics chain.79 They see internal lines as superior to the conduct of military operations on external lines.80 The Chinese see their regional position in Asia as superior to that of the U.S. because the U.S. has to fight, communicate, and re-supply along extended exterior lines, while China enjoys interior lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that in a conflict, they would probably use their jamming and antisatellite systems to disrupt American lines of communication, command and control, situational awareness, and efforts at coordination at the extended ranges of military conflict for the U.S.81 One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do, therefore, would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide the global, real time sensor and communications capabilities for network centric operations. The PLA believes that the U.S. is heavily dependent on its satellite systems, more dependent than the PLA. That is changing, however. As the PLA modernizes its own Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4SIR) systems, it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the U.S. Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other’s military operations. Space warfare will likely become an integral part of traditional conflict. The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One problem that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing. That is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or war planning sphere thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, an incident could quickly escalate and get out of control, leading to an exchange of weapons or a deeper crisis. For example, four officers from the PLA’s Second Artillery Command College, in Wuhan, have published an analysis of how to jam or destroy the space-based ballistic missile advanced warning systems of the U.S.82 In their article, the officers note, ‘‘a space borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars.’’83 They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S. Defense Support Program (DSP) early warning satellites, including the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. The authors discuss how to destroy the U.S. DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons.84 They also have a discussion of how to jam the satellites, their satellite-to-ground transmissions, or to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack.85 In their conclusion, the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the U.S. from launching a large scale military attack or intervention aimed at China’s own military operations on its southeast coast, i.e., to intervene in Chinese military operations against Taiwan.86 Their view is that ‘‘destroying and jamming space borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help us [the PRC] win the war in space.’’87 The PLA is also aware of the most advanced U.S. synthetic aperture radar imaging systems and are thinking through how to neutralize or jam them.88 The problem in this reasoning is that there is no consideration given to a likely American reaction to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by the U.S. is that it might well think it is coming under immediate attack and launch its own strike against China’s strategic missile forces. Another reasonable reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground based laser or direct ascent launch. Even if such a reaction by the U.S. used conventional weapons, the PLA may find it has created a deeper crisis that led to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists, like Cai, advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to U.S. Air Force Space Command manual AFM 2–2.1, Space Warfare and Countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of ‘‘space deterrence’’ to counter American space superiority. 89 For Huang, this shift toward space deterrence mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.90 Huang defines this as ‘‘the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent’s space power to deter that opponent in a practical way.’’91 The goal of this concept of deterrence is to increase the PLA’s power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary’s power.92 The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one’s own economic, military, and science and technology power to ‘‘ruin an opponent’s economy and ability to function in space.’’93 The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the 11 January 2007 destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA’s own direct ascent kill vehicle is clear when interpreted through this concept of demonstrating space deterrence.94 As Huang concedes, for a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability. A deterrent must be demonstrated. It is also important to note that effective space deterrence, as conceived by this writer, includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4SIR systems. In the future, there could be other examples of space deterrence to let the U.S. and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. The PLA could demonstrate various forms of jamming. In doing so, the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Chinese journals do discuss maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to accidental collisions between space bodies. China could deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they still would demonstrate a space deterrent capability. Conclusions There are a number of important findings to this research effort. First, in the event of conflict with the PLA, military operations carried out across all the domains of war, ground, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum, or information- and cyber-warfare, are likely. Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated cyber or information attack on an enemy’s knowledge and command systems. Second, there will probably be strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise, in any future conflict between China and the U.S. Prior to direct conflict, the PLA and the Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions by conducting what it calls legal warfare.95 Third, the concept of legal warfare will be applied by the PRC Foreign Ministry, the security services, Chinese Communist Party liaison Department, and the PLA to exploit political divisions in the U.S. over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems. Fourth, the PLA will seek to exercise space control in a limited area of conflict. The PLA will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of commons in space, over 100,000 m, in peacetime. If direct conflict breaks out, altitude limits on space control are off, and any systems carrying adversary military traffic or signals are probably fair game for the PLA. U.S. Navy Secretary Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August 2007, said that the U.S. still wants to understand what the Chinese intention is in its military modernization.96 This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions. There are a number of China’s activities and policy positions coming from Beijing that make it hard to interpret Chinese intent. Among these are: China’s expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of armed force to reinforce these claims;97 the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space outlined in this paper; and the shaping of the ‘‘space battlefield’’ with legal arguments that would justify China’s actions to prevent space observation over its territory. The U.S. has taken a course with China that is far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach with the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Both states are heavily involved in trade, economic, and political engagements with each other. Nonetheless, both states are wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and there exist some deep fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. The U.S. and the Soviet Union seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other’s free passage in space. Also, they agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance. No such dialogue has taken place with China. The PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. Often, senior military or Chinese Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a cold war mentality.98 Yet discussions on these issues are important to clarify the rationales for America’s positions on space and serve as threat reduction measures. Although China’s intentions are not fully known, they can be inferred from Chinese actions, like the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its own weather satellite as a demonstration of capability. PRC intentions can also be inferred from judicious reviews of its military literature. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its military literature, it is clear that China’s leaders are preparing as though they may have to fight the U.S. To this end, the PLA is busily preparing the space battlefield in advance with legal arguments, as called for in its doctrine. As a result, there are very sound reasons to prepare to defend American interests in space, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict.

The risk of crisis instability and miscalc is high – the PLA is isolated from the Chinese government

MacDonald 11 –[ Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis]
One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the result of miscalculation that ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, the PLA's senior officer corps trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They have much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. This means that the PLA overall views world events from a less knowledgeable and sophisticated perspective, a danger in this increasingly complex world, and could explain, for example, the political "tonedeafness" of the PLA in the manner they conducted their 2007 ASAT test. This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that the PLA is organizationally separate from the rest of the Chinese government, and reports only to the Central Military Commission, currently chaired by President Hu Jintao. President Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background, and the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. government. Normally this would not be too great a concern, but in a crisis this could be dangerous. Add to this the fact that China has no equivalent of our National Security Council, a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking, and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure. In a crisis, the PLA probably cannot be counted on to show as sophisticated a sense of judgment as one would hope any country's military leaders, even an enemy's, to show. All these problems and many more pose potential threats to internal political stability and Communist Party control, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space Space assets, and the communications and cyber links that enable them to function, are the means by which essential national security information is either generated, transmitted, or both. This information is the lifeblood of U.S. conventional military superiority and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture as well. As such, these space related assets represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict, and their relative vulnerability can provide dangerously attractive incentives in a crisis to preempt, escalating to war. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise: going first in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary appears to offer many advantages, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems. Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space when "going first" pays off - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours. We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.

Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony
Marshall 8 –[ NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A

MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science]
Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’ of the current military capability of the United States (U.S.). This is for two reasons: (1) the U.S. military space systems—in particular reconnaissance, navigation, signals intelligence, early warning, and communications systems—are critical to modern military warfare and intelligence; and (2) space systems are inherently vulnerable to attack. This combination is understood at the highest levels and was espoused in the ‘‘Rumsfeld Space Commission’’ with talk of a ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor.’’1 Whether one agrees with the tone, this is a genuine security problem for the U.S. in need of a near-term solution. While there have been numerous papers, and much media and academic attention, in the space security discussion focused on promoting or criticizing space-based weapons,2 there have been far fewer papers and studies offering constructive ways forward that deal with these genuine security concerns in a broader sense.3 The central motivation for this paper is to put forward one key element—the satellite architecture—in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of U.S. space assets. It is hoped that this idea, together with others like it, should stimulate and contribute to a debate on more constructive ways forward for how to achieve space security in the post-Cold war world. Importance of Space Assets For better or worse, it is clear that the U.S. military is to some significant extent dependent on its key satellites, which number about 86–105 operational satellites at present. These satellites constitute a significant part of the eyes, ears, and central nervous system of the modern military.4 A practical example that helps to illustrate this is the case of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. First, the decision to go was based in part on satellite imagery and signals intelligence from satellites; whether or not it was interpreted or used correctly is a separate issue. Second, the planning and operation were facilitated by satellite imagery. Third, many planes, ships, tanks, and units’ positions were known through Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, and even most munitions were guided by GPS. Fourth, the operation was commanded from the U.S. in large part through the use of communications satellites. Perhaps more importantly than any of the functions in the Iraq example, early warning (EW) satellites are the U.S.’s and Russia’s first warning of nuclear missile attack. As Gray classified, space assets have moved from being ‘‘useful and important’’ to an ‘‘indispensable adjunct’’ in the military over the last decade.5 Space assets are definitely used a great deal by the U.S. military, but that does not mean necessarily as strong a dependence as Gray implies. The loss of U.S. space assets could range in its effect anywhere from a loss to the U.S. military in practical operations, to being catastrophic to U.S. security. The former would entail a reduction in operational effectiveness or speed, but fundamentally supposes that back-up systems and/or redundancy allow a near continuation of military capability. The latter scenario would entail an effective disablement of the U.S. military capability from normal operations. In reality, the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.

Heg solves conflict, trade, and cooperation
Zhang* and Shi **11-[Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and** Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]
Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.
Commitment to ORS is vital to deterrence by denial
Sejba 10 – [USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]
The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,” no longer is a sanctuary outside the reach of foreign intervention. The threat to space systems and their capabilities is broad, ranging from reversible effects such as jamming or blinding, to more destructive means such as anti-satellite weapons. It is now time to take actions for the sake of space, and assure its continued contributions across the full spectrum of military operations. Given the criticality of space to not only our military power, but also our economic power, it is time we develop policies and field capabilities to deter future adversaries from attempting to degrade, deny, or destroy space capabilities and services. The asymmetric advantages enabled by space can no longer be assumed and as a result, a new National Security Strategy for space must be forged, one that combines deterrence with basic protection capabilities never before afforded our space systems. Yet, space deterrence is not an “all in” strategy, nor can it reduce the risk of attack to zero.1 Should aspects of deterrence fail, we must take steps to defend and protect our space systems and the critical global services they provide. Operationally responsive space (ORS) by definition is “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of joint force commanders’ needs.”2 Dissected further, one key word stands out: assured … being sufficiently robust, timely, agile, adaptive, and resilient, to achieve desired outcomes with a high degree of certainty.3 So while ORS intends to provide operational and tactical support to the joint warfighter, its true value will be the assurance it provides as a credible strategic deterrent against space attacks. As a deterrent, ORS provides access to existing capabilities, or rapid deployment and employment of new capabilities, denying the benefits our adversaries may seek by attacking our space capabilities. Through timely and accurate intelligence, we can work to understand our adversaries’ intent and armed with this knowledge, we gain the opportunity to influence their decision-making calculus. Understanding intent, coupled with credible and timely ORS capabilities, can effectively deny or greatly reduce the benefits they seek by attacking the asymmetric advantages enabled by space. ORS provides a responsiveness that will allow the commander, US Strategic Command (CDR USSTRATCOM), to respond and support our combatant commands real-time and near-term requirements. To support these requirements, ORS consists of three tiers of capabilities: Tier 1, the employment of existing capabilities within minutes to hours; Tier 2, the rapid call-up, launch and deployment of tailored, ready to field capabilities within days to weeks; and finally, Tier 3, the rapid development of a new capability to meet a combatant commander’s joint urgent operational need within months to a year. The Unified Command Plan assigns CDR USSTRATCOM the responsibility for all military space. The space systems under his authority and control provide our warfighters increased speed, precision, and lethality in military operations. In 2007, during an Air Force Association speech in Los Angeles, California, General C. Robert Kehler, commander, Air Force Space Command and former deputy commander, USSTRATCOM, stated that the biggest difference between 25 years ago and today, was that “space today is embedded in combat operations.”4 ORS’ strategic deterrent value has the potential to be just as important to future combat operations. Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When Applied to Space For years, deterrence theory centered solely on nuclear deterrence strategies, which relied heavily on threats of punishment and unacceptable losses or mutually assured destruction. These strategies effectively deterred the use of nuclear weapons throughout the Cold War to present day. However, strategies of threatening devastating nuclear retaliation do not apply to space. In fact, a deterrence strategy that includes the threat of punishment (i.e., impose cost) should be just one, if not a limited aspect of deterrence for space. For almost half a century, nuclear deterrence strategies formed the foundation for the Cold War waged between the US and the former Soviet Union. Both superpowers relied on the threat of nuclear weapons to deter even conventional military actions, for fear of rapid escalation. In its most unlimited form, mutual assured destruction was a key deterrence strategy; a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both the attacker and the defender.5 While nuclear weapons continue to be a strategic deterrent, the same destructive thought process and strategy is not directly applicable to space.6 Today, some theorists focus and apply more punishing or destructive deterrence practices and thinking to the space domain. They view credible deterrence in space as relying upon the threat of punishment against an aggressor; going so far as to suggest that an attack against us could be countered with an attack in kind. One specific definition limits deterrence to an “attempt to persuade an adversary by threat of force (and other measures) not to pursue an undesirable course of action.”7 Another theorist states, “Deterrence can only succeed if the enemy finds the threat of punishment to be believable.”8 These approaches are less likely to deter for space, especially given our dependence upon the domain. For example, destroying an adversary’s satellite, especially one in an operational orbit, would create a large debris field, potentially hampering or denying our own ability to access space. Instead, deterrence for space can only succeed if our enemies believe we have credible means of denying the benefits they seek to gain. Space deterrence theory should focus on credible ways and means to deny an enemy the benefits they seek; impose costs on our adversaries (against their most prized assets);9 and encourage their restraint. A New Focus of Deterrence What does deterrence look like in the 21st century? The US has not yet figured that out, said Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “You need something that deters a conflict, and you need more choices than just nuclear. ~ Sandra I. Erwin, Future of War—How the Game is Changing … Our deterrence strategy no longer rests primarily on the grim premise of inflicting devastating consequences on potential foes.… ~ US National Security Strategy, 2006 In fact, the US does have new and plausible thoughts on 21st century deterrence. Authored under the leadership of General Cartwright, then commander of USSTRATCOM, and signed out in December 2006, the Deterrence Operations Joint Operating Concept (DO-JOC) is the Department of Defense’s (DoD) latest view on deterrence. This approach extends beyond traditional nuclear deterrence theory, which dates back to the heralded days of Strategic Air Command. The DO-JOC states that the purpose or objective of deterrence operations is to “convince adversaries not to take actions that threaten US vital interests by means of decisive influence over their decision-making.”10 In order to influence our adversaries’ decision-making calculus, it focuses on and integrates three key elements: Deny the benefits the adversary seeks; impose costs the adversary fears; and encourage adversary restraint (by convincing them that restraint will result in an acceptable outcome).11 Of these three elements, denying the benefit should be our focus when fielding new ORS capabilities. Deterrence today can only succeed if our adversaries find ORS credible enough to enable military operations even in a contested environment. Deny the Benefits—ORS Tier 1 and Tier 2 Examples People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space: Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict. ~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12 The purpose to benefit denial is to convince an adversary that their intent will not be achieved, or have little to no value. Today, our ability to field ORS capabilities is minimal at best, and unconvincing as a credible deterrent. Instead, our adversaries likely perceive great benefit in attempting to deny the US’ space capabilities. These benefits, also referred to as “vulnerabilities gaps,”13 are reasons why we must pursue ORS with an increased sense of urgency. However, for benefit denial to be viewed as a credible deterrent, the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Study states “our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack.”14 The space and cyberspace domains are increasingly important to how current and future wars will be fought and won. As recently as 4 November 2009, the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) top Air Force Commander, Xu Qiliang, called the militarization of space an “historical inevitability.”15 This statement came on the heels of an historic visit to USSTRATCOM by General Xu Chihou, one of two vice chairmen of the PRC’s Central Military Commission. During this visit, General Kevin P. Chilton encouraged increased cooperation and comprehensive bilateral relationships between the two space-faring nations.16 Statements from Qiliang and actions such as the 2007 anti-satellite test highlight a growing disconnect between the PRC’s actions and stated policies, increasing concern amongst US leaders and lending credence to the need for new deterrence practices. Moving forward, to be a true deterrent, ORS must also win the race to space in both the speed and cost of fielding capability versus our adversaries’ attempts to counter, destroy, or deny them. Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible role in deterring adverse actions against our space capabilities: (1) International cooperation and partnerships through shared space capabilities (Tier 1) and (2) the ability to rapidly augment or replace some aspect of existing on-orbit ISR assets in low Earth orbit (Tier 2). Tier 1 and Two ORS capabilities can be deployed and employed rapidly, within hours to days. The cost for Tier 1 includes implementing new concept of operations for deployed on-orbit systems, or the rapid, low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2.
1AC-Solar Storms

===Solar Storms=== 

Contention Two is Solar Storms –

They’ll hit Earth in 2013 – no precise predictions

Wall 9/13 –[Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 'Old Faithful' Sunspot to Fire Off More Solar Flares, Scientists Say,http://www.space.com/12921-sun-solar-flares-faithful-sunspot.html]
An active region of the sun that blasted out powerful solar storms four days in a row last week likely isn't done yet, scientists say. Officially, the flare-spouting region is called sunspot 1283. But space weather experts have dubbed it "Old Faithful," after the famous geyser in the United States' Yellowstone National Park that goes off like clockwork. And the solar Old Faithful should erupt again before it dissipates, researchers said. "It still has a fair amount of complexity," said solar physicist C. Alex Young of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. "So we still have a pretty good chance of seeing some more stuff from this one." An active sunspot Sunspots are temporary dark patches on the solar surface caused by intense magnetic activity. Some last for hours before disappearing; others linger for days, weeks or even months. Powerful solar storms often erupt from sunspots. These include radiation-flinging solar flares and phenomena known as coronal mass ejections (CMEs) — massive clouds of solar plasma that can streak through space at up to 3 million mph (5 million kph). From Sept. 5-8, sunspot 1283 produced four big flares and three CMEs. Two of the flares were X-class events and two were M-class flares. (Strong solar flares are classified according to a three-tiered system: X-class are the most powerful, M-class are of medium strength and C-class are the weakest.) While the rapid motion previously observed in sunspot 1283 seems to have died down a bit, Young said, the sunspot looks poised to erupt again sometime soon. "There's a good probability that we're still going to see at least another M-class flare, possibly another X-class flare," Young told SPACE.com. It's not uncommon for sunspots to pop off a number of powerful flares in quick succession the way 1283 has done, he added. That seems to be the natural order of things. "When you see one big flare, your chances of seeing another one are pretty good," Young said. A photo of a sunspot taken in May 2010, with Earth shown to scale. The image has been colorized for aesthetic reasons. This image with 0.1 arcsecond resolution from the Swedish 1-m Solar Telescope represents the limit of what is currently possible in terms of spatial resolution. CREDIT: The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, V.M.J. Henriques (sunspot), NASA Apollo 17 (Earth) View full size imageLearning more about solar storms Solar flares directed at Earth can cause temporary radio-communication blackouts. CMEs have even greater destructive potential; they can spawn geomagnetic storms that disrupt GPS signals, radio communications and power grids. [Sun's Wrath: Worst Solar Storms in History] So researchers are working hard to better understand sun storms, with the aim of one day being able to predict them with a great deal of accuracy and a long lead time. But they're not there yet. "We still have a long way to go to really have the kind of forecasting capabilities that we have with terrestrial weather," Young said. That's not to say scientists aren't making progress. Indeed, they've learned a lot about solar eruptions lately, Young said. And the knowledge base will continue to grow, he added, as a fleet of sun-watching spacecraft beam home more and more observations of Earth's star. "We're really in a great time right now in terms of the data that we have," Young said, citing the contributions of spacecraft such as NASA's STEREO and Solar Dynamics Observatory, as well as SOHO, a collaboration between NASA and the European Space Agency. "It's going to be pretty exciting, from a solar physics and a space weather point of view." All of these eyes on the sun should be treated to quite a show over the next several years. Solar activity has been ramping up over the last few months as the sun works toward a maximum in its 11-year activity cycle. Scientists expect the peak of the current cycle, which is known as Solar Cycle 24, to come in 2013.

We win uniqueness – storms at their peak
Lovett 11 –[Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]
On February 14 the sun erupted with the largest solar flare seen in four years—big enough to interfere with radio communications and GPS signals for airplanes on long-distance flights. As solar storms go, the Valentine's Day flare was actually modest. But the burst of activity is only the start of the upcoming solar maximum, due to peak in the next couple of years."The sun has an activity cycle, much like hurricane season," Tom Bogdan, director of the Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colorado, said earlier this month at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C."It's been hibernating for four or five years, not doing much of anything." Now the sun is waking up, and even though the upcoming solar maximum may see a record low in the overall amount of activity, the individual events could be very powerful. In fact, the biggest solar storm on record happened in 1859, during a solar maximum about the same size as the one we're entering, according to NASA. That storm has been dubbed the Carrington Event, after British astronomer Richard Carrington, who witnessed the megaflare and was the first to realize the link between activity on the sun and geomagnetic disturbances on Earth.

Huge solar flares knock out U.S communication and GPS satellites

Marusek 07-[nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm Threat Analysis,” Impact, http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]
In the past, solar storms have caused billions of dollars of commercial satellites to malfunction and die prematurely. A Great solar storm has the power to destroy many space assets (Space Station, Space Shuttle, LEO Satellites, GEO Satellites, Off World Missions) simultaneously. In our technology driven society, satellites play an important role in communications. The loss of satellites can affect: major news wire service feeds, network television, satellite television and cable programming, nationwide radio service, weather data, cell phone service, pagers, automated teller machines, gas station credit card handling services, airline weather tracking services, earthquake monitoring network, blackberries, GPS navigation service, and critical military & airline communications. And this list grows longer every day. Current commercial satellites are light-weight, sophisticated, built at the lowest cost using off-the-shelf electronics. 3 This current low cost approach makes new satellite design more vulnerable to damage from solar storms due to less radiation hardening. A high-energy particle from an SPE can penetrate the wall of a satellite and deposit sufficient charge to cause an electrical upset to a circuit switch, false command, memory state change or loss. 1 As the nuclear particles collide within the spacecraft, they release electrons that build up an internal dielectric charge. This static charge can destroy circuitry on electronic boards. The particles can also change data and instructions stored in computer memory. Only deaths with “day, month and year” listed were used in this analysis.Impact, 2007 James A. Marusek 21 Some of the memory damage is soft causing Single Event Upset (SEU). Generally, this anomaly can be corrected by a computer reboot. But some of the damage can be hard causing unrepairable physical damage to the junction of the microcircuit. These types of failures can be fatal.

Space assets are key to the economy
Johnson & Hudson 8 – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination
Commercially, the economy of the United States is heavily dependent on space assets in virtually every industry. Communications, Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, agriculture, weather monitoring, and shipment tracking in the manufacturing sector are all indispensable to workings of the market.7, 8 With international economies interwoven across borders and cultures, damage to a critical satellite might pose serious monetary repercussions throughout multiple countries. For example, nearly a decade ago the failure of the Galaxy IV satellite rendered certain communications useless for two days. “The failure of that one satellite left about 80 (to) 90 percent of the 45 million pager customers in the United States without service…and 5400 of 7700 Chevron gas stations without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9

Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression
Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 –[[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ]http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.
Redundancy and Reconstitution is key to protect satellite systems
CBS 9-28-11-[September 28, 2011 1:06 PM PRINT TEXT -“Satellites threatened by sun "superstorms" By Charles Q. Choi http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/28/scitech/main20112845.shtml]jt
(Space.com) Magnetic storms set off by the sun could pose a bigger threat than thought to weather, communication, military and other satellites close to Earth, with a potentially devastating economic impact, scientists suggest. In the new study, researchers found that solar radiation can energize a belt of high-energy particles that surrounds Earth more dramatically than previously believed. The study focused on the possible effects of a particularly strong magnetic storm on the Van Allen radiation belts, the dangerous rings of high-energy particles that girdle the Earth. The belts are split into two distinct zones. The outer belt, which is made up of electrons, reaches from about 15,800 to 31,600 miles (25,500 to 51,000 kilometers) above the surface, while the inner belt, which consists of a mix of electrons and protons, reaches from about 4,000 to 8,000 miles (6,400 to 12,800 km) above. Scientists had known the outer belt could become far more intense during geomagnetic storms caused by high-energy particles spewed by the sun, such as the storm that supercharged Earth's northern lights display Monday night (Sept. 26). However, they have long thought such storms do not affect the inner belt. Now computer simulations suggest that during a "superstorm" -- which has occurred in the past and is likely to recur in the future ? the electrons in the inner belt, too, could become energized. Near-Earth radiation could then remain dramatically more intense for several years afterward. "The increase in radiation in the inner zone may last for up to a decade and continue damaging satellites for years after a very strong storm," study lead author Yuri Shprits, a space physicist at the University of California, Los Angeles, told SPACE.com. This radiation would damage satellites in that zone and potentially cut their lifetimes by five-sixths or more. [Related: Space Radiation to Rise for Astronauts, Airline Passengers] "It would not destroy all satellites at once," Shprits said. "However, at least according to our calculations, a very strong storm can increase the radiation dose in the inner zone by a factor of 10, and within a few years we may lose a significant portion of the satellites that traverse the inner zone." In terms of new strategies that might be needed to protect satellite systems, "it's hard to say," Shprits said. "First of all, we need to estimate risks and estimate cost. If cost is too high, we may want to accept the risks and start getting ready to replenish the fleet in the case of such event." "There are a number of rather expensive strategies that can be used to mitigate the risk, including redundancy in electronics and increased shielding," he added. "Zero risk means infinite cost." Two missions to study the radiation belts are planned for 2012, Shprits noted: NASA's Radiation Belt Storm Probe will observe radiation belts in the equatorial plane, while Moscow State University's LOMONOSOV mission, with UCLA-built instruments on board, will observe radiation belts at low altitudes. The scientists detailed their findings online in the Aug. 25 issue of the journal Space Weather.

===Agonistic Politics=== 

Contention Three is Agonistic Politics-

First, our conception of debate is key to an agonism – finding the toughest debate and trying to win is critical to personal growth

Yovel, Assistant professor, Faculty of Law, and coordinator of the law and philosophy program, University of Haifa, Israel, in ‘3

[Jonathan, Cardozo Law Review, January, 24 Cardozo L. Rev. 635]

While reactive forces respond to their context and in this way are dictated by them, active forces find their own mediums for action. There is a catch, however. Force needs resistance in order to matter, grow, and be challenged. In a paragraph whose importance to the understanding of Nietzsche's "mechanics" of power can hardly be exaggerated, he spells it out: Strong nature ... needs objects of resistance; hence it looks for what resists ... . The strength of those who attack can be measured in a way by the opposition they require: every growth is indicated by the search for a mighty opponent ... . The task is not simply to master what happens to resist, but what requires us to stake all our strength, suppleness, and fighting skill - opponents that are our equals. n41 Thus the will is measured in the scope of its challenges. But the active will is not satisfied by those challenges it happens to come by. For the challenge to be worthwhile it must be the most powerful possible, and so the Person of Power must cultivate the will to power of those who are not. In debate, the Person of Power will make the best of her opponent's position, nourish it, then go after the strong points or strongest version or interpretation. Kasparov must play Karpov, then Deep Blue. The philosophical problems most worthy of engagement - and Nietzsche spoke of problems as something a philosopher challenges to single combat - are the toughest ones. Of himself, he asserts "I only attack causes which are victorious ... . I have never taken a step publicly that did not compromise me: that is my criterion of doing right." n42 In society, the law that best serves the Person of Power is that which empowers the other to best prepare him for such "war." n43 Law must elevate the other's own powers to the fullest of [*650] their potential (the overman, of course, has no presupposed potential: a potential for her would be power-constraining rather than a horizon for development). The Person of Power will not rely on social norms to serve her in overcoming or in dominating: that is the way of ressentiment. Instead she will form law that will make the best out of that which she must stand up to, namely the others. Nietzsche is no closet-liberal: the principle of law as empowerment of the other is strictly a mean for the will to become more, for the power to will. n44 Law does not empower the other as a subject, although through empowerment the other might discover her own power and so much the better. The other - the person enslaved by the psychology of ressentiment, be he called slave or master - needs not be empowered to become less contemptible, yet it is because of his contemptibility that he must be elevated. Empowerment of the other is the active will's maxim in the exact sense in which the elevated will categorizes natural phenomenon and shapes cognition and language - namely, creating the environment for the best possibilities for the will to cast itself in the world, both natural and social.

Exclusion is INEVITABLE – debate allows us to channel it into agonism. This levels the playing field.

Glover, Ph.D. Candidate, Political Science, University of Connecticut, in ‘8

[Robert. "Scattergories: Towards an Agonistic Critique of the Re-Categorization of American Citizenship in a Globalized Era" Paper presented at the annual meeting of the APSA 2008 Annual Meeting, Hynes Convention Center, Boston, Massachusetts, Aug 28, 2008, http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p278147_index.html]

Agonistic pluralism, or agonism, advances a conception of politics in which contestation and conflictual engagement become the goal of our political encounters, rather than seeking harmonious social cooperation. Most variants of agonism do not simply “celebrate a world without points of stabilization”, as we might find in more avowedly postmodern conceptions of politics, yet agonism does recognize the “perpetuity” and enduring nature of contestation (Honig 1993, 15). The exercise of coercive power, exclusion, and hegemonic marginalization are enduring features of modern politics from this perspective. Rather than seeking to eliminate these features, agonism calls upon us to engage and re-engage these moments in the most inclusive and contentious democratic settings possible, allowing a multiplicity of voices to engage in the struggle for hegemony (Goi 2005, 60). The question remains however as to what an agonistic approach can do to resolve the inherent conflict within American citizenship 18 . Yet this would be to mis-frame the question as agonistic conceptions would not advance a “resolution”, but rather a continuous re-vision and reworking of previous resolutions. I will suggest that agonistic democratic theory offers us three valuable critical insights with regard to contemporary American citizenship. First and foremost, an agonistic approach to citizenship engages the paradoxical and contradictory foundations of citizenship in the U.S. as a constitutive and productive tension, rather than as a “problem” to be transcended or avoided. Second, such an approach would open a space whereby we actively consider the question of extending political voice to non-citizens. Third and lastly, an agonistic framework recognizes that exclusion is an unavoidable element in the constitution of any political community, yet it provides us with a framework of radical pluralism by which to legitimate and continuously renegotiate the terms of that exclusion. An agonistic approach “refus[es] to equate concern for human dignity with a quest for rational consensus” or overarching agreement on the principles driving our political engagement (Connolly 2002, x). Rather, the goal becomes exposure of those moments which are characterized as consensus as the opposite: instances of “originary exclusion” and moments of “hegemony disguised as the reconciliation of two conflicting logics” (Mouffe 2000). 19 However, the problem for agonists is not exclusion in and of itself, contrary to what some critics have charged. 20 William Connolly notes that boundaries are “indispensable”, providing the “preconditions of identity, individual agency, and collective action” (1994, 19). Yet boundaries always accomplish this at the expense of other possibilities, other modes of order. Thus, while agonists recognize that universal inclusion within the political community is an illusory goal, they critique the treatment of exclusion as apolitical or natural, devoid of a decisionistic moment in which a “we-they” distinction is politically created. To act as if these normative tensions can be transcended is to misconceive of the democratic project. By such accounts, Honig writes, the problem of democratic theory is how to find the right match between a people and its law, a state and its institutions. Obstacles are met and overcome, eventually the right match is made and the newlywed couple is sent on its way to try and live happily ever after (Honig 2001b, 109). The reality, according to an agonistic framework, is that such tensions are never truly “overcome”, or to appropriate Honig’s metaphor, the newlyweds are never completely in a state of marital bliss with one another.
And, Debate is not conformity. The constraints that we establish teach us to use context and structures to enable creativity. We should use debate rules as a way to practice “dancing in chains”

Hateb, Prof. Philosophy at Old Dominion University, in ‘2

[Lawrence J., “Prospects For A Democratic Agon: Why We Can Still Be Nietzscheans”, The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 24, pg. 132-147]

It is a mistake, however, to read Nietzsche in simple terms as being against institutions and the rule of law on behalf of self-creation. First of all, even Nietzsche's early celebration of the Dionysian should not be taken as an anti- or extra-political gesture. In BT 21, Nietzsche insists that the Apollonian has coequal status with the Dionysian, and the former is specifically connected with the political order, which is needed to temper the Dionysian impulse toward "ecstatic brooding" and "orgiastic self-annihilation." Those who read Nietzsche as resisting "normalization" and "discipline" (this includes most postmodern readings and Appel's as well 13 ), are not on very firm ground either. For one thing, Nietzschean creative freedom is selective and most people should be ruled by normative orders, because universal unrestricted freedom would cause havoc. 14 Moreover, even selective creative freedom is not an abandonment of order and constraint. Creativity breaks free of existing structures, but only to establish new ones. Shaping new forms requires formative powers prepared by disciplined skills and activated by refined instruments of production. Accordingly, creativity is a kind of "dancing in chains" (WS 140). 15 Creative freedom, then, is not an abandonment of constraint, but a disruption of structure that still needs structure to prepare and execute departures from the norm.

And, attempting to banish exclusion is the root of all violence

Hatab, Professor of Philosophy at Old Dominion University, in ‘02

[Lawrence J., Prospects for a Democratic Agon Why We can still be Nietzscheans: The Journal of Nietzsche]

How can we begin to apply the notion of agonistics to politics in general and democracy in particular? First of all, contestation and competition can be seen as fundamental to self-development and as an intrinsically social phenomenon. Agonistics helps us articulate the social and political ramifications of Nietzsche's concept of will to power. As Nietzsche put it in an 1887 note, "will to power can manifest itself only against resistances; it seeks that which resists it" (KSA 12, p.424). Power, therefore, is not simply an individual possession or a goal of action; it is more a global, interactive conception. For Nietzsche, every advance in life is an overcoming of some obstacle or counterforce, so that conflict is a mutual co-constitution of contending forces. [End Page 134] Opposition generates development. The human self is not formed in some internal sphere and then secondarily exposed to external relations and conflicts. The self is constituted in and through what it opposes and what opposes it; in other words, the self is formed through agonistic relations. Therefore, any annulment of one's Other would be an annulment of one's self in this sense. Competition can be understood as a shared activity for the sake of fostering high achievement and self-development, and therefore as an intrinsically social activity. 10 In the light of Nietzsche's appropriation of the two forms of Eris, it is necessary to distinguish between agonistic conflict and sheer violence. A radical agonistics rules out violence, because violence is actually an impulse to eliminate conflict by annihilating or incapacitating an opponent, bringing the agon to an end. 11 In a later work Nietzsche discusses the "spiritualization of hostility (Feindschaft)," wherein one must affirm both the presence and the power of one's opponents as implicated in one's own posture (TI "Morality as Antinature," 3). And in this passage Nietzsche specifically applies such a notion to the political realm. What this implies is that the category of the social need not be confined to something like peace or harmony. Agonistic relations, therefore, do not connote a deterioration of a social disposition and can thus be extended to political relations. How can democracy in general terms be understood as an agonistic activity? Allow me to quote from my previous work. Political judgments are not preordained or dictated; outcomes depend upon a contest of speeches where one view wins and other views lose in a tabulation of votes; since the results are binding and backed by the coercive power of the government, democratic elections and procedures establish temporary control and subordination—which, however, can always be altered or reversed because of the succession of periodic political contests. . . . Democratic elections allow for, and depend upon, peaceful exchanges and transitions of power. . . . [L]anguage is the weapon in democratic contests. The binding results, however, produce tangible effects of gain and loss that make political exchanges more than just talk or a game. . . . The urgency of such political contests is that losers must yield to, and live under, the policies of the winner; we notice, therefore, specific configurations of power, of domination and submission in democratic politics. 12
Debating about policy is critical to inclusiveness of politics
Burke, Pf Politics & International Relations @ U of New South Wales, Sydney, 07

(Anthony, Theory & Event, Vol. 10, No. 2)

When we consider the problem of policy, the force of this analysis suggests that choice and agency can be all too often limited; they can remain confined (sometimes quite wilfully) within the overarching strategic and security paradigms. Or, more hopefully, policy choices could aim to bring into being a more enduringly inclusive, cosmopolitan and peaceful logic of the political. But this cannot be done without seizing alternatives from outside the space of enframing and utilitarian strategic thought, by being aware of its presence and weight and activating a very different concept of existence, security and action. This would seem to hinge upon 'questioning' as such -- on the questions we put to the real and our efforts to create and act into it.

==1AC - Lakeland== 
===Inherency=== 
Contention One is Inherency
Despite successful test launches, funding for Operationally Responsive Space will be cut

Clark 2/13 – [Stephen writes for Space Flight Now, the Internet’s leadings source of space news. “White House budget would cut military space research” 2/13/12 http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1202/13afbudget/ //NGopaul]

The White House's fiscal year 2013 budget request calls for unclassified U.S. military space spending of about $8 billion, sustaining development of the Defense Department's legacy systems while terminating new weather satellites, the Operationally Responsive Space office, and the Air Force's Space Test Program. The savings mark a reduction from President Barack Obama's fiscal year 2012 budget request, which called for $10.2 billion in military space spending. The Operationally Responsive Space office, headquartered at Kirtland Air Force Base, N.M., would be closed under the budget request. The Pentagon established the ORS program as a joint-force change agent in 2007 to demonstrate space systems on leaner budgets and rapid schedules. The Space Test Program, also garrisoned at Kirtland, would receive $10 million in the budget request, a fraction of the program's $47 million funding level in the current fiscal year. The budget calls for the end of the Space Test Program, which has provided access to space for more than 500 military research payloads since 1965. The program would be terminated to reallocate funding to higher department priorities, the military said in a statement released to Spaceflight Now. Funding in fiscal year 2013 would provide for the closeout of the program. "STP will provide space access and on-orbit operations for as many Space Experiments Review Board (SERB) approved experiments and payloads as possible with the available funding," the Air Force statement said. A military spokesperson said said one more STP mission, named STP-2, would be retained under the Air Force's science and technology budget line. STP-2 was previously slated for launch on an EELV-class rocket in 2014 or 2015. The ORS program and its predecessor organization successfully developed and launched four satellites since 2006, including three TacSat tactical test payloads and an operational low-cost imaging spacecraft. "The Air Force is working to integrate ORS lessons learned into the broader set of space programs, allowing for a more distributed and integrated approach," the department said in a written statement. "To do this, rather than have a stand-alone program office, the Air Force will transition the ORS efforts, principles and activities to the [Air Force] Space and Missile Systems Center." Congress appropriated $110 million for the ORS office in fiscal year 2012, which runs through the end of September. The Obama administration's budget request must still be approved by Congress before being enacted into law. The ORS office reports to the secretary of the Air Force, placing it outside the branch's traditional space bureaucracy. The fiscal year 2013 budget request spreads the ORS office's funding among programs at the Air Force's Space and Missile Systems Center, which managers the branch's space and rocket procurements. "Some of the concepts that came out of ORS will be divided among programs, so rather than having niche capabitilies, you will take those concepts and technologies and have that available to a wider audience at SMC by really giving it to the technology teams there," said Air Force Maj. Gen. Edward Bolton, deputy assistant secretary for budget. The ORS program is investing in modular spacecraft buses aimed at reducing the time between a satellite order and delivery. The office's first operational satellite, named ORS 1, went from the drawing board to the launch pad in less than 3 years for $226 million.

Funding is key
Dinerman 6 – DOD space consultant, and senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch (Taylor, The Space Review, “Tactical IR satellites: operationally responsive spacecraft?,” 8/7, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/675/1

The troops on the ground need information they can use in a timely and easily understood format. Simply to provide them, or division or brigade intelligence staffs that support them, with raw satellite data is probably worse than useless. The next generations of US Army and Marine Corps units are going to require information that can be integrated into their “network-centric” information systems. Imagery from space-based infrared sensors that are specifically designed for tactical utility should be part of these networks. This is a mission for a future constellation of small “operationally responsive” satellites. Part of the constellation should be kept in orbits that take them over places such as south Lebanon or the Afghan-Pakistani border where we can assume that there will be trouble for a long time to come. These should be carefully calibrated on a constant basis, so that their positioning information is ultra-precise. Other satellites can be kept on the ground ready to be launched at relatively short notice to supplement the ones on orbit over the world’s trouble spots, or they could be launched to cover unexpected outbreaks of fighting. A model for the way such a program could be run is GPS, which, over almost three decades, has gone from prototypes to sets of more and more sophisticated and capable satellites. These spacecraft have, on the whole, been both cost effective and free of the kinds of nasty and expensive surprises that have plagued SBIRS and other Air Force satellite programs. An operationally responsive tactical IR satellite system would have to be both affordable and based on proven and reliable technology. The first generation of such satellites may not have all the desired features, but if properly designed—with the right filters and the right level of multi- or hyper-spectral sensitivity—such craft would give the ground forces a valuable early operational capability. To make the program affordable it would have to be designed to use already existing bus and power supply systems and probably also an in-service communications architecture. It would have to be light enough to be launched on a Delta 2 or on a future operationally responsive spacelift vehicle. Most important of all, the funding stream—no matter how much or how little—would have to be predictable so that the contractors would have the incentive to plan for the long term. This would be the most difficult part of the program since it would mean asking Congress to give up part of its power over the annual budget cycle. Another way to keep the program affordable would be to keep the early requirements to a minimum. The first versions should be strictly for ground force use only, with perhaps some applications for Marine Corps amphibious warfare requirements. Only after the system has proven itself should the program be allowed to move on to develop air-to-ground sensor-to-shooter loops. Ultimately a constellation of a dozen or so spacecraft in orbit, backed up by a similar number on the ground, would be ideal for the early versions of the full system. The ground segments will have to be as simple and as inexpensive as possible since it will need to be deployed with more than fifty Army and Marine brigade-sized units as well as with higher headquarters. If the idea of operationally responsive space means anything, it means that the military space forces, particularly Air Force Space Command, are ready to give priority to supporting the troops on the front lines worldwide. Enhancing the combat effectiveness of the Army and the Marines and helping to save American lives should be the highest goal. As Clausewitz put it, “The object of fighting is the destruction or defeat of the enemy.” The more that military space contributes directly to that objective, the better for the troops on the ground and for America as a whole.

ORS is inevitable globally
Wertz, 8 – [president of Microcosm, a space technology small business in Los Angeles, and the general chairman for the first five Responsive Space Conferences (James, “It’s time to get our ORS in gear,” The Space Review, 1/7, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1032/1]

Can the US overcome bureaucratic impediments in order to make it happen? Here we would have to say that no one knows. It may or may not occur for all of the reasons that Dwayne Day has clearly pointed out. The need for ORS has been formalized for some years in the Operationally Responsive Spacelift Mission Need Statement (ORS MNS) of December 20, 2001. But that does not mean that it will actually come about. There are a variety of entrenched interests and organizational sandboxes arrayed against ORS, or trying to reshape it in their own image. This is, of course, the same process that has brought us $32 billion in cost overruns in the ten largest DoD space programs according to a 2007 Aviation Week article. We would have to conclude that the odds of success are slim, but not zero. In many past technology developments, it has been Congress that has made things happen. That may or may not occur here. One thing seems clear: if ORS doesn’t happen in the US, it will certainly happen elsewhere. According to a DoD 2007 assessment, the Chinese have already announced a near-term goal of launching satellites within hours of demand. The Russians have been able to do so for years. The Europeans are well ahead of the US in a formalized process for creating low-cost space missions. The rest of the world will move ahead with the capability to respond rapidly to changing world events, irrespective of whether the US chooses to do so.


===Plan=== 
Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space by developing a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, hardening of satellites, and the deployment of small satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

===Deterrence=== 
Contention Two is Deterrence
Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence –makes a space attack inevitable

Rendleman, 10 –[ Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science]

The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) kinetic-kill interceptor against one of their own defunct weather satellites generated considerable angst across the United States space community. The 2007 test demonstrated that the importance of space capabilities is also their Achilles heel, that is, their deadly weakness in spite of overall strength; it is far too easy to neutralize space systems and their power. In the broad strategic context, space capabilities have their own set of unique, inherent vulnerabilities, which are largely the result of orbital mechanics. This invites destruction, damage, and even just mischief delivered by even the least significant adversary. However, other nations may seek to deny U.S. advantages in space through a variety of negation and prevention actions. Negation Threats Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base. Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5 Space-based threats proliferate as a result of the ever-growing global availability of technology and access to the space domain. There are huge incentives for states to invest in and use space , and the spread of space technologies has occurred. States with sufficient resources can now reach out to space and ‘‘touch’’ satellites through a variety of means, and achieve one and even more of the five Ds. Spacecraft are vulnerable to direct ascent weapons as demonstrated by the Chinese ASAT test, and to a variety of other groundbased, airborne, and space-based ASAT technologies. Direct-ascent launched, or orbit-based nuclear devices, can be detonated, generating radiation and other lethal effects to destroy unshielded electronics over a wide lethal range. Co-orbital ASATs could be employed, comparable to the old types of threats. Implications for U.S. Space Strategy The wide span of threats poses profound implications for U.S. space strategy and its execution. First, unlike the Cold War era, the United States now confronts a wide array of global actors, all operating with different motivations and incentives, some of which could become potential adversaries who can attack or threaten space capabilities. These state and non-state adversaries exhibit a wide array of political, economic, technical, and social differences. Having many potential adversaries makes each of them harder to understand. This complicates efforts to understand motivations and to influence perceptions for deterrence purposes. These differences, in turn, increase the likelihood of misperception, undercutting strategies to protect access to space capabilities. When one’s attention is divided, deterrent measures that are appropriate for one target may not be useful, or even counterproductive, for another. This requires tailored intelligence efforts, information operations, and transparency efforts in order to avoid or minimize disputes and prevent problems. Second, the broad array of adversaries exhibit widely varying risk-taking behaviors. Risk-taking behavior can strongly influence an adversary’s perception of a situation. Understanding this phenomenon can lead to better ways of influencing those perceptions. Unfortunately, potential adversaries may not care that space systems offer tremendous value and capabilities to all nations, or care whether conflict in space could create space debris that could cost all nations access to the domain. A strategy to assure continuing access to space assets must therefore be sufficiently flexible to address both risk-averse and risk-taking adversaries. Indeed, potential adversaries may shift from risk-taking to risk-adverse over a relatively short period of time. China may fit in this category. Within a decade or two, it will have its own extensive space-based communications, navigation, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance satellite constellations, all of which will be integrated into its military operations. No doubt, China will embrace that evolution and become very reliant on space capabilities; this will shift it from an asymmetric competitor to one similar to the United States or Russia. Third, with the demise of the Soviet Union, some political commentators and critics described the United States as a ‘‘hyperpower’’ not just a ‘‘superpower.’’ 12 Though buffeted by recent events involving Iraq, Afghanistan, the Global War on Terror, and the 2008 global financial meltdown, U.S. military supremacy continues. But, that supremacy does not make or guarantee a successful space strategy. Adversaries may believe they have a higher stake than the United States in the outcome of a particular crisis or conflict. Alternatively, the United States stake in the crisis may not be commensurate with the possible cost of involvement by the United States military and the rest of its national security apparatus. The first alternative may encourage mischief by adversaries; the second discourages U.S. action. As a result, adversaries may find threats of U.S. action in response to hostile acts affecting U.S. access to space systems to be non-credible. Fourth, while the United States has produced superlative space capabilities, it has not produced enough systems ready to survive the new kinetic, exotic, jamming, and cyber threat environment. The vulnerability exists because the spacecraft developed and deployed today are in many ways the same as those originally fielded during the Cold War. During that epic struggle, there was a tacit and then explicit understanding that each superpower would not attack and overwhelm the other’s space systems, except in the dire st of circumstances, perhaps during the throes of a nuclear conflagration. Indeed, a number of agreements between the superpowers adopted the understanding and ruled out interference with national technical means, including space assets. This belief in the superiority of space systems and power blinds the United States to the inherent strategic weaknesses and vulnerabilities in these systems. This, predictably, can now be exploited by potential adversaries, such as China, who, with their recent ASAT test, appear more willing to fully explore the technologies needed to expand the limits of conventional war to include the space domain. Consequently, by historically and diplomatically reducing the threat, engineering of some satellite threat detection, attack avoidance, and other defense subsystems have not matured enough so that they are sophisticated, nimble, and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.
Conflict over space is inevitable - reliance on space for terrestrial warfare guarantees it - 2.5 thousand years of history prove

Smith 11-[Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]

It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically from the evidence of two and a half millennia, that anything of great strategic importance to one belligerent, for that reason has to be worth attacking by others. And the greater the importance, the greater has to be the incentive to damage, disable, capture, or destroy it. In the bluntest of statements: space warfare is a certainty in the future because the use of space in war has become vital. . . . Regardless of public sentimental or environmentally shaped attitudes towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming.20 The strategic value of space to states is not in question. Advanced spacefaring states are already reliant—and moving toward dependence—on space-derived services for activities across every sector of their societies. Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.21

Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate

Wortzel, 8 – [Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science]

The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research a variety of forms of space weapons.77 These include: . satellite jamming technology; . collisions between space bodies; . kinetic energy weapons; . space-to-ground attack weapons; . space planes that can transit and fight ‘‘up or down’’ in the upper atmosphere or space; . high-power laser weapons; . high-power microwave weapon systems; . particle-beam weapons; and . electromagnetic pulse.78 PLA authors credit the U.S. with having the most advanced capabilities in the areas of kinetic energy weapons, particle beam weapons, and directed energy. The PLA does have various forms of jamming capability, and has done a lot of work on the concept of colliding space bodies. The dilemma here for the military theorists or planner in the U.S., is that this is really space science and rocket science. Although Chinese military theory, basic research, and applied research into these areas are transparent, the successes or weapons systems that may become formal programs are not transparent. Regardless of whether the algorithms are correct or not, it is clear that the PLA is serious about space warfare. The destruction of their own weather satellite and the blinding of a U.S. satellite mean they are achieving some success. PLA theorists think that internal lines of communication are most favorable for successful military operations, whether the offense, defense, or maintaining a logistics chain.79 They see internal lines as superior to the conduct of military operations on external lines.80 The Chinese see their regional position in Asia as superior to that of the U.S. because the U.S. has to fight, communicate, and re-supply along extended exterior lines, while China enjoys interior lines of communication within the range of its aircraft, missiles, and submarine fleet. This means that in a conflict, they would probably use their jamming and antisatellite systems to disrupt American lines of communication, command and control, situational awareness, and efforts at coordination at the extended ranges of military conflict for the U.S.81 One of the most disruptive things the PLA could do, therefore, would be to neutralize the U.S. ability to use tracking and data relay satellites, which provide the global, real time sensor and communications capabilities for network centric operations. The PLA believes that the U.S. is heavily dependent on its satellite systems, more dependent than the PLA. That is changing, however. As the PLA modernizes its own Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4SIR) systems, it is becoming as dependent on space and information systems as the U.S. Therefore, its policies of space control and space deterrence for military purposes are no longer forms of asymmetric warfare. Rather, the contest will be over which force can most effectively disrupt the other’s military operations. Space warfare will likely become an integral part of traditional conflict. The Implications of Attacks on Reconnaissance Satellites One problem that begs an answer is whether the PLA is considering the implications of exercising the capabilities it is developing. That is, when researchers consider a form of space warfare, or develop capabilities to be applied in space weapons, are there also PLA officers in the policy or war planning sphere thinking through the implications of employing that capability? If not, an incident could quickly escalate and get out of control, leading to an exchange of weapons or a deeper crisis. For example, four officers from the PLA’s Second Artillery Command College, in Wuhan, have published an analysis of how to jam or destroy the space-based ballistic missile advanced warning systems of the U.S.82 In their article, the officers note, ‘‘a space borne missile early warning system will play a pivotal role in future space wars.’’83 They set out the capabilities and parameters of the U.S. Defense Support Program (DSP) early warning satellites, including the geosynchronous orbits of the satellite sets, their axis of look, the infrared bands they cover, and their shortcomings. The authors discuss how to destroy the U.S. DSP satellites with other satellites, ground-based lasers, or direct ascent weapons.84 They also have a discussion of how to jam the satellites, their satellite-to-ground transmissions, or to camouflage the infrared radiation emitted by a missile to make it more difficult for the warning satellite to detect an attack.85 In their conclusion, the authors find that maintaining a strategic ballistic missile capability is a powerful deterrent to prevent the U.S. from launching a large scale military attack or intervention aimed at China’s own military operations on its southeast coast, i.e., to intervene in Chinese military operations against Taiwan.86 Their view is that ‘‘destroying and jamming space borne missile early warning systems not only can paralyze such anti-missile systems, but also will help us [the PRC] win the war in space.’’87 The PLA is also aware of the most advanced U.S. synthetic aperture radar imaging systems and are thinking through how to neutralize or jam them.88 The problem in this reasoning is that there is no consideration given to a likely American reaction to the disruption of its missile early warning systems. One possible reaction by the U.S. is that it might well think it is coming under immediate attack and launch its own strike against China’s strategic missile forces. Another reasonable reaction by U.S. forces might be to strike the source of the Chinese attack, particularly if it came from a ground based laser or direct ascent launch. Even if such a reaction by the U.S. used conventional weapons, the PLA may find it has created a deeper crisis that led to an American strike on Chinese soil. These four PLA authors do not seem to have considered the ramifications of their own research. Space Deterrence Space power theorists, like Cai, advocate the ability to control parts of space for limited periods. Huang Zhicheng, in reaction to U.S. Air Force Space Command manual AFM 2–2.1, Space Warfare and Countermeasures, develops the concept further, advocating a regime of ‘‘space deterrence’’ to counter American space superiority. 89 For Huang, this shift toward space deterrence mirrors a trend in U.S. space theory.90 Huang defines this as ‘‘the use of strong aerospace power to create or demonstrate a threat to an opponent’s space power to deter that opponent in a practical way.’’91 The goal of this concept of deterrence is to increase the PLA’s power in weapons systems, information gathering, and command and control to improve national warning systems in China, create fear in an adversary, and degrade the adversary’s power.92 The key to achieving this level of deterrence, according to Huang, is to concentrate one’s own economic, military, and science and technology power to ‘‘ruin an opponent’s economy and ability to function in space.’’93 The intention behind the December 2006 blinding of a U.S. satellite by a Chinese laser and the 11 January 2007 destruction of a Chinese weather satellite by the PLA’s own direct ascent kill vehicle is clear when interpreted through this concept of demon strating space deterrence.94 As Huang concedes, for a deterrent to be credible, one must demonstrate the capability. A deterrent must be demonstrated. It is also important to note that effective space deterrence, as conceived by this writer, includes crippling attacks on information networks and C4SIR systems. In the future, there could be other examples of space deterrence to let the U.S. and other countries know that they do not have free reign in space or over China. The PLA could demonstrate various forms of jamming. In doing so, the PLA would conduct operational tests of the work being done on jamming synthetic aperture radar satellites. Chinese journals do discuss maneuvering space bodies to intersect in orbit. This type of maneuvering lends itself to accidental collisions between space bodies. China could deny the hostile intent of such accidents, but they still would demonstrate a space deterrent capability. Conclusions There are a number of important findings to this research effort. First, in the event of conflict with the PLA, military operations carried out across all the domains of war, ground, sea, air, space, and the electromagnetic spectrum, or information- and cyber-warfare, are likely. Any military operations in space will be part of a more coordinated cyber or information attack on an enemy’s knowledge and command systems. Second, there will probably be strategic warning, even if there is operational or tactical surprise, in any future conflict between China and the U.S. Prior to direct conflict, the PLA and the Central Military Commission will likely justify any of its actions by conducting what it calls legal warfare.95 Third, the concept of legal warfare will be applied by the PRC Foreign Ministry, the security services, Chinese Communist Party liaison Department, and the PLA to exploit political divisions in the U.S. over nuclear testing and space-based weapon systems. Fourth, the PLA will seek to exercise space control in a limited area of conflict. The PLA will probably observe the internationally accepted definitions of commons in space, over 100,000 m, in peacetime. If direct conflict breaks out, altitude limits on space control are off, and any systems carrying adversary military traffic or signals are probably fair game for the PLA. U.S. Navy Secretary Donald Winter, on a visit to Australia in August 2007, said that the U.S. still wants to understand what the Chinese intention is in its military modernization.96 This concern over how China will engage in military operations in space is really about intentions. There are a number of China’s activities and policy positions coming from Beijing that make it hard to interpret Chinese intent. Among these are: China’s expansive territorial claims, combined with periodic incidents of the use of armed force to reinforce these claims;97 the justification for extending the territorial claims of China into the reaches of outer space outlined in this paper; and the shaping of the ‘‘space battlefield’’ with legal arguments that would justify China’s actions to prevent space observation over its territory. The U.S. has taken a course with China that is far different from the isolationist and confrontational approach with the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Both states are heavily involved in trade, economic, and political engagements with each other. Nonetheless, both states are wary of the potential for conflict with the other, and there exist some deep fundamental differences of national interest. Whether one is a proponent of arms control agreements or not, the dialogue between the U.S. and the Soviet Union over arms control and treaties produced a body of mutual understanding that holds up today. The U.S. and the Soviet Union seemed to realize that it is potentially destabilizing to define the upper limits of sovereignty. Thus, neither country interfered with the other’s free passage in space. Also, they agreed that the ability to conduct strategic verification from space stabilized the nuclear balance. No such dialogue has taken place with China. The PLA has either ignored or rebuffed American efforts at such a dialogue. Often, senior military or Chinese Communist Party leaders have told Americans that to engage in such a dialogue is an example of a cold war mentality.98 Yet discussions on these issues are important to clarify the rationales for America’s positions on space and serve as threat reduction measures. Although China’s intentions are not fully known, they can be inferred from Chinese actions, like the attack on a U.S. satellite with a laser and the destruction of its own weather satellite as a demonstration of capability. PRC intentions can also be inferred from judicious reviews of its military literature. By observing the military capabilities China is acquiring and reading its military literature, it is clear that China’s leaders are preparing as though they may have to fight the U.S. To this end, the PLA is busily preparing the space battlefield in advance with legal arguments, as called for in its doctrine. As a result, there are very sound reasons to prepare to defend American interests in space, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict.

The risk of crisis instability and miscalc is high – the PLA is isolated from the Chinese government
MacDonald 11 –[ Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis]

One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the result of miscalculation that ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions. Averting major power conflict requires skillful management of tensions by senior leaders of the major powers. China has become much more internationally sophisticated, though with important exceptions, in its dealings with the rest of the world than has been true in the past, and this is reflected in its civilian leadership. Unfortunately, the PLA's senior officer corps trails its civilian counterparts in this respect. They have much less interaction with foreign official and travel abroad much less frequently than their U.S. counterparts. This means that the PLA overall views world events from a less knowledgeable and sophisticated perspective, a danger in this increasingly complex world, and could explain, for example, the political "tonedeafness" of the PLA in the manner they conducted their 2007 ASAT test. This PLA problem becomes more serious when one realizes that the PLA is organizationally separate from the rest of the Chinese government, and reports only to the Central Military Commission, currently chaired by President Hu Jintao. President Hu, and his likely successors, have no significant military background, and the majority of the CMC's members are top PLA officers, suggesting that civilian oversight of major military decisions and consideration of their larger implications are not as carefully reviewed as in the U.S. government. Normally this would not be too great a concern, but in a crisis this could be dangerous. Add to this the fact that China has no equivalent of our National Security Council, a critically important body for coordinating our security decisionmaking, and one comes away concerned about the relative insularity of the PLA in the Chinese power structure. In a crisis, the PLA probably cannot be counted on to show as sophisticated a sense of judgment as one would hope any country's military leaders, even an enemy's, to show. All these problems and many more pose potential threats to internal political stability and Communist Party control, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead. Overview of The Strategic Landscape of Space Space assets, and the communications and cyber links that enable them to function, are the means by which essential national security information is either generated, transmitted, or both. This information is the lifeblood of U.S. conventional military superiority and plays a key role in U.S. strategic nuclear posture as well. As such, these space related assets represent extraordinarily appealing targets in any future conflict, and their relative vulnerability can provide dangerously attractive incentives in a crisis to preempt, escalating to war. Resisting this temptation to attack may be morally virtuous but could be strategically unwise: going first in a space conflict with a nearpeer space adversary appears to offer many advantages, while absorbing such a strike, with all its attendant destruction of military capabilities, and then responding to the attack against an opponent fully expecting such a response, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. As technology advances, the ways of interfering with, disrupting, or destroying information streams in space or supporting space systems will likely increase, as will U.S. and others' dependence upon such systems. Providing defensive options for U.S. space assets should be pursued where appropriate, but most space observers believe that offense has the advantage in space over defense, as General Cartwright observed last May. Cartwright also noted that the challenging issues that space poses has made the Space Posture Review "the most difficult of all the defense reviews" the Obama Administration has undertaken. The overall U.S. goal in space should be to shape the space domain to the advantage of the United States and its allies, and to do so in ways that are stabilizing and enhance U.S. and allied security. The United States has an overriding interest in maintaining the safety, survival, and function of its space assets so that the profound military, civilian, and commercial benefits they enable can continue to be available to the United States and its allies. This need not mean that China and others must perforce be disadvantaged by such an arrangement - there should be ample opportunity for many countries to benefit and prosper from a properly crafted system of space management. There is an inherent risk of strategic instability when relatively modest defense efforts create disproportionate danger to an adversary, as with space offense. And there is a serious risk of crisis instability in space when "going first" pays off - destroying an adversary's satellites before he destroys yours. We don't know what would happen in a crisis, but the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.

That crushes deterrence and risks miscalc and nuclear escalation

Burke 6 – [Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]

The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services; the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets. One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland or an attack that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US.44 Although a major attack on the US is not likely, the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a devastating miscalculation that the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike. The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also weakens conventional deterrence. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, the Chinese might seek to disrupt or destroy regional space capabilities as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a fait accompli.45 A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49 The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “Space capabilities are no longer nice to have, but are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars.”51 The failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets. The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52 Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives. The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces. Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability. The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55 Today, other nations are working to develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to take the lead in what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—information war. The current coverage gaps in our space surveillance network, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons without our knowledge. Finally, without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is to deter an attack on US space assets. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. A senior officer in US Strategic Command recently stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57

Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony

Marshall 8 –[ NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A
MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science]

Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’ of the current military capability of the United States (U.S.). This is for two reasons: (1) the U.S. military space systems—in particular reconnaissance, navigation, signals intelligence, early warning, and communications systems—are critical to modern military warfare and intelligence; and (2) space systems are inherently vulnerable to attack. This combination is understood at the highest levels and was espoused in the ‘‘Rumsfeld Space Commission’’ with talk of a ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor.’’1 Whether one agrees with the tone, this is a genuine security problem for the U.S. in need of a near-term solution. While there have been numerous papers, and much media and academic attention, in the space security discussion focused on promoting or criticizing space-based weapons,2 there have been far fewer papers and studies offering constructive ways forward that deal with these genuine security concerns in a broader sense.3 The central motivation for this paper is to put forward one key element—the satellite architecture—in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of U.S. space assets. It is hoped that this idea, together with others like it, should stimulate and contribute to a debate on more constructive ways forward for how to achieve space security in the post-Cold war world. Importance of Space Assets For better or worse, it is clear that the U.S. military is to some significant extent dependent on its key satellites, which number about 86–105 operational satellites at present. These satellites constitute a significant part of the eyes, ears, and central nervous system of the modern military.4 A practical example that helps to illustrate this is the case of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. First, the decision to go was based in part on satellite imagery and signals intelligence from satellites; whether or not it was interpreted or used correctly is a separate issue. Second, the planning and operation were facilitated by satellite imagery. Third, many planes, ships, tanks, and units’ positions were known through Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, and even most munitions were guided by GPS. Fourth, the operation was commanded from the U.S. in large part through the use of communications satellites. Perhaps more importantly than any of the functions in the Iraq example, early warning (EW) satellites are the U.S.’s and Russia’s first warning of nuclear missile attack. As Gray classified, space assets have moved from being ‘‘useful and important’’ to an ‘‘indispensable adjunct’’ in the military over the last decade.5 Space assets are definitely used a great deal by the U.S. military, but that does not mean necessarily as strong a dependence as Gray implies. The loss of U.S. space assets could range in its effect anywhere from a loss to the U.S. military in practical operations, to being catastrophic to U.S. security. The former would entail a reduction in operational effectiveness or speed, but fundamentally supposes that back-up systems and/or redundancy allow a near continuation of military capability. The latter scenario would entail an effective disablement of the U.S. military capability from normal operations. In reality, the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.

Heg solves conflict, trade, and cooperation

Zhang* and Shi **11-[Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and** Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]

Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

Commitment to ORS is vital to deterrence by denial

Sejba 10 – [USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “ Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]

The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,” no longer is a sanctuary outside the reach of foreign intervention. The threat to space systems and their capabilities is broad, ranging from reversible effects such as jamming or blinding, to more destructive means such as anti-satellite weapons. It is now time to take actions for the sake of space, and assure its continued contributions across the full spectrum of military operations. Given the criticality of space to not only our military power, but also our economic power, it is time we develop policies and field capabilities to deter future adversaries from attempting to degrade, deny, or destroy space capabilities and services. The asymmetric advantages enabled by space can no longer be assumed and as a result, a new National Security Strategy for space must be forged, one that combines deterrence with basic protection capabilities never before afforded our space systems. Yet, space deterrence is not an “all in” strategy, nor can it reduce the risk of attack to zero.1 Should aspects of deterrence fail, we must take steps to defend and protect our space systems and the critical global services they provide. Operationally responsive space (ORS) by definition is “assured space power focused on timely satisfaction of joint force commanders’ needs.”2 Dissected further, one key word stands out: assured … being sufficiently robust, timely, agile, adaptive, and resilient, to achieve desired outcomes with a high degree of certainty.3 So while ORS intends to provide operational and tactical support to the joint warfighter, its true value will be the assurance it provides as a credible strategic deterrent against space attacks. As a deterrent, ORS provides access to existing capabilities, or rapid deployment and employment of new capabilities, denying the benefits our adversaries may seek by attacking our space capabilities. Through timely and accurate intelligence, we can work to understand our adversaries’ intent and armed with this knowledge, we gain the opportunity to influence their decision-making calculus. Understanding intent, coupled with credible and timely ORS capabilities, can effectively deny or greatly reduce the benefits they seek by attacking the asymmetric advantages enabled by space. ORS provides a responsiveness that will allow the commander, US Strategic Command (CDR USSTRATCOM), to respond and support our combatant commands real-time and near-term requirements. To support these requirements, ORS consists of three tiers of capabilities: Tier 1, the employment of existing capabilities within minutes to hours; Tier 2, the rapid call-up, launch and deployment of tailored, ready to field capabilities within days to weeks; and finally, Tier 3, the rapid development of a new capability to meet a combatant commander’s joint urgent operational need within months to a year. The Unified Command Plan assigns CDR USSTRATCOM the responsibility for all military space. The space systems under his authority and control provide our warfighters increased speed, precision, and lethality in military operations. In 2007, during an Air Force Association speech in Los Angeles, California, General C. Robert Kehler, commander, Air Force Space Command and former deputy commander, USSTRATCOM, stated that the biggest difference between 25 years ago and today, was that “space today is embedded in combat operations.”4 ORS’ strategic deterrent value has the potential to be just as important to future combat operations. Nuclear and Traditional Deterrence Theory – Misapplication When Applied to Space For years, deterrence theory centered solely on nuclear deterrence strategies, which relied heavily on threats of punishment and unacceptable losses or mutually assured destruction. These strategies effectively deterred the use of nuclear weapons throughout the Cold War to present day. However, strategies of threatening devastating nuclear retaliation do not apply to space. In fact, a deterrence strategy that includes the threat of punishment (i.e., impose cost) should be just one, if not a limited aspect of deterrence for space. For almost half a century, nuclear deterrence strategies formed the foundation for the Cold War waged between the US and the former Soviet Union. Both superpowers relied on the threat of nuclear weapons to deter even conventional military actions, for fear of rapid escalation. In its most unlimited form, mutual assured destruction was a key deterrence strategy; a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both the attacker and the defender.5 While nuclear weapons continue to be a strategic deterrent, the same destructive thought process and strategy is not directly applicable to space.6 Today, some theorists focus and apply more punishing or destructive deterrence practices and thinking to the space domain. They view credible deterrence in space as relying upon the threat of punishment against an aggressor; going so far as to suggest that an attack against us could be countered with an attack in kind. One specific definition limits deterrence to an “attempt to persuade an adversary by threat of force (and other measures) not to pursue an undesirable course of action.”7 Another theorist states, “Deterrence can only succeed if the enemy finds the threat of punishment to be believable.”8 These approaches are less likely to deter for space, especially given our dependence upon the domain. For example, destroying an adversary’s satellite, especially one in an operational orbit, would create a large debris field, potentially hampering or denying our own ability to access space. Instead, deterrence for space can only succeed if our enemies believe we have credible means of denying the benefits they seek to gain. Space deterrence theory should focus on credible ways and means to deny an enemy the benefits they seek; impose costs on our adversaries (against their most prized assets);9 and encourage their restraint. A New Focus of Deterrence What does deterrence look like in the 21st century? The US has not yet figured that out, said Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “You need something that deters a conflict, and you need more choices than just nuclear. ~ Sandra I. Erwin, Future of War—How the Game is Changing … Our deterrence strategy no longer rests primarily on the grim premise of inflicting devastating consequences on potential foes.… ~ US National Security Strategy, 2006 In fact, the US does have new and plausible thoughts on 21st century deterrence. Authored under the leadership of General Cartwright, then commander of USSTRATCOM, and signed out in December 2006, the Deterrence Operations Joint Operating Concept (DO-JOC) is the Department of Defense’s (DoD) latest view on deterrence. This approach extends beyond traditional nuclear deterrence theory, which dates back to the heralded days of Strategic Air Command. The DO-JOC states that the purpose or objective of deterrence operations is to “convince adversaries not to take actions that threaten US vital interests by means of decisive influence over their decision-making.”10 In order to influence our adversaries’ decision-making calculus, it focuses on and integrates three key elements: Deny the benefits the adversary seeks; impose costs the adversary fears; and encourage adversary restraint (by convincing them that restraint will result in an acceptable outcome).11 Of these three elements, denying the benefit should be our focus when fielding new ORS capabilities. Deterrence today can only succeed if our adversaries find ORS credible enough to enable military operations even in a contested environment. Deny the Benefits—ORS Tier 1 and Tier 2 Examples People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space: Space shifting from enabler to key battleground. Space characterized as important because it contributes to information dominance; space now described as important in its own right….many in the PLA see space as a likely future arena for conflict. ~ Space and PRC National Security,’ Dean Cheng, China specialist, The Heritage Foundation, 8 October 2008.12 The purpose to benefit denial is to convince an adversary that their intent will not be achieved, or have little to no value. Today, our ability to field ORS capabilities is minimal at best, and unconvincing as a credible deterrent. Instead, our adversaries likely perceive great benefit in attempting to deny the US’ space capabilities. These benefits, also referred to as “vulnerabilities gaps,”13 are reasons why we must pursue ORS with an increased sense of urgency. However, for benefit denial to be viewed as a credible deterrent, the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Study states “our adversaries (must) perceive that the US will retain superior warfighting capability even after an attack.”14 The space and cyberspace domains are increasingly important to how current and future wars will be fought and won. As recently as 4 November 2009, the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) top Air Force Commander, Xu Qiliang, called the militarization of space an “historical inevitability.”15 This statement came on the heels of an historic visit to USSTRATCOM by General Xu Chihou, one of two vice chairmen of the PRC’s Central Military Commission. During this visit, General Kevin P. Chilton encouraged increased cooperation and comprehensive bilateral relationships between the two space-faring nations.16 Statements from Qiliang and actions such as the 2007 anti-satellite test highlight a growing disconnect between the PRC’s actions and stated policies, increasing concern amongst US leaders and lending credence to the need for new deterrence practices. Moving forward, to be a true deterrent, ORS must also win the race to space in both the speed and cost of fielding capability versus our adversaries’ attempts to counter, destroy, or deny them. Two examples highlight how ORS could play a credible role in deterring adverse actions against our space capabilities: (1) International cooperation and partnerships through shared space capabilities (Tier 1) and (2) the ability to rapidly augment or replace some aspect of existing on-orbit ISR assets in low Earth orbit (Tier 2). Tier 1 and Two ORS capabilities can be deployed and employed rapidly, within hours to days. The cost for Tier 1 includes implementing new concept of operations for deployed on-orbit systems, or the rapid, low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2.

Expanding ORS will deter attacks against US space assets

Putman 9 – USAF Major, operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,
DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron (Christopher, “Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event

The United States has taken some initial steps to improve its defensive capabilities. The DoD stood up the joint Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Office on May 21,2007 at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico. The ORS effort seeks to meet emerging warfighter needs with new space capabilities. Ron Sega, DoD executive agent for space, stated that efforts will focus on the "ability to launch, activate and employ low-cost military-useful satellites, provide, search capability, reconstitute and augment existing capability, while providing timely availabilities of tailor-made, unique capabilities. ,,39 Further, the DoD's Plan for Operationally Responsive Space highlighted the need to increase "situational awareness and adaptability to the threat, as well as an ability to evolve the total suite of space capabilities to address emerging threats in new ways.,,40 The Commander of United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM) detailed three efforts vital to execute the plan: rapidly develop technological and operational innovations, rapidly modify or supplement existing systems to increase capabilities, and rapidly reconstitute space systems when necessary to maintain capability.41 Initial focus on capabilities will be on ISR and communication satellites, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid launch capabilities, and command and control. 42 The ORS effort will use a three tier capability approach to meet warfighter needs. Tier-1 implements activities immediately-to-days using existing or on-orbit systems. Tier-2 utilizes field-ready systems in days-to-weeks to provide rapid exploitation, augmentation or reconstitution of space capabilities. Finally, Tier-3 solutions take months-to-one year to satisfy needs while capabilities are modified or developed and then deployed.43 The ORS implementation timeline envisions eight tactical satellite demonstrators through fiscal year 2013. As of January 2009, two demonstrators have been launched with the third delayed from a scheduled spring 2009 launch due to technical issues. The program timeline also includes tests of operational employment and integration, command and control, and launch vehicles. The ORS program office recently purchased the first three launch vehicle specifically procured for ORS with launches scheduled for 2010 and 2011. Finally, the DoD expects the "Chiliworks" facility at Kirtland Air Force Base, which will focus onTier-2 satellite fielding, to be fully operational by 2015.44 While there are other ongoing efforts within the Intelligence Community and the DoD45 , ORS provides a good starting point for implementation of recommendations within this paper. The ORS plan identifies the need for both anticipatory and reactive elements. ORS planners should focus on the Chinese threat to build capabilities to fit within the Tier-1 and Tier-2 categories. The conflict with China would have to extend past a year to make use ofTier-3 capabilities. The United States must anticipate Chinese actions and have field-ready systems ready for either preemptive or immediate reactive use. Field-ready systems would provide a credible defensive deterrent against existing and likely Chinese offensive anti-satellite actions. PROPOSED DEFENSIVE ACTIONS The United States can choose from a wide variety of options to develop a defensive strategy to counter the Chinese threat to LEO satellites. The comprehensive approach should address space situational awareness (SSA), preplanned satellite actions, launch capability, small satellites, decreased dependence on space systems, nuclear explosion protection, institutional changes, transparency, and engagement. Space Situational Awareness Improving SSA is essential to the success of this strategy. The United States must have a comprehensive knowledge of all objects in orbit. Although the United States maintains a significant Space Surveillance Network (SSN) network, it lacks coverage in key areas and the capability to comprehensively predict the orbits of all objects in space; the February 10, 2009 collision between an Iridium commercial satellite and a Russian military satellite caught the SSN by surprise.46 The United States could build more fixed ground sites, but this would be limited by host country permissions and fiscal constraints. As a near term improvement to coverage, the United States should leverage the US Navy's AEGIS cruiser and destroyer-based radars into its SSN. The AEGIS radar highlighted its space surveillance capability when it tracked a decaying US satellite, enabling its destruction by a US anti-satellite weapon in 2008.47 While the Navy assets need to train and execute their primary mission, they could be given alternate tasking to search and track objects in LEO. This would entail development of procedures between services. Further, integration of land and space-based missile warning sensors into the SSN would yield benefits in the event of an anti-satellite launch. Finally, the United States should continue to pursue satellite as a sensor technology, where the satellite has the ability to self-identify and report on attacks. Improved SSA also allows the United States to characterize the resultant debris field of an anti-satellite attack and thus support reactive measures that may be required by other satellites. Intelligence Directly related to improved SSA is a robust intelligence effort that focuses on Chinese anti-satellite activity. Indications and warning may include increased communication at tracking stations, deployment of mobile tracking stations, and fueling and dispersal of launch vehicles. Identification and reporting of Chinese anti-satellite preparations would enable execution of preemptive defensive actions by the United States. Preplanned Satellite Actions Establishing preplanned actions is key to deterring and reacting to an anti-satellite attack. While the time from launch to impact for the SC-19 is on the order of minutes, intelligence of an impending launch can lengthen the timeline for taking preemptive defensive actions. While limited on-board fuel prevents large orbital maneuvers, a one-time small change to a satellite's orbit is possible. These orbital maneuvers must be executed before the launch of the anti-satellite weapon. Changes in orbit will produce a discrepancy between the anticipated satellite location and the final satellite tracking just prior to launch. The inconsistency may cause the Chinese to doubt the quality of their data and delay the launch as they develop new orbital tracking data, thus opening a window for additional US actions to prevent a launch. However, if the Chinese did decide to launch without updating their data, the slight change in orbit may cause the antisatellite weapon to miss. These same procedures would also be effective against ground-based anti-satellite weapons; a maneuver could lead to a laser missing the target. Having preplanned actions ready to execute provides United States planners another option. If a conflict looks to be inevitable, they could decide to rapidly execute minor maneuvers across satellite constellations. While not only complicating the Chinese targeting process, this could serve as non-destructive shot across the bow. If the conflict escalates into a conventional war, the single maneuver may buy the United States enough time to execute a kinetic strike that would dismantle the Chinese anti-satellite program. The importance of these strikes would move the priority high on the targeting list. Here again, intelligence is a key enabler. Targets must be accurately located, vetted, and updated to enable quick strikes on the anti-satellite targets. Variable and Rapid Launch Capability The current United States Department of Defense launch complex does not have the capability to rapidly replenish satellites in the event of destruction. Launch preparation and execution can take weeks to months. The United States must adopt rapid and flexible commercial launch technologies. Of at least equal importance to having a rapid launch capability is a launch system that deploys satellites from varying locations. When launched from the traditional space ports of Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg Air Force Base, China can easily monitor the launch and quickly determine the initial orbit and possibly satellite type. Having a capability that can unpredictably launch from unmonitored locations will delay China's ability to track and identify United States satellites, greatly inhibiting their ability to target satellites. This capability could be sea-based, where monitoring by an adversary is more difficult. The capability could also be airborne, like the Pegasus program which has successfully launched satellites using an L-I0ll aircraft from California, Virginia, Florida, the Canary Islands, and the Marshall Islands. 48 Small Satellites The United States must also make a move towards smaller satellites that use a common bus and architecture. A single launch vehicle could then deploy multiple small satellites, allowing the rapid establishment of a new constellation at the beginning of a conflict or replenishment of an old one. China would then face a dilemma as to which satellites they would attack. If China does decide to attack, the impact would be proportionately smaller because they would take out a lesser percentage of the constellation. The Iridium collision demonstrated the ability of a large constellation to absorb the loss of single satellite with minimal degradation. 49 Having numerous small satellites ready to launch can also lesson the need to perform defensive orbital maneuvers, as they can be quickly replenished. Finally, small satellites are inherently harder to track whether by radar or optical telescopes. While a requirement for large satellites remains; small satellites will help protect and complement the large satellites. Key to developing small satellites is a common command and control (C2) network regardless of function, rather than today's stovepiped C2 that are unique for each satellite type. A common bus and C2 system can also support small satellites by relying on a cross-linked network to control satellites and download mission data from a central location rather than on ground stations distributed around the globe. Decreased Dependence on Space Systems The United States must decrease its dependence on space systems, making attack on satellites a less appealing target. United States military forces should have weapons and procedures that can function with or without satellite support. For example, high altitude unmanned aerial vehicles can and should complement, and potentially replace, the LEO satellite ISR mission. Countering High-altitude Nuclear Explosions Although the possibility of a HANE may be remote, defense against the long term radiation effects must focus on hardening all future satellites against nuclear explosions. Without hardening, depending on the size of the constellation, satellite replenishment could take months and quickly exhaust satellite spares even with rapid reaction launch capabilities. Building satellites to withstand the nuclear weapon radiation effects beyond that required against the natural environment would add only 2 to 3 percent to total satellite cost.50 Consideration may be given to forgoing hardening for satellites designed for a short (days to weeks) lifetime; one should consider the radiation from a nuclear explosion may remain for up to two years, precluding the launch of non-hardened satellites into the affected orbital regime. 51 While some government low-earth orbit satellites are already hardened, the United States should harden all future satellites. Institutional Changes Changes must be properly incorporated into the DoD infrastructure to be effective. All aspects of doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities must be examined. Additionally, the changes must work across many organizations within the DoD and throughout the United States government. For example, STRATCOM should run comprehensive anti-satellite exercises that incorporate all applicable services and agencies, from the satellite operator to the end user. Transparency The above actions may deter China from further pursuing its anti-satellite programs, but only if executed in a transparent manner. Systems must be fully trained and tested; the United States must overtly demonstrate its capability to rapidly deploy satellites. China must be made fully aware of US capabilities to effectively counter its anti-satellite weapons. China may then realize that its actions will have minimal effect on US military capabilities. Engagement Beyond using a military response to protect government satellites, the United States should consider a holistic approach to China's anti-satellite capabilities by using the other elements of national power: diplomatic, information, and economic. China's current reliance on space is minimal when compared to the United States. China can therefore afford to use antisatellite weapons against the United States. Increased Chinese reliance on space would provide significant deterrents to Chinese use ofcertain weapons such as direct ascent, co-orbital, and nuclear, since collateral damage from these weapons would affect China. First, the United States should engage on Chinese proposed treaties limiting space weapons. Next, the United States should work to build Chinese economic dependence on space systems, while taking appropriate measures to limit technology transfer. With a gap between the Space Shuttle and Ares launch vehicles, an opportunity exists to bring China in as a partner on the International Space Station by providing equipment launch services. Working with China to build its reliance on and participation in space activities will help build deterrence to the use of anti-satellite weapons; the collateral effects would harm its own interests. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS While this paper focuses on LEO satellites, the same rigor must also be applied to medium Earth orbit (MEO), highly elliptical orbit (REO), and geosynchronous (GEO) orbit satellites. Although current direct ascent anti-satellite capability can only reach LEO, China's ballistic• missile and space launch vehicles could reach higher orbits. Additionally, China has orbited GEO satellites which could already be carrying co-orbital anti-satellite weapons. China has expressed interest in combating the MEO GPS system through both kinetic and non-kinetic attacks.52 China is also actively developing jamming capabilities to combat United States military communications satellites found predominately in GEO. Additionally, the proposed defensive measures will do more than support deterrence against China. Numerous nations will seek to emulate Chinese actions with kinetic and nonkinetic options. In response to the recent anti-satellite activity of China and the United States, Russia announced the resumption of its anti-satellite weapons program.53 Ground-based actions such as jamming are within the realm of many nations and individuals. One only need look at the hijacking of the HBO satellite signal by "Capt Midnight" as an example of a single individual being able to steal a satellite transponder, in effect jamming the intended signal. 54 Further, proliferation of nuclear weapon and ballistic missile technology make the use of a HANE attractive to a rogue nation or terrorist nation that has little reliance on space capabilities. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency suggests this scenario as a possible last act of defiance by North Korean forces facing defeat,55 Lastly, these measures can be used to combat natural phenomena, such as a meteor shower or solar storms that can damage satellite systems. “A strategy that ensures access to and use of space is useful in times of peace just as in times of war, since space systems that provide critical services may fail or become inoperative in the absence of hostile action.”56 Finally, the United States must not stop at applying these recommendations merely to military satellites. While government satellites are critical in a conflict, commercial satellites in all orbital regimes have become an integral part of military operations to include weather, imaging, and communications. Although tightly tied to the world economy, China could decide to expand its anti-satellite program to attack the economic interests of the United States. While commercial satellites companies typically incorporate protective measures against natural threats, the United States government should share best practices and provide incentives to commercial entities to protect themselves against human threats. The government could do this through requirements to obtain licensing or guaranteed govemment contracts to companies that comply. CONCLUSION The fundamental U.S. security interest in the wake of China's 2007 anti-satellite test should be deterring China and others from attacking U.S. assets in space, using both a combination of declaratory policy, military programs, and diplomacy, and promoting a more stable and secure space environment.57 Council on Foreign Relations The United States government requires a comprehensive plan to counter the threat to its LEO systems posed by Chinese anti-satellite weapons. Failing to protect these key satellites would severely degrade US military capabilities in a conflict with China. The United States should rely on a defensive space strategy to deter Chinese anti-satellite actions. The strategy must include robust space situational awareness, preplanned actions, small satellites, rapid and variable launch capability, decreased dependence on space systems and institutional changes. In total, these actions would complicate the ability for Chinese anti-satellite weapons to easily strike US assets while providing the means to operate through an attack and then reconstitute lost capability. The DoD's ORS effort can be used as springboard, but must be accelerated to meet the rapidly emerging threat. Finally, its growth as a space faring nation may eventually be the best deterrence against a Chinese attack on United States satellites. However, the actions outlined in this paper can also be used to counter threats from other nations or natural phenomena. A rapid comprehensive defensive deterrence approach most effectively counters the Chinese threat and meets Presidential guidance to establish “contingency plans to ensure that U.S. forces can maintain or duplicate access to information from space assets and accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58

===Solar Storms=== 
Contention Three is Solar Storms –
They’ll hit Earth in 2013 – no precise predictions
Wall 9/13 –[Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 'Old Faithful' Sunspot to Fire Off More Solar Flares, Scientists Say,http://www.space.com/12921-sun-solar-flares-faithful-sunspot.html]

An active region of the sun that blasted out powerful solar storms four days in a row last week likely isn't done yet, scientists say. Officially, the flare-spouting region is called sunspot 1283. But space weather experts have dubbed it "Old Faithful," after the famous geyser in the United States' Yellowstone National Park that goes off like clockwork. And the solar Old Faithful should erupt again before it dissipates, researchers said. "It still has a fair amount of complexity," said solar physicist C. Alex Young of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. "So we still have a pretty good chance of seeing some more stuff from this one." An active sunspot Sunspots are temporary dark patches on the solar surface caused by intense magnetic activity. Some last for hours before disappearing; others linger for days, weeks or even months. Powerful solar storms often erupt from sunspots. These include radiation-flinging solar flares and phenomena known as coronal mass ejections (CMEs) — massive clouds of solar plasma that can streak through space at up to 3 million mph (5 million kph). From Sept. 5-8, sunspot 1283 produced four big flares and three CMEs. Two of the flares were X-class events and two were M-class flares. (Strong solar flares are classified according to a three-tiered system: X-class are the most powerful, M-class are of medium strength and C-class are the weakest.) While the rapid motion previously observed in sunspot 1283 seems to have died down a bit, Young said, the sunspot looks poised to erupt again sometime soon. "There's a good probability that we're still going to see at least another M-class flare, possibly another X-class flare," Young told SPACE.com. It's not uncommon for sunspots to pop off a number of powerful flares in quick succession the way 1283 has done, he added. That seems to be the natural order of things. "When you see one big flare, your chances of seeing another one are pretty good," Young said. A photo of a sunspot taken in May 2010, with Earth shown to scale. The image has been colorized for aesthetic reasons. This image with 0.1 arcsecond resolution from the Swedish 1-m Solar Telescope represents the limit of what is currently possible in terms of spatial resolution. CREDIT: The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, V.M.J. Henriques (sunspot), NASA Apollo 17 (Earth) View full size imageLearning more about solar storms Solar flares directed at Earth can cause temporary radio-communication blackouts. CMEs have even greater destructive potential; they can spawn geomagnetic storms that disrupt GPS signals, radio communications and power grids. [Sun's Wrath: Worst Solar Storms in History] So researchers are working hard to better understand sun storms, with the aim of one day being able to predict them with a great deal of accuracy and a long lead time. But they're not there yet. "We still have a long way to go to really have the kind of forecasting capabilities that we have with terrestrial weather," Young said. That's not to say scientists aren't making progress. Indeed, they've learned a lot about solar eruptions lately, Young said. And the knowledge base will continue to grow, he added, as a fleet of sun-watching spacecraft beam home more and more observations of Earth's star. "We're really in a great time right now in terms of the data that we have," Young said, citing the contributions of spacecraft such as NASA's STEREO and Solar Dynamics Observatory, as well as SOHO, a collaboration between NASA and the European Space Agency. "It's going to be pretty exciting, from a solar physics and a space weather point of view." All of these eyes on the sun should be treated to quite a show over the next several years. Solar activity has been ramping up over the last few months as the sun works toward a maximum in its 11-year activity cycle. Scientists expect the peak of the current cycle, which is known as Solar Cycle 24, to come in 2013.
We win uniqueness – storms at their peak

Lovett 11 –[Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]

On February 14 the sun erupted with the largest solar flare seen in four years—big enough to interfere with radio communications and GPS signals for airplanes on long-distance flights. As solar storms go, the Valentine's Day flare was actually modest. But the burst of activity is only the start of the upcoming solar maximum, due to peak in the next couple of years."The sun has an activity cycle, much like hurricane season," Tom Bogdan, director of the Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colorado, said earlier this month at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C."It's been hibernating for four or five years, not doing much of anything." Now the sun is waking up, and even though the upcoming solar maximum may see a record low in the overall amount of activity, the individual events could be very powerful. In fact, the biggest solar storm on record happened in 1859, during a solar maximum about the same size as the one we're entering, according to NASA. That storm has been dubbed the Carrington Event, after British astronomer Richard Carrington, who witnessed the megaflare and was the first to realize the link between activity on the sun and geomagnetic disturbances on Earth.

The probability is 100%

Sternstein 10-[ staff correspondent at Nextgov, 2010 (Aliya, “Agencies rush to replace aging satellite to predict damaging solar storms,” Nextgov, part of the National Journal Group Inc. and the Atlantic Media Company, August 9, http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20100809_7393.php)
Every 11 years…not that great."]

Every 11 years, solar activity intensifies, and the next peak in activity is scheduled for 2013. The most significant storm on record hit in 1859, illuminating the night sky in light and shorting telegraph systems worldwide. Sparks shocked operators and set paper aflame. Today, space weather of that magnitude would be a significant problem for spacecraft, astronauts and planes flying in high altitudes because they would encounter radiation from solar material. Such conditions also would interfere with modern high-frequency radio communications and GPS navigation. The nation has become increasingly dependent on communications and location-based technologies, including smart phones, electronic financial transactions and power grids, so the impact would be far greater than it was in 1859, federal officials said. "The whole thing about going into another active period of solar activity is: It's going to happen. We just don't know when, we don't know the severity of it, but we know it has happened," FEMA Administrator W. Craig Fugate said in June at the U.S. government's annual space weather conference, which focused on critical infrastructure protection. "This isn't just a hypothetical what-if. We actually know. We have seen these events occur before, so this isn't something that we've got to go convince people that this might happen. It has happened. We're just fortunate that the frequency is not that great.
Huge solar flares knock out U.S communication and GPS satellites
Marusek 07-[nuclear physicist and engineer, 2007 (James A., “Solar Storm Threat Analysis,” Impact, http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf]

In the past, solar storms have caused billions of dollars of commercial satellites to malfunction and die prematurely. A Great solar storm has the power to destroy many space assets (Space Station, Space Shuttle, LEO Satellites, GEO Satellites, Off World Missions) simultaneously. In our technology driven society, satellites play an important role in communications. The loss of satellites can affect: major news wire service feeds, network television, satellite television and cable programming, nationwide radio service, weather data, cell phone service, pagers, automated teller machines, gas station credit card handling services, airline weather tracking services, earthquake monitoring network, blackberries, GPS navigation service, and critical military & airline communications. And this list grows longer every day. Current commercial satellites are light-weight, sophisticated, built at the lowest cost using off-the-shelf electronics. 3 This current low cost approach makes new satellite design more vulnerable to damage from solar storms due to less radiation hardening. A high-energy particle from an SPE can penetrate the wall of a satellite and deposit sufficient charge to cause an electrical upset to a circuit switch, false command, memory state change or loss. 1 As the nuclear particles collide within the spacecraft, they release electrons that build up an internal dielectric charge. This static charge can destroy circuitry on electronic boards. The particles can also change data and instructions stored in computer memory. Only deaths with “day, month and year” listed were used in this analysis.Impact, 2007 James A. Marusek 21 Some of the memory damage is soft causing Single Event Upset (SEU). Generally, this anomaly can be corrected by a computer reboot. But some of the damage can be hard causing unrepairable physical damage to the junction of the microcircuit. These types of failures can be fatal.


Space assets are key to the economy

Johnson & Hudson 8 – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination

Commercially, the economy of the United States is heavily dependent on space assets in virtually every industry. Communications, Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, agriculture, weather monitoring, and shipment tracking in the manufacturing sector are all indispensable to workings of the market.7, 8 With international economies interwoven across borders and cultures, damage to a critical satellite might pose serious monetary repercussions throughout multiple countries. For example, nearly a decade ago the failure of the Galaxy IV satellite rendered certain communications useless for two days. “The failure of that one satellite left about 80 (to) 90 percent of the 45 million pager customers in the United States without service…and 5400 of 7700 Chevron gas stations without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9

Economic collapse invites multiple scenarios for nuclear war and aggression

Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 –[[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, ]http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]

Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture. For decades now, Americans have enjoyed the advantages of being at the center of that system. The worldwide use of the dollar, and the stability of our economy, among other things, made it easier for us to run huge budget deficits, as we counted on foreigners to pick up the tab by buying dollar-denominated assets as a safe haven. Will this be possible in the future? Meanwhile, traditional foreign-policy challenges are multiplying. The threat from al Qaeda and Islamic terrorist affiliates has not been extinguished. Iran and North Korea are continuing on their bellicose paths, while Pakistan and Afghanistan are progressing smartly down the road to chaos. Russia's new militancy and China's seemingly relentless rise also give cause for concern. If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave a dangerous power vacuum. The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.

Growth solves racism
Business Week 11-06-1995 ln
Everyone agrees that it would be a calamity if African Americans’ economic progress of the past half-century ground to a halt. These days, economists are focusing on ways to improve public schools, revitalize neighborhoods, and open up employment for poor and working-class Americans, black and white. What Washington policymakers have to consider is that no reform can work without strong economic growth. Robust growth raises income of both whites and blacks. More important, it attacks the pinched economic conditions that allow racism to flourish.

Poor economic conditions  racism
Progressive ’92 (January, p. 7)
That racist and anti-Semitic appeals are more popular during times of economic decline is nothing new; Such demagoguery is an old and dishonorable tradition in Europe as well as in America. When people are desperate, they will seek out any politician offering a scapegoat.

Rejecting racism comes first
Albert Memmi, Professor Emeritus of Sociology at University of Paris, 2K (“Racism” p. 163-164)

The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission, probably never achieved. Yet, for this vey reason, it is a struggle to be undertaken without surcease and without concessions. One cannot be indulgent toward racism; one must not even let the monster in the house, especially not in a mask. To give it merely a foothold means to augment the bestial part in us and in other people, which is to diminish what is human. To accept the racist universe to the slightest degree is to endorse fear, injustice, and violence. It is to accept the persistence of the dark history in which we still largely live. It is to agree that the outsider will always be a possible victim (and which man is not himself an outsider relative to someone else?) Racism illustrates, in sum, the inevitable negativity of the condition of the dominated, that is, it illuminates in a certain sense the entire human condition. The anti-racist struggle, difficult though it is, and always in question, is nevertheless one of the prologues to the ultimate passage from animality to humanity. In that sense, we cannot fail to rise to the racist challenge.

Redundancy and Reconstitution is key to protect satellite systems

CBS 9-28-11-[September 28, 2011 1:06 PM PRINT TEXT -“Satellites threatened by sun "superstorms" By Charles Q. Choi http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/28/scitech/main20112845.shtml]jt

(Space.com) Magnetic storms set off by the sun could pose a bigger threat than thought to weather, communication, military and other satellites close to Earth, with a potentially devastating economic impact, scientists suggest. In the new study, researchers found that solar radiation can energize a belt of high-energy particles that surrounds Earth more dramatically than previously believed. The study focused on the possible effects of a particularly strong magnetic storm on the Van Allen radiation belts, the dangerous rings of high-energy particles that girdle the Earth. The belts are split into two distinct zones. The outer belt, which is made up of electrons, reaches from about 15,800 to 31,600 miles (25,500 to 51,000 kilometers) above the surface, while the inner belt, which consists of a mix of electrons and protons, reaches from about 4,000 to 8,000 miles (6,400 to 12,800 km) above. Scientists had known the outer belt could become far more intense during geomagnetic storms caused by high-energy particles spewed by the sun, such as the storm that supercharged Earth's northern lights display Monday night (Sept. 26). However, they have long thought such storms do not affect the inner belt. Now computer simulations suggest that during a "superstorm" -- which has occurred in the past and is likely to recur in the future ? the electrons in the inner belt, too, could become energized. Near-Earth radiation could then remain dramatically more intense for several years afterward. "The increase in radiation in the inner zone may last for up to a decade and continue damaging satellites for years after a very strong storm," study lead author Yuri Shprits, a space physicist at the University of California, Los Angeles, told SPACE.com. This radiation would damage satellites in that zone and potentially cut their lifetimes by five-sixths or more. [Related: Space Radiation to Rise for Astronauts, Airline Passengers] "It would not destroy all satellites at once," Shprits said. "However, at least according to our calculations, a very strong storm can increase the radiation dose in the inner zone by a factor of 10, and within a few years we may lose a significant portion of the satellites that traverse the inner zone." In terms of new strategies that might be needed to protect satellite systems, "it's hard to say," Shprits said. "First of all, we need to estimate risks and estimate cost. If cost is too high, we may want to accept the risks and start getting ready to replenish the fleet in the case of such event." "There are a number of rather expensive strategies that can be used to mitigate the risk, including redundancy in electronics and increased shielding," he added. "Zero risk means infinite cost." Two missions to study the radiation belts are planned for 2012, Shprits noted: NASA's Radiation Belt Storm Probe will observe radiation belts in the equatorial plane, while Moscow State University's LOMONOSOV mission, with UCLA-built instruments on board, will observe radiation belts at low altitudes. The scientists detailed their findings online in the Aug. 25 issue of the journal Space Weather.

==2AC - Politics (SKFTA)== 


(_) Won’t pass

Bennett 9/15- [David, Delta Farm Press - highlights the region's major crops plus legislative, environmental and regulatory issues. “Trio of Pending FTAs Likely to Pass Now?” 9/15/11 http://cornandsoybeandigest.com/issues/trio-pending-ftas-likely-pass-now //NGopaul]

Legislators in the House approved the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program, which allows the import of goods from over 120 countries without tariffs. Free trade agreement (FTA) advocates hope the vote will grease the skids for passage of pending deals with Colombia, South Korea and Panama. That may be wishful thinking. Facing the expectation that the FTAs will lead to the loss of U.S. jobs, Democrats are unlikely to vote for the FTAs without funding of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. Republicans have balked at the expense of extending the TAA, which would retrain those who lose their jobs due to the FTAs.


(_) ORS popular—congressional support and aerospace lobbies
DiMascio 07- Defense and Congressional writer for Politico (Jen, August 20, 2007, Space & Missile Defense Report, “Lawmakers Support Operationally Responsive Space As It Hits Hurdles” Lexis, Ajones)

The Pentagon's new office to rapidly produce space capabilities for commanders has so far received support from Capitol Hill, but the fledgling program faces a number of obstacles as it moves forward. Col. Kevin McLaughlin, the director of the recently formed Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) office, gave a nuts and bolts presentation at a meeting of the group's executive committee. The office will need more funding and better organization, but a strategic framework could help overcome those hurdles in the future, according to McLaughlin's briefing. Air Force Space Command Commander Gen. Kevin Chilton, in line to become the next Strategic Command commander, also gave a briefing at the meeting, in which Chilton recommended that the Air Force assume control over ORS, sources said. That message that left some befuddled about the organization's way forward, sources said. According to one official present at the meeting, if Congress had wanted the Air Force to make operationally responsive satellites, it would have asked the Air Force to do so. Air Force Space Command responded to discussion about Chilton's briefing in a statement saying it supports the ORS program as it was laid out in the fiscal year 2007 Defense Authorization Act. "We are supporting the leadership of the [Department of Defense (DOD)] executive agent for space and the commander of US STRATCOM in working to make ORS a success." Chilton's briefing pointed to a potential sore point for ORS similar to a smoldering debate over who will control the military's unmanned aerial vehicles, the official said. In the case of future satellites, other services are concerned that if the Air Force assumes control of the program, design tradeoffs will come first from items sought by the Army and Navy. Another tension within ORS is whether to place investments in large existing satellite programs, or pursue smaller, lighter and cheaper new satellite systems. The Aerospace Industries Association of America has an ORS working group with members who work for companies producing both kinds of satellites. As such the group advocates continuing to balance investment between both types and maintain consistent funding for the effort, according to J.P. Stevens, vice president of the space systems division at the Aerospace Industries Association of America. The ORS office received strong support from Congress so far this year, but current language addresses the issue of the program's internal balance. Each bill recommends additional funding for the effort but for slightly different purposes. The House appropriations bill adds $20 million, but $6 million of that should be used for classified efforts, according to the committee's report on the bill. The House authorization bill reflects a concern that the Pentagon has not balanced the funding for low-cost payloads, spacelift and launch control capabilities and put the bulk of its money in existing launch vehicle purchases, responsive launch vehicle development, responsive payload and bus development, and responsive launch control capabilities, according to a report on the bill. The bill recommends rebalancing ORS funding to develop more responsive capabilities. House authorizers also added $30 million for launch and payload design and testing. The Senate Armed Services Committee added $15 million to the program, noting that ORS should pay more attention to sensor development. The Senate Appropriations defense subcommittee has yet to mark up its version of the bill, and industry officials said they are eager to learn how ORS fares. Though challenges with ORS remain, support from Congress is encouraging to Stevens, who said several years ago people questioned whether the effort should move forward at all.

(_) Congress supports ORS

Best Jr. 11 (Richard, Specialist in National Defense, “Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Acquisition: Issues for Congress,” CRS Report for Congress, January 20, 2011, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/intel/R41284.pdf, YS)

Other observers maintain, however, that new systems could be built from the bottom up using available technologies including those used in the commercial sector and that ORS could provide a useful capability for commanders whose requirements will always be subject to adjustment or derogation when collection priorities of national systems are established and implemented. ORS provides a just-in-time capability that can be tailored for missions of limited duration. The ORS concept has gained support in the Defense Department and Congress has funded the ORS in defense authorization and appropriations legislation, albeit not to the extent envisioned by the Air Force. For FY2010 the Administration requested $112.9 million, an increase over the FY2009 appropriations level of $83.7 million, but over $100 million that was originally envisioned by ORS planners was included in an Air Force list of unfunded priorities. The conference report reflected an agreement to provide only the $112 million requested, but not to provide the additional funds. However, Defense officials believed that further ORS satellites will be approved if the first one can be built “within the kinds of very aggressive parameters that we’ve set up.” As the Administration requested only $93 million for the ORS program for FY2011, some observers suggest that the limited funds may ultimately jeopardize the program. Nevertheless, support for ORS remains strong in both chambers; the House version of the FY2011 defense authorization bill (H.R. 5136) would add an additional $40 million to the Administration request and the Senate Armed Services Committee in its bill (S. 3454) would add an additional $20 million. The ORS satellite currently planned for launch at the end of 2010 is intended to meet specific needs of Central Command.

(_) The executive branch and congress support ORS

AIA 08 (Aerospace Industries Association, “Promote national policies and programs to enable Operationally Responsive Space Capabilities for U.S. War fighters”, 7/30, http://www.aia-dev.org/assets/07space_issue_ors.pdf, JK)

Policymakers in the executive branch and the Congress strongly support the aggressive development of ORS capabilities. However, progress in achieving a three-tiered strategy is slow and not adequately funded if this nation is going to have nearterm capability to augment or replenish systems.

(_) Winners win – even unpopular legislation increases polcap
Singer, 9 – Juris Doctorate candidate at Berkeley Law (Jonathon, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital,” 3/3/2009, http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428)

Despite the country's struggling economy and vocal opposition to some of his policies, President Obama's favorability rating is at an all-time high. Two-thirds feel hopeful about his leadership and six in 10 approve of the job he's doing in the White House. "What is amazing here is how much political capital Obama has spent in the first six weeks," said Democratic pollster Peter D. Hart, who conducted this survey with Republican pollster Bill McInturff. "And against that, he stands at the end of this six weeks with as much or more capital in the bank." Peter Hart gets at a key point. Some believe that political capital is finite, that it can be used up. To an extent that's true. But it's important to note, too, that political capital can be regenerated -- and, specifically, that when a President expends a great deal of capital on a measure that was difficult to enact and then succeeds, he can build up more capital. Indeed, that appears to be what is happening with Barack Obama, who went to the mat to pass the stimulus package out of the gate, got it passed despite near-unanimous opposition of the Republicans on Capitol Hill, and is being rewarded by the American public as a result. Take a look at the numbers. President Obama now has a 68 percent favorable rating in the NBC-WSJ poll, his highest ever showing in the survey. Nearly half of those surveyed (47 percent) view him very positively. Obama's Democratic Party earns a respectable 49 percent favorable rating. The Republican Party, however, is in the toilet, with its worst ever showing in the history of the NBC-WSJ poll, 26 percent favorable. On the question of blame for the partisanship in Washington, 56 percent place the onus on the Bush administration and another 41 percent place it on Congressional Republicans. Yet just 24 percent blame Congressional Democrats, and a mere 11 percent blame the Obama administration. So at this point, with President Obama seemingly benefiting from his ambitious actions and the Republicans sinking further and further as a result of their knee-jerked opposition to that agenda, there appears to be no reason not to push forward on anything from universal healthcare to energy reform to ending the war in Iraq.

(_) No Internal Link – issues are compartmentalized- presidents rarely influence legislation
Dickinson 9- professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/)

As for Sotomayor, from here the path toward almost certain confirmation goes as follows: the Senate Judiciary Committee is slated to hold hearings sometime this summer (this involves both written depositions and of course open hearings), which should lead to formal Senate approval before Congress adjourns for its summer recess in early August. So Sotomayor will likely take her seat in time for the start of the new Court session on October 5. (I talk briefly about the likely politics of the nomination process below). What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals about the basis of presidential power. Political scientists, like baseball writers evaluating hitters, have devised numerous means of measuring a president’s influence in Congress. I will devote a separate post to discussing these, but in brief, they often center on the creation of legislative “box scores” designed to measure how many times a president’s preferred piece of legislation, or nominee to the executive branch or the courts, is approved by Congress. That is, how many pieces of legislation that the president supports actually pass Congress? How often do members of Congress vote with the president’s preferences? How often is a president’s policy position supported by roll call outcomes? These measures, however, are a misleading gauge of presidential power – they are a better indicator of congressional power. This is because how members of Congress vote on a nominee or legislative item is rarely influenced by anything a president does. Although journalists (and political scientists) often focus on the legislative “endgame” to gauge presidential influence – will the President swing enough votes to get his preferred legislation enacted? – this mistakes an outcome with actual evidence of presidential influence Once we control for other factors–a member of Congress’ ideological and partisan leanings, the political leanings of her constituency, whether she’s up for reelection or not – we can usually predict how she will vote without needing to know much of anything about what the president wants. (I am ignoring the importance of a president’s veto power for the moment.) Despite the much publicized and celebrated instances of presidential arm-twisting during the legislative endgame, then, most legislative outcomes don’t depend on presidential lobbying. But this is not to say that presidents lack influence. Instead, the primary means by which presidents influence what Congress does is through their ability to determine the alternatives from which Congress must choose. That is, presidential power is largely an exercise in agenda-setting – not arm-twisting. And we see this in the Sotomayer nomination. Barring a major scandal, she will almost certainly be confirmed to the Supreme Court whether Obama spends the confirmation hearings calling every Senator or instead spends the next few weeks ignoring the Senate debate in order to play Halo III on his Xbox. That is, how senators decide to vote on Sotomayor will have almost nothing to do with Obama’s lobbying from here on in (or lack thereof). His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee. If we want to measure Obama’s “power”, then, we need to know what his real preference was and why he chose Sotomayor. My guess – and it is only a guess – is that after conferring with leading Democrats and Republicans, he recognized the overriding practical political advantages accruing from choosing an Hispanic woman, with left-leaning credentials. We cannot know if this would have been his ideal choice based on judicial philosophy alone, but presidents are never free to act on their ideal preferences. Politics is the art of the possible. Whether Sotomayer is his first choice or not, however, her nomination is a reminder that the power of the presidency often resides in the president’s ability to dictate the alternatives from which Congress (or in this case the Senate) must choose. Although Republicans will undoubtedly attack Sotomayor for her judicial “activism” (citing in particular her decisions regarding promotion and affirmative action), her comments regarding the importance of gender and ethnicity in influencing her decisions, and her views regarding whether appellate courts “make” policy, they run the risk of alienating Hispanic voters – an increasingly influential voting bloc (to the extent that one can view Hispanics as a voting bloc!) I find it very hard to believe she will not be easily confirmed. In structuring the alternative before the Senate in this manner, then, Obama reveals an important aspect of presidential power that cannot be measured through legislative boxscores.
=Negative= 
**<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Neg cites - Naima - naima.dreckerwaxman@gmail.com</span>**
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**2NRs**</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'arial',sans-serif;">**Yale**</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 vs McDowell KS (sps)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">2nr: SKFTA, privatization CP, case (just solvency)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 4 vs Nashua BR (space elevator)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">2nr: weaponization DA, Case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Round 5 vs Lexington KP (sps)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">2nr: weaponization DA, Case</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'arial',sans-serif;">**Glenbrooks**</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Round 1 vs Little Rock Central PH (SPS)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">2nr: Schmitt K and on case (just warming)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Round 3 vs Cherry Creek FL (SPS)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">2nr: China bashing, Case, and framework</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">Round 6 vs Bishop Guertin DI (UFO taboo)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block;">2nr: T and democracy turn</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Newark East Side MHL</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 vs American History (Light pollution)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc: T-substantial, T-beyond, china bashing, case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: T-beyond</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 4 vs University (SPS)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc: space weaponization, china bashing, schmitt K, agriculture turn (on warming), case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: Schmitt turn, agriculture turn, china bashing, case</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ridge</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 2 vs Lexington KF (SPS)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc: Scmitt K, payroll tax cuts, asteroids DA, sapce weaponization, aspec, heg -> econ decline (on aerospace), case </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: Schmitt, probably the heg turn, case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 3 vs Nashua SS (Space Elevator)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc: T-humans, T-beyond, recommends CP, payroll tax cuts, case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: recommends CP and payroll tax cuts</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 5 vs Lexington AD (SPS)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc: Schmitt, recommends CP, payroll tax cuts, heg -> econ collapse (on aerospace), agriculture turn (on warming), case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: Schmitt, case (neither of the turns)</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Blake</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 vs Oak Park and River Forest MM (brilliant pebbles)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: T-Humans </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 3 vs Eden Prairie LC (GPS III)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: T-Humans</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 5 vs Lexington AM (Lunar Property rights)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: recommends CP and payroll tax cuts</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Lexington</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 vs Kinkaid JC (Nanotech)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: T-Humans</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 3 vs American History JB (DSCOVR)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: EIS CP, Case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 5 vs Technology BO (Aliens)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Exploration PIC</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Emory</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 vs Stratford JS (ORS) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: T-humans</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 3 vs St Ignatius BL (Satellite Hardening)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Weaponization DA, Heg bad, case defense </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 6 vs Maine East MS (VSE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Schmitt, case defense</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Newark Tournament</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 2 vs Centennial GM (MDA)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Scmitt K, Debris turn, case defense</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 4 vs Riverhill KS (D&G racism aff)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Gospel K, Race Conciousness Bad</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 5 vs ACORN CJ (this patriarchy/poetics of resistance thing) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: T-USFG</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Harvard</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 vs Lakeland PS (SPS)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Weaponization DA & Warming Good </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 3 vs Lexington KF (SPS)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Scmitt K </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 5 vs Lexington CR (SPS)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Politic & case defense</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 7 vs Brophy College Prep MW (SPS)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Warming Advantage CP, weaponization DA, & impact framing</span>

===Lakeland=== 
Round 1 vs NFA MS (DSCOVR)
2nr: Space Weaponization & case d (maybe warming good)

Round 3 vs Centennial HK (Earth Observation)
2nr: Space Weaponization & Debris turn


Round 6 vs Lexington SX (SPS)
2nr: Warming Good, Schmitt