[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Edina (MN) - Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Return to main page]]

=Asteroids Aff= 
==1AC - Greenhill RR== 

**Asteroid Collision**

**Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered**
NRC 2010 (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)

Ground-based telescopes have difficulty [...] as possible, especially imminent impactors.


**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**
VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)

In the past few years, [...] nature that will determine our fate.


**High risk of a strike – newest research proves**
Easterbrook 2008 (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)

Breakthrough ideas have a way [...] race is riding on the plane.”


**This is the only true extinction risk**
McGUIRE 2002 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)

Probably the only piece of good [...] is the right time to start.


**Short term focus fails to address real problems – need to look at longer timescales**
Tonn 04 – (2004, Bruce, PhD, Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University, Program Leader, ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor, UT's Department of Political Science, Director, UT's Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures 36 (2004) 91–108, elsevier, DH)

Why tackle 1000 years and not [...] -of-the-world.


**Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule**
MATHENY 2007 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)

We may be poorly equipped to [...] the costs of mitigating them.20


**Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is**
POSNER 2004 (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)
Even if our insouciant reaction to [...] or otherwise to reduce the risk.


**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end**
BARBEE 2009 (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm) DT

It is generally accepted that statistics [...] making process for defense against NEOs.


**Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close**
CHAPMAN 04 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)

I have argued [59] [...] left traces in the fossil record.


**Their “low probability” logic is irrelevant and prevents action to stop asteroids**
Brownfield ‘4 (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)

Once upon a time there was [...] expectation... and its attendant fear.


**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction**
Nyquist, 1999
[J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]

As I write about Russia's nuclear [...] (if any) fallout casualties.


**Even if nuclear winter theory is correct it assumes an impact bigger than theirs**
Ball 2006 (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)

In the early 1980s, various [...] 50 percent of the time’.6


**Tech solves warming**
NIPCC ’10 (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change, multi-national scientific coalition comprised of leading climate scientists, “Tropospheric Ozone Trends Around the World,” http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2010/jun/25jun2010a5.html, AM)

Logan et al. (2010 [...] the greening of the earth phenomenon.


**Hegemony**

**Taking the lead in planetary defense is necessary for overall US leadership – international organizations get bogged down**
Dinerman 2009 - author and journalist based in New York City (July 20, Taylor, “ The new politics of planetary defense ” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1)

Under the Bush Administration, [...] setting the stage for a disaster.


**The plan is key to human exploration of asteroids**
The New Yorker 11 – Ted Friend, Staff writer for the New Yorker (February 28, “Vermin of the sky; who will keep the planet safe from asteroids?”, lexis) DT

Nine days later, the White [...] to find money for planetary defense."


**Visiting an asteroid restores hope in the space program and props up US leadership – more important than landing on the moon – possible soon**
Friedman 2010 - recently stepped down after 30 years as Executive Director of The Planetary Society. He continues as Director of the Society's LightSail Program and remains involved in space programs and policy. Before co-founding the Society with Carl Sagan and Bruce Murray, Lou was a Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at JPL (December 13, Lou, “ The case for a human asteroid mission ” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1742/1)

I believe that this nation [...] Do we have it in us?


**Astronomical discoveries can spur national interest in STEM – that’s key to long term growth and competitiveness**
Elmegreen 11 – President of the American Astronomical Society and is the Maria Mitchell Professor of Astronomy and Department Chair in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Vassar [March 11, 2011, Dr. Debra Elmegreen, “Testimony of Dr. Debra M. Elmegreen President of the American Astronomical Society Before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies On Astronomy and Astrophysics in the FY 2012 Budget,” http://blog.aas.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/AAS-Testimony-to-Congress.pdf]

The excitement of scientific discovery is [...] are enrolled in astronomy courses annually.


**And science leadership is a prerequisite to hegemony and soft power**
Coletta, 09 – Duke University , Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]

To discover sustainable hegemony in an [...] academic researchers to build epistemic communities.


**US leadership solves war**
Zhang and Shi 11. (Both MA candidates at Columbia University. Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

Paul Kennedy was probably right: [...] be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.


**American leadership and cooperation aren’t mutually exclusive – other countries desire US leadership in space**
Friedman 2011 - recently stepped down after 30 years as Executive Director of The Planetary Society. He continues as Director of the Society's LightSail Program and remains involved in space programs and policy. Before co-founding the Society with Carl Sagan and Bruce Murray, Lou was a Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at JPL (February 14, Lou, “ American Leadership ” http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_information/20110214.html)

“American Leadership” is [...] the national and international political agenda.


**Plan**

**Plan: NASA should substantially increase its efforts to survey NEOs including both ground- and space-based tracking programs.**


**Solvency**

**Only space based detection solves long period comets and small asteroids – status quo fails**
IAA 2009 (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)

Long-period comets (LPCs [...] in the not too distant future.


**Deflection would be easy**
BOTTKE et al 2004 (William F. Bottke, Jr., Southwest Research Institute; Alessandro Morbidelli, Observatoire de la Cˆote d’Azur; Robert Jedicke, University of Hawai’i; Mitigation Of Hazardous Comets And Asteroids, p. 1-2)

It is now generally accepted that [...] taken to mitigate the potential consequences.


**Advance warning is key to prevent nuclear deflection which would destroy the Outer Space Treaty—it also prevents extremism and panic**
BRANDENBURG 2011 (John E. Brandenburg is a plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies in Madison Wisconsin, working on space plasma technologies and space propulsion, “Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis,” Astronomical Review, May 16, http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis)

The detection of a large asteroid [...] to foresee and prepare for one.


**NASA is key and in charge – asteroid efforts include other branches of government**
Hsu 2010 (October 22, Jeremy, “ White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/)

National emergency plans for natural disasters [...] represent a possible threat to Earth.


**Only NASA can do the plan**
FORTUNO 2007 (“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)

(1) Arecibo Observatory is [...] posed by near-Earth objects.

==1AC - Greenhill (Doubles)== 
Asteroid Collision

Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered
NRC 2010 (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)

Ground-based telescopes have difficulty [...] as possible, especially imminent impactors.


Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time
VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)

In the past few years, [...] nature that will determine our fate.


High risk of a strike – newest research proves
Easterbrook 2008 (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)

Breakthrough ideas have a way [...] race is riding on the plane.”


This is the only true extinction risk
McGUIRE 2002 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)

Probably the only piece of good [...] is the right time to start.


The scarcity of life in the universe proves both the probability and impact of our advantage
KAZAN 2011 (Casey, Owner of Galaxy Media LLC and graduate of Harvard University, “Tracking the Realtime Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids &comets- could it save the planet?”, The Daily Galaxy, Feb 8, http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html) DT

Stephen Hawking believes that one of [...] Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.


Short term focus masks longer term trends and makes extinction inevitable – turns its own ends.
Tonn 04 – (2004, Bruce, PhD, Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University, Program Leader, ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor, UT's Department of Political Science, Director, UT's Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures 36 (2004) 91–108, elsevier, DH)

Why tackle 1000 years and not [...] -of-the-world.


Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule
MATHENY 2007 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)

We may be poorly equipped to [...] the costs of mitigating them.20


Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is
POSNER 2004 (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)

Even if our insouciant reaction to [...] or otherwise to reduce the risk.


Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end
BARBEE 2009 (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm) DT

It is generally accepted that statistics [...] making process for defense against NEOs.


Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close
CHAPMAN 04 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)

I have argued [59] [...] left traces in the fossil record.


Their “low probability” logic is irrelevant and prevents action to stop asteroids
Brownfield ‘4 (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)

Once upon a time there was [...] expectation... and its attendant fear.


Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction
Nyquist, 1999
[J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]

As I write about Russia's nuclear [...] (if any) fallout casualties.


Even if nuclear winter theory is correct it assumes an impact bigger than theirs
Ball 2006 (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)

In the early 1980s, various [...] 50 percent of the time’.6


Tech solves warming
NIPCC ’10 (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change, multi-national scientific coalition comprised of leading climate scientists, “Tropospheric Ozone Trends Around the World,” http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2010/jun/25jun2010a5.html, AM)

Logan et al. (2010 [...] the greening of the earth phenomenon.


Plants won’t go extinct- they will adapt to any temperature changes
Lingle 4 (Christopher, professor of economics at Universidad Francisco Marroquin and a Scholar at the Centre for Civil society in New Delhi, “Higher CO2, More Global Warming, and Less Extinction”, Freeman, http://www.thefreemanonline.org/featured/higher-co2-more-global-warming-and-less-extinction, umich-mp)

It is widely believed that humans [...] them with protection against heat stress.


Accidental War

Space-based detection is key to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes
DAVID 2002 (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)

Military strategists and space scientists that [...] and detect small asteroids, he said


That would kill billions
FORROW ET AL 1998 (Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)

A missile launch activated by false [...] direct and indirect casualties worldwide.4


Irreversibility of war makes it unlikely to occur
Fettweis 2006 – National Security Decision Making Department (Christopher J. US Naval War College International Studies Review 8, 677–697 4.

However, one need not be [...] should believe that it could not.


No intentional war – nuclear weapons, trade and economics
Deudney 2009 - professor of political science at John Hopkins et al (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)

This bleak outlook is based on [...] peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.


Statistics prove nuclear deterrence checks.
Victor Asal, Political Science Department @ University of Albany SUNY, and Kyle Beardsley, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Emory University, 2007, “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior,” Journal of Peace Research, SAGE

As Model 1 in Table IV [...] crisis can have a destabilizing effect.


Taboo is too strong – all of their scenarios are wrong
George Perkovich, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, “Extended Deterrence On The Way To A Nuclear Free World,” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament

The reality today is that the [...] not committed aggression against Taiwan first.


Violence is decreasing – violent images have tainted our collective conscious
Pinker 2009 – Ph.D. Harvard college professor of psychology (Stephen, April 1st, “Why is there peace?” http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/why_is_there_peace/)

Over the past century, violent [...] how low our behavior can sink.

Plan

Plan: NASA should substantially increase its efforts to survey NEOs including both ground- and space-based tracking programs.


Solvency

Only space based detection solves long period comets and small asteroids – status quo fails
IAA 2009 (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)

Long-period comets (LPCs [...] in the not too distant future.


Deflection would be easy
BOTTKE et al 2004 (William F. Bottke, Jr., Southwest Research Institute; Alessandro Morbidelli, Observatoire de la Cˆote d’Azur; Robert Jedicke, University of Hawai’i; Mitigation Of Hazardous Comets And Asteroids, p. 1-2)

It is now generally accepted that [...] taken to mitigate the potential consequences.


Advance warning is key to prevent nuclear deflection which would destroy the Outer Space Treaty—it also prevents extremism and panic
BRANDENBURG 2011 (John E. Brandenburg is a plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies in Madison Wisconsin, working on space plasma technologies and space propulsion, “Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis,” Astronomical Review, May 16, http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis)

The detection of a large asteroid [...] to foresee and prepare for one.


Only NASA can do the plan
FORTUNO 2007 (“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)

(1) Arecibo Observatory is [...] posed by near-Earth objects.


NASA is key and in charge – asteroid efforts include other branches of government
Hsu 2010 (October 22, Jeremy, “ White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/)

National emergency plans for natural disasters [...] represent a possible threat to Earth.


Taking the lead in planetary defense is key to overall US leadership – international organizations get bogged down
Dinerman 2009 - author and journalist based in New York City (July 20, Taylor, “ The new politics of planetary defense ” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1)

Under the Bush Administration, [...] setting the stage for a disaster.


US leadership deescalates conflicts
Zhang and Shi 11. (Both MA candidates at Columbia University. Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

Paul Kennedy was probably right: [...] be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.


==1AC - Rosemount RR== 

**Asteroid Collision**

**Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered**
NRC 2010 (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)

Ground-based telescopes have difficulty [...] as possible, especially imminent impactors.


**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**
VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)

In the past few years, [...] nature that will determine our fate.


**High risk of a strike – newest research proves**
Easterbrook 2008 (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)

Breakthrough ideas have a way [...] race is riding on the plane.”


**This is the only true extinction risk**
McGUIRE 2002 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)

Probably the only piece of good [...] is the right time to start.


**Short term focus masks longer term trends and makes extinction inevitable – turns its own ends.**
Tonn 04 – (2004, Bruce, PhD, Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University, Program Leader, ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor, UT's Department of Political Science, Director, UT's Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures 36 (2004) 91–108, elsevier, DH)

Why tackle 1000 years and not [...] -of-the-world.


**Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule**
MATHENY 2007 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)

We may be poorly equipped to [...] the costs of mitigating them.20


**Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is**
POSNER 2004 (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)

Even if our insouciant reaction to [...] or otherwise to reduce the risk.


**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end**
BARBEE 2009 (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm) DT

It is generally accepted that statistics [...] making process for defense against NEOs.


**Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close**
CHAPMAN 04 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)

I have argued [59] [...] left traces in the fossil record.


**Their “low probability” logic is irrelevant and prevents action to stop asteroids**
Brownfield ‘4 (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)

Once upon a time there was [...] expectation... and its attendant fear.


**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction**
Nyquist, 1999 [J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]

As I write about Russia's nuclear [...] (if any) fallout casualties.


**Even if nuclear winter theory is correct it assumes an impact bigger than theirs**
Ball 2006 (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)

In the early 1980s, various [...] 50 percent of the time’.6


**Accidental War**

**Space-based detection is key to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes**
DAVID 2002 (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)

Military strategists and space scientists that [...] and detect small asteroids, he said


**That would kill billions**
FORROW ET AL 1998 (Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)

A missile launch activated by false [...] direct and indirect casualties worldwide.4


**Shifts in attitudes prevent war**
Christopher J Fettweis, National Security Decision Making Department, US Naval War College, December 06, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?”, International Studies Review, Volume 8, Issue 4, Wiley, umn-rks

The obsolescence-of-major [...] , “sub-rationally unthinkable.”


**Economics and nuclear deterrence check war**
Deudney 2009 - professor of political science at John Hopkins et al (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)

This bleak outlook is based on [...] peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.


**Taboo is too strong – all of their scenarios are wrong**
George Perkovich, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, “Extended Deterrence On The Way To A Nuclear Free World,” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament

The reality today is that the [...] not committed aggression against Taiwan first.


**Current trends aren’t reversible**
Christopher J Fettweis, National Security Decision Making Department, US Naval War College, December 06, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?”, International Studies Review, Volume 8, Issue 4, Wiley, umn-rks

However, one need not be [...] should believe that it could not.


**Plan: NASA should substantially increase its efforts to survey NEOs including both ground- and space-based tracking programs.**

**Solvency**

**Only space based detection solves long period comets and small asteroids – status quo fails**
IAA 2009 (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)

Long-period comets (LPCs [...] in the not too distant future.


**Deflection would be easy**
BOTTKE et al 2004 (William F. Bottke, Jr., Southwest Research Institute; Alessandro Morbidelli, Observatoire de la Cˆote d’Azur; Robert Jedicke, University of Hawai’i; Mitigation Of Hazardous Comets And Asteroids, p. 1-2)

It is now generally accepted that [...] taken to mitigate the potential consequences.


**Advance warning is key to prevent nuclear deflection which would destroy the Outer Space Treaty—it also prevents extremism and panic**
BRANDENBURG 2011 (John E. Brandenburg is a plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies in Madison Wisconsin, working on space plasma technologies and space propulsion, “Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis,” Astronomical Review, May 16, http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis)

The detection of a large asteroid [...] to foresee and prepare for one.


**Only NASA can do the plan**
FORTUNO 2007 (“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)

(1) Arecibo Observatory is [...] posed by near-Earth objects.


**NASA is key and in charge – asteroid efforts include other branches of government**
Hsu 2010 (October 22, Jeremy, “ White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/)

National emergency plans for natural disasters [...] represent a possible threat to Earth.


**Comets penetrate the crust**
Marusek ‘7 (James, nuclear physicist & engineer, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf)

The great majority of asteroid and [...] with regularity in geological time.5


**Detection guarantees deflection - Incentives mean U.S. will invest all resources available**
Barrett, 6 [Scott, Professor and Director of International Policy, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Center for the Study of Globalization, Yale University, “ SYMPOSIUM: CATASTROPHE: The Problem of Averting Global Catastrophe,” Winter, 2006 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 527 ]

Protection of the Earth from [...] and these are thus particularly dangerous.)


**Only the Venus-orbit solves by providing a comprehensive NEO survey**
Dunham & Genoca 2010 Using Venus for Locating Space Observatories to Discover Potentially Hazardous Asteroids D. W. Dunham1 and A. L. Genova2 1 Kinet X, Inc., 7913 Kara Ct., Greenbelt, Maryland 20770􏰄3016, USA 2 NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 94035, USA Cosmic Research, 2010, Vol. 48, No. 5 pp. 424–429

CONCLUSIONS The IRAS, and now [...] of images for the NEA searches.


==1AC - Glenbrooks== 
Asteroid Collision

Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered
NRC 2010 (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)

Ground-based telescopes have difficulty [...] as possible, especially imminent impactors.


Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time
VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)

In the past few years, [...] nature that will determine our fate.


High risk of a strike – newest research proves
Easterbrook 2008 (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)

Breakthrough ideas have a way [...] race is riding on the plane.”


This is the only true extinction risk
McGUIRE 2002 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)

Probably the only piece of good [...] is the right time to start.


Short term focus masks longer term trends and makes extinction inevitable – turns its own ends.
Tonn 04 – (2004, Bruce, PhD, Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University, Program Leader, ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor, UT's Department of Political Science, Director, UT's Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures 36 (2004) 91–108, elsevier, DH)

Why tackle 1000 years and not [...] -of-the-world.


Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule
MATHENY 2007 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)

We may be poorly equipped to [...] the costs of mitigating them.20


Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is
POSNER 2004 (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)

Even if our insouciant reaction to [...] or otherwise to reduce the risk.


Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end
BARBEE 2009 (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm), DT

It is generally accepted that statistics [...] making process for defense against NEOs.


Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close
CHAPMAN 04 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)

I have argued [59] [...] left traces in the fossil record.


Their “low probability” logic is irrelevant and prevents action to stop asteroids
Brownfield ‘4 (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)

Once upon a time there was [...] expectation... and its attendant fear.


Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction
Nyquist, 1999 [J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]

As I write about Russia's nuclear [...] (if any) fallout casualties.


Even if nuclear winter theory is correct it assumes an impact bigger than theirs
Ball 2006 (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)

In the early 1980s, various [...] 50 percent of the time’.6


Accidental War

Space-based detection is key to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes
DAVID 2002 (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)

Military strategists and space scientists that [...] and detect small asteroids, he said


That would kill billions
FORROW ET AL 1998 (Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)

A missile launch activated by false [...] direct and indirect casualties worldwide.4


Major war is over – not even the recession can cause conflict
Fetweiss 10/3/11 - assistant professor of political science at Tulane University (Christopher J., “ The World is Actually Safer than It Used to Be ... And It Keeps Getting Safer ” http://hnn.us/articles/10-3-11/the-world-is-actually-safer.html)

While global anxiety rises over the [...] not always appear to be so.


Economics and nuclear deterrence check war
Deudney 2009 - professor of political science at John Hopkins et al (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)

This bleak outlook is based on [...] peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.


Taboo is too strong – all of their scenarios are wrong
George Perkovich, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, “Extended Deterrence On The Way To A Nuclear Free World,” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament

The reality today is that the [...] not committed aggression against Taiwan first.


Current trends aren’t reversible
Christopher J Fettweis, National Security Decision Making Department, US Naval War College, December 06, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?”, International Studies Review, Volume 8, Issue 4, Wiley, umn-rks

However, one need not be [...] should believe that it could not.


Plan

Plan: NASA should substantially increase its efforts to survey NEOs including both ground- and space-based tracking programs.


Solvency

Only space based detection solves long period comets and small asteroids – status quo fails
IAA 2009 (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)

Long-period comets (LPCs [...] in the not too distant future.


Advance warning is key to prevent nuclear deflection which would destroy the Outer Space Treaty—it also prevents extremism and panic
BRANDENBURG 2011 (John E. Brandenburg is a plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies in Madison Wisconsin, working on space plasma technologies and space propulsion, “Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis,” Astronomical Review, May 16, http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis)

The detection of a large asteroid [...] to foresee and prepare for one.


Only NASA can do the plan
FORTUNO 2007 (“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)

(1) Arecibo Observatory is [...] posed by near-Earth objects.


NASA is key and in charge – asteroid efforts include other branches of government
Hsu 2010 (October 22, Jeremy, “ White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/)

National emergency plans for natural disasters [...] represent a possible threat to Earth.


Comets penetrate the crust
Marusek ‘7 (James, nuclear physicist & engineer, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf)

The great majority of asteroid and [...] with regularity in geological time.5


Detection guarantees deflection - Incentives mean U.S. will invest all resources available
Barrett, 6 [Scott, Professor and Director of International Policy, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Center for the Study of Globalization, Yale University, “ SYMPOSIUM: CATASTROPHE: The Problem of Averting Global Catastrophe,” Winter, 2006 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 527 ]

Protection of the Earth from [...] and these are thus particularly dangerous.)


Physical investigation of potentially threatening asteroids is critical to response
NAC 2010 (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)

To guide development of effective impact [...] provide the only characterization information available.


Only the Venus-orbit solves by providing a comprehensive NEO survey
Dunham & Genoca 2010 Using Venus for Locating Space Observatories to Discover Potentially Hazardous Asteroids D. W. Dunham1 and A. L. Genova2 1 Kinet X, Inc., 7913 Kara Ct., Greenbelt, Maryland 20770􏰄3016, USA 2 NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 94035, USA Cosmic Research, 2010, Vol. 48, No. 5 pp. 424–429

CONCLUSIONS The IRAS, and now [...] of images for the NEA searches.


Human exploration is outdated – robots are a better source of scientific information
Phillips 7/19/11 - planetary scientist at the SETI Institute and author of over a dozen books, including Space Exploration for Dummies (Cynthia, “ Robots vs. Humans: Should we cede solar system exploration to the robots? Do humans have a place beyond low Earth orbit? ” http://scienceblogs.com/SETI/2011/07/robots_vs_humans_should_we_ced.php)

The final mission of Space Shuttle [...] more rocks in your return capsule!

==1AC - Harvard RR== 

**Asteroid Collision**

**Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered**
NRC 2010 (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)

Ground-based telescopes have difficulty [...] as possible, especially imminent impactors.


**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**
VERSCHUUR 1996 (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)

In the past few years, [...] nature that will determine our fate.


**High risk of a strike – newest research proves**
Easterbrook 2008 (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)

Breakthrough ideas have a way [...] race is riding on the plane.”


**This is the only true extinction risk**
McGUIRE 2002 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)

Probably the only piece of good [...] is the right time to start.


**Short term focus masks longer term trends and makes extinction inevitable – turns its own ends.**
Tonn 04 – (2004, Bruce, PhD, Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University, Program Leader, ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor, UT's Department of Political Science, Director, UT's Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures 36 (2004) 91–108, elsevier, DH)

Why tackle 1000 years and not [...] -of-the-world.


**Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule**
MATHENY 2007 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)

We may be poorly equipped to [...] the costs of mitigating them.20


**Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is**
POSNER 2004 (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)

Even if our insouciant reaction to [...] or otherwise to reduce the risk.


**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end**
BARBEE 2009 (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm) DT

It is generally accepted that statistics [...] making process for defense against NEOs.


**Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close**
CHAPMAN 04 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)

I have argued [59] [...] left traces in the fossil record.


**Their “low probability” logic is irrelevant and prevents action to stop asteroids**
Brownfield ‘4 (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)

Once upon a time there was [...] expectation... and its attendant fear.


**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction**
Nyquist, 1999 [J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]

As I write about Russia's nuclear [...] (if any) fallout casualties.


**Even if nuclear winter theory is correct it assumes an impact bigger than theirs**
Ball 2006 (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)

In the early 1980s, various [...] 50 percent of the time’.6


**Accidental War**

**Space-based detection is key to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes**
DAVID 2002 (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)

Military strategists and space scientists that [...] and detect small asteroids, he said


**That would kill billions**
FORROW ET AL 1998 (Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)

A missile launch activated by false [...] direct and indirect casualties worldwide.4


**Major war is over – not even the recession can cause conflict**
Fetweiss 10/3/11 - assistant professor of political science at Tulane University (Christopher J., “ The World is Actually Safer than It Used to Be ... And It Keeps Getting Safer ” http://hnn.us/articles/10-3-11/the-world-is-actually-safer.html)

While global anxiety rises over the [...] not always appear to be so.


**Economics and nuclear deterrence check war**
Deudney 2009 - professor of political science at John Hopkins et al (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)

This bleak outlook is based on [...] peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.


**Taboo is too strong – all of their scenarios are wrong**
George Perkovich, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, “Extended Deterrence On The Way To A Nuclear Free World,” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament

The reality today is that the [...] not committed aggression against Taiwan first.


**Current trends aren’t reversible**
Christopher J Fettweis, National Security Decision Making Department, US Naval War College, December 06, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?”, International Studies Review, Volume 8, Issue 4, Wiley, umn-rks

However, one need not be [...] should believe that it could not.


**Specificity doesn’t save their scenarios**
YUDKOWSKY 2006 (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, August 31)

The conjunction fallacy similarly applies to [...] more probable than are conjunctions.'


**Plan**

Plan: NASA should substantially increase its efforts to survey NEOs including both ground- and space-based tracking programs.

**Solvency**

**Only space based detection solves long period comets and small asteroids – status quo fails**
IAA 2009 (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)

Long-period comets (LPCs [...] in the not too distant future.


**Advance warning solves nuclear deflection**
BRANDENBURG 2011 (John E. Brandenburg is a plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies in Madison Wisconsin, working on space plasma technologies and space propulsion, “Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis,” Astronomical Review, May 16, http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis)
The detection of a large asteroid [...] to foresee and prepare for one.


**Only NASA can do the plan**
FORTUNO 2007 (“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)

(1) Arecibo Observatory is [...] posed by near-Earth objects.


**NASA is key and in charge – asteroid efforts include other branches of government**
Hsu 2010 (October 22, Jeremy, “ White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/)

National emergency plans for natural disasters [...] represent a possible threat to Earth.


**Comets penetrate the crust**
Marusek ‘7 (James, nuclear physicist & engineer, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf)

The great majority of asteroid and [...] with regularity in geological time.5


**Detection guarantees deflection - Incentives mean U.S. will invest all resources available**
Barrett, 6 [Scott, Professor and Director of International Policy, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Center for the Study of Globalization, Yale University, “ SYMPOSIUM: CATASTROPHE: The Problem of Averting Global Catastrophe,” Winter, 2006 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 527 ]

Protection of the Earth from [...] and these are thus particularly dangerous.)


**Physical investigation of potentially threatening asteroids is critical to response**
NAC 2010 (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)

To guide development of effective impact [...] provide the only characterization information available.


**Only the Venus-orbit solves by providing a comprehensive NEO survey**
Dunham & Genoca 2010 Using Venus for Locating Space Observatories to Discover Potentially Hazardous Asteroids D. W. Dunham1 and A. L. Genova2 1 Kinet X, Inc., 7913 Kara Ct., Greenbelt, Maryland 20770􏰄3016, USA 2 NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 94035, USA Cosmic Research, 2010, Vol. 48, No. 5 pp. 424–429

CONCLUSIONS The IRAS, and now [...] of images for the NEA searches.


**Human exploration is outdated – robots are a better source of scientific information**
Phillips 7/19/11 - planetary scientist at the SETI Institute and author of over a dozen books, including Space Exploration for Dummies (Cynthia, “ Robots vs. Humans: Should we cede solar system exploration to the robots? Do humans have a place beyond low Earth orbit? ” http://scienceblogs.com/SETI/2011/07/robots_vs_humans_should_we_ced.php)

The final mission of Space [...] more rocks in your return capsule!


==Topicality== 
===2AC - T: Exploration is staffed=== 

Space exploration includes telepresence and operation – human presence isn’t necessary
Lester 9 –Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy, providing science and management policy, and is representing the astronomical community on the Lunar Exploration Roadmap effort he serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC), which reviews and provides advisory oversight and coordination of both space and ground-based astronomical research at NASA, NSF and DOE (Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243)

What to do? There are [...] no longer a particularly relevant distinction.


‘of space’ indicates that space must be the object of exploration or development – solves their limits claims
Bockstiegel 95 –Ph D., Directitor of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)

The official title of the Outer [...] considered as ‘use’ of space.

==Counterplans== 
===2AC - ESA CP - Greenhill=== 

Perm is cooperation
National Research Council 10 – Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategiesand Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences (“Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies”, http://site.ebrary.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/lib/umich/docDetail.action?docID=10405102)DT

Recognizing that impacts from near- [...] These three services are described below.


Cooperation is key to relations
Chang 10 (SHENG-CHIH, Ph.D. candidate in Political and Social Sciences, Surviving the Crises: The Changing Patterns of Space Cooperation among the United States, Russia, Europe, and China, http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Sheng-Chih%20Wang%20SGIR%202010%20Paper.pdf, p. 44, September 2010, MM)

The US considered cooperation with Europe [...] monopolization (Lewis 2004a, 3).


Solves war
Washington Times 09-[“Embassy Row,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/feb/26/embassy-row-27814391/?page=]

The global economic crisis and lingering [...] of Southeast Europe,” she said.


Spending hurts the EU economy – cuts now
Times of Malta 9/14/11 (“ EU big guns target smaller budget” ” http://www.timesofmalta.com/articles/view/20110914/local/EU-big-guns-target-smaller-budget.384613)

A coalition of eight member states [...] in order to meet these criteria.”


EU economy is key to global economic growth
Farrell 07-[Towards Hegemony or Counter-Hegemony? The Rise of European Union InterRegional Cooperation Dr. Mary Farrell
http://www.reggen.org.br/midia/documentos/sobrehegemoniaoucontrahegemonia.pdf]
From its inception, the European [...] different strategies adopted towards each region?


Leads to war
Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8
Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21, Proquest
Pressures to cut defense spending, [...] from internal travails with external adventures.


No solvency – comets penetrate the crust – would destroy refuges
Marusek ‘7 (James, nuclear physicist & engineer, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf)

The great majority of asteroid and [...] with regularity in geological time.5


No solvency – photosynthesis stops
McGUIRE 2002 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)

The Tunguska events pale into insignificance [...] new comet heading in our direction.

===2AC - ESA CP - Glenbrooks=== 
Cooperation is normal means for the perm – the US works with other countries on NEO deflection
National Research Council 10 – Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategiesand Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences (“Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies”, http://site.ebrary.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/lib/umich/docDetail.action?docID=10405102), DT

Recognizing that impacts from near- [...] These three services are described below.


Cooperation is key to relations
Chang 10 (SHENG-CHIH, Ph.D. candidate in Political and Social Sciences, Surviving the Crises: The Changing Patterns of Space Cooperation among the United States, Russia, Europe, and China, http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Sheng-Chih%20Wang%20SGIR%202010%20Paper.pdf, p. 44, September 2010, MM)

The US considered cooperation with Europe [...] monopolization (Lewis 2004a, 3).


Solves war
Washington Times 09-[“Embassy Row,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/feb/26/embassy-row-27814391/?page=]

The global economic crisis and lingering [...] of Southeast Europe,” she said.


ESA is planning a Solar Orbiter now but there’s no formal adoption
BBC 10/4/11 (“ Europe to lead daring Sun mission ” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-15146082)

Europe is to lead the most [...] Orbiter can help us understand that."


Early warning is critical to prevent the storms’ worst impacts
Phillips 10 [Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]

Earth and space are about to [...] We take this very seriously indeed."


Kaboom
Adams 9/14 – founder of Natural News and the Consumer Wellness Center, the Health Ranger
(Mike, “Solar flare could unleash nuclear holocaust across planet Earth, forcing hundreds of nuclear power plants into total meltdowns,”http://www.naturalnews.com/033564_solar_flares_nuclear_power_plants.html, dml)

(NaturalNews) Forget about the [...] go into a total meltdown simultaneously.

===2AC - ESA CP - Emory=== 

Cooperation is normal means for the perm – the US works with other countries on NEO deflection
National Research Council 10 – Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategiesand Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences (“Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies”, http://site.ebrary.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/lib/umich/docDetail.action?docID=10405102) DT

Recognizing that impacts from near- [...] These three services are described below.


Cooperation is key to relations
Chang 10 (SHENG-CHIH, Ph.D. candidate in Political and Social Sciences, Surviving the Crises: The Changing Patterns of Space Cooperation among the United States, Russia, Europe, and China, http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Sheng-Chih%20Wang%20SGIR%202010%20Paper.pdf, p. 44, September 2010, MM)

The US considered cooperation with Europe [...] monopolization (Lewis 2004a, 3).


Solves war
Washington Times 09-[“Embassy Row,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/feb/26/embassy-row-27814391/?page=]

The global economic crisis and lingering [...] of Southeast Europe,” she said.


Herschel key to confirming existence of aliens
Popular Science 2011 (June 16, “ Herschel Telescope Spots a Star Spewing Powerful Water Jets into Interstellar Space ” http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-06/herschel-spots-young-star-spewing-water-jets-interstellar-space)

Researchers looking for signs of [...] the water into jets of gas.


That creates a sense of global interconnectedness that solves everything
Greer 9 (Stephen, Emergency physician and former chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital. He has met with and provided briefings for senior members of government, military and intelligence operations in the United States and around the world, including senior CIA officials, Joint Chiefs of Staff, White House staff, senior members of Congress and congressional committees, senior United Nations leadership and diplomats, senior military officials in the United Kingdom and Europe and cabinet-level staff members of the Japanese government, among others, “Implications of Extraterrestrial Disclosure”, http://www.bluealien.net/aliens-and-ufos/implications-of-extraterrestrial-disclosure)

The near-term implications of [...] us look at other immediate implications:


===2AC - Russia CP=== 
Cooperation is normal means for the perm – the US works with other countries on NEO deflection
National Research Council 10 – Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategiesand Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences (“Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies”, http://site.ebrary.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/lib/umich/docDetail.action?docID=10405102)//DT

Recognizing that impacts from near- [...] These three services are described below.


Cooperation is sufficient to reinvigorate US-Russian relations and solves alt causes
Savelyev 04, Alexander Head of Sector Geopolitics of Strategic Analysis IMEMO Vice-President of the Institute of National Security and Strategic Studies (INBSI), “ Prospects for US-Russian Cooperation in Ballistic Missile Defense and Outer Space Activities” Journal of Slavic Military Studies 17: 99–109, 2004, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13518040490440674 NEH)

After quite an optimistic stage of [...] -one place in this area.


US-Russian relations prevent Russia-China war
Newsweek, 95 (5/15, lexis)

"Russia," says Deputy Secretary [...] , economic development and the rest.


Russia plans to use missiles in case of an asteroid threat
Russia and CIS General Newswire ’11 (Russia and CIS General Newswire, 4/26/11, “New Russian missiles, "Tsar bomb" could help counter asteroids – academician,” 6/23/11, LexisNexis, MLK)

Russia's know-how could be [...] from the Earth, Kokoshin said.


And, Nuclear explosions are imprecise and cause fragmentation making the impact worse
Lu ‘4 (Statement of Dr. Ed Lu President, B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)

Why does the asteroid need to [...] for the purposes of resource utilization.



==Disads== 
===2AC - Observatory Tradeoff DA=== 

Plan builds new telescopes – those are key
NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL 10 – Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategiesand Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences (“Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies”, http://site.ebrary.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/lib/umich/docDetail.action?docID=10405102) DT
The pursuit of NEOs as small [...] required to meet the mandated goal.

Tradeoffs don’t apply – deep space overhaul will give Goldstone more flexibility
SatNews.com 10 (March 1, “NASA – NO LISTENING PROBLEMS”, http://www.satnews.com/cgi-bin/story.cgi?number=1000213618 WSX)

NASA officials broke ground near Canberra [...] communication complex near Canberra for NASA.

Hubble, Chandra, JWT, and space science missions sustain human exploration of the cosmos
Mountain and Grunsfeld 10 – Space News (Matt and John, March 22, “NASA’s Audacious Journey” http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2010/NASAs%20Audacious%20Journey%20_%20SpaceNews.pdf WSX)

For the last 50 years, [...] cosmos. Let’s keep it there.


===2AC - SKFTA - Greenhill=== 
Extinction risks outweigh everything else regardless of probability
MATHENY 2007 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)
Even if extinction events are improbable [...] humanity and those that threaten 100%.


SKFTA won’t pass – public
The Hill 9/10/11 (http://thehill.com/homenews/house/180751-obama-backed-trade-pacts-could-be-heavy-lift-for-house-gop)

House Republican leaders face a tough [...] Congress may have a different view.”


Jobs bill is at the top of the agenda – drains all of Obama’s political capital.
Reuters 9/15/11 (http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/15/us-obama-jobs-idUSTRE78D6HL20110915)

(Reuters) - President Barack [...] ; Republicans want to cut spending.


Obama won’t spend political capital to save trade deals
Reuters, 9/2/11, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902 DOA: 9/2/11

That would inflame relations with Beijing [...] appetite to lead aggressively on trade.


SKFTA won’t pass-no TAA deal and not on the docket
Inside U.S. Trade, 9/15 [“Timing of FTA Submission Remains Unclear, But Lee Visit Spur Action”, http://insidetrade.com/Inside-US-Trade/Inside-U.S.-Trade-09/16/2011/timing-of-fta-submission-remains-unclear-but-lee-visit-may-spur-action/menu-id-172.html]

Notwithstanding any arrangement that Senate Majority [...] passed by or submitted to Congress.


Republicans stall TAA-prevents SKFTA passage
Reuters 9/16/11
(US Senate Aims to Launch Debate on Worker Aid Bill, http://af.reuters.com/article/cameroonNews/idAFS1E78F0OZ20110916?pageNumber=2&virtualBrandChannel=0)

Reid accused Republicans of seeking to [...] it's too bad," Reid said.


Republicans stall for TAA
Kasperowicz 9/16/11
(Peter, The Hill, http://thehill.com/blogs/floor-action/scheduling/182109-a-closer-look-at-next-week)

Republicans have balked at re- [...] exactly how to bridge the divide.


Republicans will refuse-frustration over TAA
Ryan 9/16/11
(Josiah, Reid says Senate to take up Trade Adjustment Assistance next week, The Hill, http://thehill.com/blogs/floor-action/senate/182005-reid-says-senate-to-take-up-trade-adjustment-assistance-next-week)

Meanwhile, in the House, [...] legislation approving the FTAs to Congress.


Winners win – empirics
Green 2011 - professor of political science at Hofstra University (June 11, David, “ The Do-Nothing 44th President ” http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html)

The fundamental characteristic of the Obama [...] top of this essay are paradigmatic.


Debt ceiling tanked capital
O’Reilly 7/28 (7/28/11, Bill O’Reilly, Fox News “O'Reilly: Debt Crisis Will Damage Obama No Matter What Happens,” http://www.foxnews.com/on-air/oreilly/2011/07/29/oreilly-debt-crisis-will-damage-obama-no-matter-what-happens)

O'REILLY: OK. All right [...] even if a deal gets done.


Asteroid detection popular with DC and public—pre-requisite to travel missions
Berger 10 (Eric Berger, Science Reporter for HOUSTON CHRONICLE; “Next giant leap: With support growing, NASA takes a small step toward walking on an asteroid”; 9/5/2010; http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/7188211.html)

Hollywood fancies that when an asteroid [...] asteroid targets needed to be identified.


Plan’s popular with the public
Garver 10; (LORI GARVER, NASA DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR, master's degree in science, technology and public policy from George Washington University in 1989; Center for Strategic and International Studies; 4/26/10; http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/news_detail.cfm?ID=184)

These are truly tangible reasons for [...] And Mars will be even tougher.


Space policy change is under the political radar – the thesis of their link argument is about cost that is bunk
MSNBC, 11 [January, “NASA stuck in limbo as new Congress takes over”http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/40967788/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/nasa-stuck-limbo-new-congress-takes-over/]
Still, NASA's current quagmire may [...] , not part of the problem."


Korea FTA isn't key to the economy--claims of job creation are a myth
Krugman, Nobel Prize winning economist, 12/6/10 (Paul, Prof of Economics @ Princeton, "Trade Does Not Equal Jobs," http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/12/06/trade-does-not-equal-jobs/)

One thing I’m hearing, now [...] for it that it doesn’t possess.


Relations are high – SKFTA is no longer necessary.
Cooper et Al ’11 http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34330.pdf, “The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications”, Wiliam H. Cooper (Coordinator, specialist in International Trade and Finance), Mark E. Manyin (specialist in Asian Affairs), Remy Jurenas (specialist in agricultural policy), Michaela D. Platzer (specialist in industrial organization and business), March 24, Congressional Research Service, page 45

The United States and South Korea [...] an exceptional area of bilateral cooperation.


Can’t solve warming – clean tech needs a broader base
Mowery 10 – (2010, David, PhD, economics, professor at the Haas School of Business, U.C. Berkeley and NBER, Berkeley, “Technology policy and global warming: Why new policy models are needed (or why putting new wine in old bottles won’t work),” Research Policy 39 (2010) 1011–1023, http://web65.rollins.edu/~tlairson/pek/glbwarmdisinnov.pdf DH)

Finally, an element of program [...] the international scope of such a program


===2AC - Space Weaponization DA=== 
Directing an asteroid at earth would require too much energy – it is a small risk and is redundant with nukes
Space Policy 2002 (“Book Review; Target Earth”, Volume 18, Issue 1, February, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc021502.html)

There is still the question as [...] has lost much of its force.


No risk of perceived space militarization – response only used after we have found the asteroid
Cox and Chestek ’96 (Donald W., Doctor in Education and James H., Professional Engineer, “Doomsday Asteroid: can we survive?”, Print) DT

Asteroids exist mainly between 2 and [...] nuclear explosions, to protect ourselves.


No nukes in space – politically impossible
Maccone 2002 (February, Claudio, “ Political Problems for Planetary Defense ” http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc021502.html)

The Cold War ended about ten [...] all wars that went before it.

==Kritiks== 
===2AC - Astropolitik K=== 

Policy concerns should come first – realistic decisions are key to avoid extinction
HUNTLEY et al 2010 (Wade L. Huntley, US Naval Postgraduate School; Joseph G. Bock, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Miranda Weingartner, Weingartner Consulting; “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy 26)

These prospects raise many issues. [...] , which are easier to identify.


Asteroid advocacy is key to alerting policymakers to the danger of NEAs
Morrison et al. 2002 - NASA Astrobiology Institute (David, Alan W. Harris, Geoff Sommer, Clark R. Chapman, Andrea Carusi “Dealing with the Impact Hazard” http://www.disastersrus.org/emtools/spacewx/NEO_Chapter_1.pdf)

It is only during the past [...] of public perception and governmental response.


The critique refuses to accept the same falsifiable review our evidence goes through – disproves their methodology, destroys academic debate, and causes extinction.
Coyne, 06 – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)

Supernatural forces and events, essential [...] to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.

===2AC - Taoism K=== 
Reject the kritik – it’s based on flawed scholarship
READER ’08 (Ian; Professor of Languages, Linguistics and Cultures – University of Manchester, “Buddhism and the Perils of Advocacy,” Journal of Global Buddhism, v. 9)

Bringing one’s faith into the classroom [...] time to kick it out entirely.


Recognizing that we can’t see the future means we should try even harder to predict and avoid disasters—we have an ethical responsibility even if we don’t always guess correctly
KURASAWA 2004 (Fuyuki Kurasawa is Assistant Professor of Sociology at York University, Toronto, and a Faculty Associate of the Center for Cultural Sociology at Yale University, Constellations, Vol 11, No 4 [Blackwell])

When engaging in the labor of [...] sources of harm to our successors.


Don’t believe anything they say – falsifiability is a prerequisite – failure to abide by it causes extinction
Coyne, 06 – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)

Supernatural forces and events, essential [...] to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.


Even if you conclude death is neither good nor bad you have no right to choose for everyone else
D. G. Myers, Associate professor of English and religious studies at Texas A & M, “Responsible for Every Single Pain: Holocaust Literature and the Ethics of Interpretation,” Comparative Literature, 51, Fall, 1999, p. 266-288, http://www-english.tamu.edu/pers/fac/myers/responsible.html

Perhaps the best account of responsibility [...] ("Meaning and Sense" 54)


We know death is bad – there is a material difference between existence and non-existence
Wapner ’03 (Paul, associate professor and director of the Global Environmental Policy Program at American University, “Leftist Criticism of ‘Nature’ Environmental Protection in a Postmodern Age,” Dissent, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/menutest/archives/2003/wi03/wapner.htm)

All attempts to listen to nature [...] and compromise their fundamental moral commitment.


=Strategic Defense of Earth Aff= 
==1AC - State== 

**Plan**

**The United States federal government should develop space defense capabilities through the SDE proposal.**

**Advantage 1 is Russia**

**Resolving missile defense issues NOW is key to prevent another cold war – plan just has to show progress in negotiations**
Lozansky 10/28/11 - President and Founder of the American University in Moscow (Edward, “ Russia's Plan to Save the Earth ” http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/russia-medvedev-joint-missile-defense-hopes-698.cfm)

Rogozin's "Star Wars" initiative [...] scale Cold War, why not?


**Strategic Defense of Earth resolves this – offers a site of cooperation over missile defense**
RBTH 10/26/11 (“ Medvedev ‘interested’ in new strategic shield ” http://rbth.ru/articles/2011/10/26/medvedev_interested_in_new_strategic_shield_13644.html)

Having failed to extract a legal [...] it has of pleasing the president.”


**Scenario 1 is Relations:**

**No agreement coming on missile defense because of meeting cancellation – relations are doomed without the plan**
RIA Novosti 12/19/11 (“ Russian Press - Behind the Headlines, December 19 ” http://en.ria.ru/papers/20111219/170372209.html)

Russia-NATO missile defense talks [...] the United States throughout his presidency.


**Russia is either with us or against us – missile defense is the key issue**
RIA Novosti 2010 (December 2, “ European missile defense system either with Russia or against Russia - NATO envoy ” http://www.en.ria.ru/russia/20101202/161595398.html?id=)

The missile defense system in Europe [...] strategic balance of forces in Europe.


**Space underlies ALL other aspects of cooperation**
Logsdon and Millar 01 – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf )

Yet, to one participant, [...] giving them a psychological fig leaf."


**Sustained US-Russian relations prevent multiple scenarios of war and ensure US Leadership**
Nixon Center 3 (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship Interim Report” The Commission on America’s National Interests and Russia. The Nixon Center. Sept. 2003. http://www.nixoncenter.org/publications/monographs/FR.htm)

The proper starting point in thinking [...] a potential source of political support.


**Scenario 2 is War:**

**Independently, failure to implement SDE causes war with Russia**
RBTH 10/31/11 (“ Missile defense, asteroids and deadlock ” http://rbth.ru/articles/2011/10/31/missile_defense_asteroids_and_deadlock_13684.html)

Russian Ambassador to NATO Dmitry Rogozin [...] systems capable of carrying nuclear weapons.


**Russian war is the only scenario for extinction**
Nick Bostrom, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 2002, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards

A much greater existential risk emerged [...] will encounter in the 21st century.


**We access the fastest timeframe**
Xinhua 2011 (September 1, “ Russia warns against NATO anti-missile system buildup ” http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2011-09/01/c_131091658.htm)

MOSCOW, Sept. 1 ( [...] strategic balance of force in Europe.


**Scenario 3 is START:**

**Plan is key to keep START intact and to avoid Russian militarization**
Real News 2011 (“ Russia and USA on verge of another Cold War ” http://www.realnews24.com/russia-and-usa-on-verge-of-another-cold-war/)

Russia will pull out from the [...] of relations between the two countries.


**Prevents nuclear annihilation – modeling**
Dawn 12-20-2009. “World without nuclear arms,” http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/news/world/19-world-without-nuclear-arms-hh-03

The nuclear disarmament agreement between Washington [...] that end appears to be rocky.


**Scenario 4 is Cooperation:**

**US-Russian space cooperation key to prevent an arms race – spills over**
Savelyev 04, Alexander Head of Sector Geopolitics of Strategic Analysis IMEMO Vice-President of the Institute of National Security and Strategic Studies (INBSI), “ Prospects for US-Russian Cooperation in Ballistic Missile Defense and Outer Space Activities” Journal of Slavic Military Studies 17: 99–109, 2004, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13518040490440674 NEH)

Space, for many very understandable [...] a positive strategy for space exploration.


**Space cooperation uniquely key to preventing Russian nationalism**
Logsdon and Millar 01, John and James, scholars at the Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Affairs, George Washington University, Washington, “ US–Russian cooperation in human spaceflight: assessing the impacts*” Space Policy Volume 17, Issue 3, August 2001, Pages 171-178 NEH)

It was with respect to the [...] more nationalistic approach to international affairs”.


**Russian nationalism spurs nuclear force modernization, collapsing the US deterrent**
Sheridan 8 – foreign editor of The Australian (10/25/2008, Greg, “Beware Rushing Bear”, Weekend Australian, Lexis) MGM

Russia's political leadership has undergone a [...] strategic equations in the decade ahead.


**Cooperation is a prerequisite for effective multilateralism – now is key**
Rojansky and Collins 10 (Matthew, Deputy Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, and James, Director @ Russia and Eurasia Program @ Carnegie, “Why Russia Matters,” 8/18, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409,)

Yet however challenging this partnership may [...] new barriers to investment or trade.


**Advantage 2 is SDE**

**Scenario 1 is Asteroids:**

**SDE will save the world – destroys incoming asteroids**
RT 10/18/11 (“ ‘Star Wars’ as alternative to missile defense ” http://rt.com/politics/missile-defense-earth-nato-085/)

The package of proposals has yet [...] interceptors at Redzikowo Base in Poland.


**Independently, cooperation helps deflection**
Wall 10/5/11 - Space.com senior writer (Mike, “ To fight off asteroids, humans must cooperate ” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44787381/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/fight-asteroids-humans-must-cooperate/)

PASADENA, Calif. — The [...] "That's the most likely scenario."


**Standoff nuclear blast solves and prevents fragmentation**
Shiga ‘9 (David, New Scientist, “Saving Earth from an asteroid strike,” 3-28, lexis)

We could blast the asteroid with [...] properly use it," he says.


**Asteroids kill everyone**
Garreston and Kaupa 2007 – Lt. Col. AND Major in the Air Force (March 1, “ Planetary Defense: Potential Department of Defense Mitigation Roles ” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/documents/Potential-DoD-Roles--Garretson.pdf)

Larger asteroids in the range greater [...] ,16 possibly eliminating the dinosaurs.


**Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close**
CHAPMAN 04 (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)

I have argued [59] [...] left traces in the fossil record.


**Scenario 2 is Missiles:**

**SDE solves rogue state missile threats**
Frolov 10/28/11 - former director of the National Laboratory for Foreign Policy (Vladimir, “ Russia's Plan to Save the Earth ” http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/russia-medvedev-joint-missile-defense-hopes-698.cfm)

Russian media last week reported that [...] a deal on missile defense harder.


**Specifically, SDE prevents cruise missiles**
Frederick 8 Lorinda A. Frederick is Major Lorinda A. Frederick was commissioned through the Reserve Officer Training Corps, Michigan State University in 1993. She is a Senior Space and Missiles Operator with operational tours in Minuteman III Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM) and Missile Warning and Space Surveillance. She was a Crew Commander, Instructor, and Flight Commander in both mission areas. Major Frederick then served in Headquarters Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC) in Space and Missile Officer Assignments and ICBM Requirements. While assigned to HQ AFSPC, Major Frederick deployed to the Central Command Area of Operations where she served in the Space Cell of the Combat Operations Division, Combined Air Operations Center. She subsequently transitioned to United States Strategic Command where she was an exercise planning officer. Major Frederick has a bachelor’s degree in Accounting from Michigan State University, a master’s degree in Business Administration from Regis University, and a master’s degree in Military Arts and Sciences from USAF Air Command and Staff College. Major Frederick is currently a graduate student at the USAF School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. Approved by Lieutenant Colonel John H. Davis and Professor Dennis M. Drew [“Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense” June 2008, Graduate Thesis, PDF]

While research continued on lasers and [...] Administration cancelled Brilliant Pebbles in 1993.


**The longer we wait for defense the worse cruise missile threats grow— it destroys U.S. air power, U.S. naval power,—it also causes the U.S. to have to withdraw forces abroad**
Kueter and Kier, 07 – President of the George C. Marshall Institute AND Vice President of Lockheed Martin Corporation (Jeff AND David, 7/9/07, "The Cruise Missile Challenge", p. 6-11, KONTOPOULOS) PDF

So what is a cruise missile [...] . Thank you for your time.


**Air power solves conflict**
Dunlap, 06- Major General, Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Air Force, 30+ years of service, Distinguished graduate of the National War College (“America’s Assymetric Advantage”)
So where does that leave us [...] .S. is at risk.


**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**Strategic Defense of Earth is realistic and is the only way to maintain deterrence**
Belaeff 10/28/11 - Global Society Institute, Inc (Vladimir, “ Russia's Plan to Save the Earth ” http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/russia-medvedev-joint-missile-defense-hopes-698.cfm)

There is a real danger from [...] States as part of the deployment.


**US missile defense doesn’t work**
Negin 12/19/11 - director of news and commentary at the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington, D.C. In the 1980s, he edited Nuclear Times magazine, which the Utne Reader named one of the "10 magazines that made a difference" in that decade, praising it for presenting "bold new perspectives on global survival." (Elliott, “ U.S. Missile Defense Fantasy is Souring U.S.-Russian 'Reset' ” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/elliott-negin/us-missile-defense-fantas_b_1157936.html)

What is puzzling is that both [...] them on ships around the world.


**Russia is already on board**
Frolov 10/28/11 - former director of the National Laboratory for Foreign Policy (Vladimir, “ Russia's Plan to Save the Earth ” http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/russia-medvedev-joint-missile-defense-hopes-698.cfm)

Russian media last week reported that [...] of the "reset" agenda?








[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]