----
**For additional cites/info-**
email [[mailto:poo194@gmail.com|poo194@gmail.com]]
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Contention one: The Race for Space__</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space is imprinted with the characterizations of sub persons inhabiting it and vice versa. Thus racing space in type of a checker board mentality which distinguishes the space inhabited by whites and nonwhites.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">MILLS Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago 1997</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Charles-; </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Racial Contract</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">; p. 1-3</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Neither space nor the individual is usually an object of explicit and detailed norming for</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">the mainstream social contract. Space is just </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">there</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">, taken for granted, and the individual is tacitly … non-white body.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space is the unknown that offers the potential of unlimited benefits. A chance to start over once we have exhausted the possibilities of exploitation that are harnessed within our grasp. White supremacy is the unknown that is BEYOND the earth’s mesosphere our exploration and development is a global theoretical framework for situating discussions of race and white racism. We advocate for a RACIAL contract that connects with mainstream theory and uses the vocabulary and apparatus DEVELOPED for contractarianism to map this unacknowledged system.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">MILLS Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago 1997</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Charles-; </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Racial Contract</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">; p. 1-3</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">White Supremacy … this unacknowledged system.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">THIS RACING OF SPACE IS WHAT HAS LED TO MASS MURDER AND GENOCIDE OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">MILLS Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago 1997</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Charles-; </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Racial Contract</span>//</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Correspondingly, the Racial Contract ...with whom one could not speak or reason."</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Alex and I affirm the resolution through a metaphor the United States Federal Government should substantially increase space exploration and development beyond the Earth’s mesosphere like the debate community should blast-off beyond the Status Quo’s knowledge production that is rooted in white supremacy’s conception of spatiality.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Contention two: the metaphorical State of Space and Debate__</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">THE EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF SPACE IS AN EXTENSION OF THE SAME COLONIAL DRIVE WHICH LEAD TO EUROPEANS SETTLING TO RULE OVER NONWHITES.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">MILLS Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago 1997</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Charles-; </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Racial Contract</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">; p. 1-3</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the period of de jure ...revenge led by “Dusky Napoleons.”</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The exploration and development of space mimics the discoveries of the new world by Christopher Columbus. Proves why our discussion of the topic is crucial in order to get to the heart of this year’s resolution.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">LIVELY well known critic and Novelist 2000</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Adam-studied history and philosophy in England and London; phD student @ BurBack College University of Lodon; </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Masks: Blackness, Race, and the Imagination</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">; p. 1-2</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">On 12 October 1492...the limits of knowledge.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">DEBATE HAS TURNED INTO AN ISOLATED SPACE WHERE DEBATERS ARE SPECTATORS INSTEAD OF PARTICIPATORIES TO CHANGE THE COURSE OF EVENTS.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mitchell 98 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Gordon R, associate professor of communication and director of debate at University of Pittsburg. Also debated and coached at Northwestern, Wake Forest, and Louisville; “Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate,” </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Argumentation & Advocacy</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Volume 35., P.P]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">While an isolated academic … course of events (see Mitchell 1995; 1998).</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">THE SAME RACIALIZED SPACES EXIST IN DEBATE- CAUSING INNER CITY KIDS TO QUIT BECAUSE OF ROBBING OF AGENCY.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mitchell 98 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Gordon R, associate professor of communication and director of debate at University of Pittsburg. Also debated and coached at Northwestern, Wake Forest, and Louisville; “Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate,” </span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Argumentation & Advocacy</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Volume 35., P.P]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">With the competitive engines … their communities.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">If the ongoing failure to implement multicultural education into debate continues, debate will become irrelevant and therefore extinct.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Valdivia-Sutherland, Professor at Butte Community College, 98</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cynthia, “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensics Programs,” National Communication Association’s 84thAnnual Meeting.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">It has been argued that forensics is ... forensic multiculturalism.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">__CONTENTION THREE: SOLVENCY__</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">WE MUST ENGAGE IN A CRITICAL PEDAGOGICAL APPROACH IN ORDER TO UNVEIL THE KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION OF THE OPPRESSED.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Freire 68, Paulo </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Educational Revolutionary. “Pedagogy of the Oppressed”. Pg 139-140</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The desire for … constituted real communication.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">THE ROLL OF THE BALLOT IS TO ENDORSE THE BEST ADVOCACY THAT REJECTS THE COLONIZED EDUCATIONAL APPARATUS WHICH GUISES WHITE SUPREMACY.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reinsborough O4</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">, [Patrick writer, grassroots organizer, and popular educator. Originally published in David Solnit (editor), Globalize Liberation (San Francisco: City Lights Book, 2004), pgs. 161-211.]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">To think about decolonizing … to fundamentally redesign the global system.</span></span>