[[toc]]
=Note= 
Hi! Welcome to Field Kindley's first-ever NDCA Wiki page! We're pretty new to this, so if we've done something wrong, let us know. If you have any cite requests, you can reach me (Ben) at bawdebate[at]gmail.com. Who's ready for infrastructure?!
=Affirmative= 
==1AC's== 
[[2011-2012 - Field Kindley (KS) - Jordan Mecom & Ben Wright - Washburn Rural 1AC's]]
[[2011-2012 - Field Kindley (KS) - Jordan Mecom & Ben Wright - Wichita East 1AC's]]
[[2011-2012 - Field Kindley (KS) - Jordan Mecom & Ben Wright - Newton 1AC's]]
[[2011-2012 - Field Kindley (KS) - Jordan Mecom & Ben Wright - Topeka 1AC's]]
[[2011-2012 - Field Kindley (KS) - Jordan Mecom & Ben Wright - Lawrence 1AC's]]
[[2011-2012 - Field Kindley (KS) - Jordan Mecom & Ben Wright - NFL 1AC's]]
[[Nationals 1AC's|2011-2012 - Field Kindley (KS) - Jordan Mecom & Ben Wright - Nationals 1AC's]]
=Negative= 
==Disads== 
===CTBT DA (Broke @ WaRu)=== 
**A. UN test ban treaty likely to pass—Senate is still skeptical.**

**Rogin 6/10**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Josh, Senior Analyst for Foreign Policy Magazine. “<span style="color: #333333;">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/05/10/push_for_nuclear_test_ban_treaty_ratification_starting_soon|Push for nuclear test ban treaty ratification starting soon]]</span>.” June 10. [[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/05/10/push_for_nuclear_test_ban_treaty_ratification_starting_soon]]]</span>

**B. Obama has to prove he has the security credentials to win republican votes.**

**New York Times 9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The Test Ban Treaty.” 2009.[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/25/opinion/25mon1.html]]</span>]

**C. Plan viewed as a bad choice for security—kills support for treaty.**

**Powell 9**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]]</span>

**D. Impact—We control the biggest internal to extinction. The ban presents framework for the elimination of nuclear weapons.**

**Schultz, Perry, Kissinger, and Nunn 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mr. Shultz, a distinguished fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, was secretary of state from 1982 to 1989. Mr. Perry was secretary of defense from 1994 to 1997. Mr. Kissinger, chairman of Kissinger Associates, was secretary of state from 1973 to 1977. Mr. Nunn is former chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Presentation on the status of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. “A WORLD FREE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS.” The Wall Street Jornal. ]</span>

===Nuclear Power DA (Broke @ State Finals vs. Buhler)=== 

**A. Uniqueness—Nuclear power is still going strong despite the accident at Fukushima.**

**Schiermeier 4/27/11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Quirin, “Nuclear Energy: Defying Disaster,” Nature Journal, [[http://www.nature.com/naturejobs/2011/110428/full/nj7344-505a.html]]]</span>

**B. Link—Space-based solar power leads to a transition away from nuclear power.**

**Eadie 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Miranda—writer for the Financial Times, 9/23, “CAPTURING ENERGY IN SPACE AND BEAMING IT TO EARTH: Scientists hope solar energy can be delivered at prices lower than ground-based alternatives,” The Financial Post, lexis, ZR]</span>

**C. Impacts-**
**1. Nuclear Power is key to US technological superiority, economic competitiveness and preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons.**

**Frazier 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[S.J. Golub—US DoE, “Achieving the Vision of the Global Nuclear Energy Partnership – Greater Energy Security in a Safer, Cleaner World,” pdf, ZR]</span>

**2. Nuclear power is the only sustainable energy over the long term. It is also the most environmentally friendly.**

**Adamantiades and Kessides 2009**
[ICG Aeolian Energy, works at the World Bank (A. and I., “Nuclear power for sustainable development: Current status and future prospects,” Energy Policy, 9/21/09, sciencedirect]

===OST DA (Broke at WaRu)=== 

**A. Current UN space law has maintained peaceful use of space under ilaw.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">UNGA 10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[UN 65th General Assembly. “Strength of International Law to Prevent the Militarization of outer space.” October 2010. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.un.org/News/Press/docs/2010/gaspd458.doc.htm]]</span>]</span>

**B. The unilateral appropriation of space domain is in violation of international law.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hobe 5</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Stephan Hobem, Chair for Public International Law for the Air and Space Institute. “DISSEMINATING AND DEVELOPING: INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL SPACE LAW: THE LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN PERSPECTIVE.” 2005. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.oosa.unvienna.org/pdf/publications/st_space_28E.pdf]]</span>]</span>

**C. Failing to uphold the international law in outer space would effectively collapse it—the US is key.**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hickman and Dolman 2</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Hickman is an associate professor in the Department of Government and International Studies at Berry College in Mt. Berry, Georgia. He has written many papers dealing with space policy and Everett Dolman, Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 2002 (“Resurrecting the Space Age: A State–Centered Commentary on the Outer Space Regime,” Comparative Strategy: Volume 21, Number 1 (2002), Page 20, Available Online to subscribing institutions at http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/014959302317350855]</span>

**D. International law controls several internals to extinction, specifically terrorism, global warming, pandemics, and human rights.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bellinger 2007</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[John B III, Legal Advisor of the DoS “The United States and International Law” The DISAM Journal, vol. 29 Issue 4. Dec. 2007.] </span>

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sequestration DA (Broke @ NFL)</span>=== 

**1. NASA’s budget is stabilizing—although the budget is low now, the super committee will spare it from larger cuts. However, if the sequestration cuts do come, NASA will scramble to find funds for basic projects.**

**Leone December 12/9**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[David, columnist for Space.com. “NASA Chief Downplays Threat of 'Sequestration' Budget Cuts.” December 9, 2011.]</span>

**2. NASA projects require massive spending—they cause congressional backlash.**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Powell 9</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]]</span>

**3. We only have a year to reign in spending—new spending kills meaningful reform.**

**Cassatta Nov 24**

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Donna, staff writer for the Huffington Post. “Super Committee Automatic Spending Cut Triggers May Be Blocked By Congress .” November 24, 2011. [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/21/super-committee-deadline-automatic-cuts-triggers_n_1104994.html]]]</span>

**4. This has two implications-**
**A. It turns the case—if NASA’s budget is slashed to less than before, not only can we not do their plan, but we can’t do other NASA projects either.**
**B. We have to pass a new debt deal soon—sequestration cuts will tank the economy and destroy investment.**

**Tankersley November 21, 2011**
[Jim, reporter for the National Journal. “Super Committee Failure Won’t Hurt the Economy for Another Year.”]

===Yakuza DA (Broke State rd. 6 vs Tonganoxie)=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. Tech transfers to the Japanese government are inevitable in every space program to cut the cost—new programs create new opportunities for the Japanese to get space tech.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Venturini 2011</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Venturini, Verbano, Matsumoto, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology @ “SPACE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER: EVIDENCES FROM JAPAN.” Nov. 2011. [[http://library.iated.org/view/VENTURINI2011SPA]]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B. Tech transfers are inevitably intercepted by the Yakuza crime syndicate—they use these to fund and supply North Korean prolif.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Campbell, Beckner, and Tatsumi 2003</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[International Security Program of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Washington, D.C. “U.S.-Japan Space Policy: A Framework for 21 st Century Cooperation.” July 2003.]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">C. North Korean instability is high now – Kim Jong Un threatens nuclear stability.</span>**

**Korea Times 12-20**
[“'Chances of North Korea’s instability are quite high'.” December 20, 2011. http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2011/12/120_101244.html]

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">D. Extinction </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Richardson 2006 </span>**
[Corey, Washington-based analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, “The Coming East Asian Arms Race,” DPRK Studies, July 25, [[http://www.dprkstudies.org/2006/07/25/the-coming-east-asian-arms-race/?cat=41]]]

===LOST Politics (80% Win Record!)(Broke at Nationals)=== 

**A. Bipartisan support for LOST now—potential opposition in the senate could prevent passage.**

**Block 6/7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ben, Staff writer for the Worldwatch Institute. June 7, 2012.]</span>


**B. Plan costs political capital. [insert link]**

**C. Obama needs capital to pass LOST.**

**CFR 2009**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The National Interest and the Law of the Sea.” May 2009.]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">D. An attack on US ports is likely before 2015 – they must be secured.</span>**

**Parfomak and Frittelli 07**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Maritime Security: Potential Terrorist Attacks and Protection Priorities Updated May 14, 2007 Paul W. Parfomak and John Frittelli Resources, Science, and Industry Division. CRS Report for Congress. Online.]</span>


**E. Port attacks causes economic collapse and extinction**

**James 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lt. Morgan, Naval Postgraduate School. “Port Security Strategy 20072012.”<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/TR/2007/NPS-97-07-003.pdf]</span></span>


**F. Lost solves port and maritime security concerns, the economy, and the environment.**

**Panetta 5/9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Leon, Defense Secretary (Damn straight.) “Forum on the Law of the Sea.” May 9, 2012.]</span>


==Vagueness== 
===Vision for Space Exploration Violation=== 

**Vision for space exploration is extremely vague—its not the same thing as putting reinstating the Constellation program, it is an entire policy implemented by Bush in 04. Its exact provisions are vague and new policy dates need to be created—a one sentence plan cannot serve to cover the entirety of the policy.**

**Day and Foust 5**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dwayne A. Day and Jeff Foust, authors for the Space Review. “Forging a vision: NASA’s Decadal Planning Team and the origins of the Vision for Space Exploration.” December 5, 2005. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/521/1]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Given the current White House’s obsession with secrecy...winds, it may never be researched in depth. Few people pay attention to failed policy initiatives</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 16px;">China Co-op Violation</span>=== 

**US-Chinese plans for space operation operate under vague circumstances that ensure unproductivity.**

**Pace 2011**
[Space Policy Institute, Elliott School of International Affairs, The George Washington University. “China’s Growing Space Capabilities: Implications for the United States.” May 11, 2011]

“<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United States and China agreed to take specific actions to deepen dialogue ... senior PLA officers if the future for U.S. China military to military dialogue continues to be as uncertain as it has been.</span> 1

==D-SPEC (Integral to our asteroids strat)== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">A. Interp- Plan in a vacuum: aff has to specify how they deflect because of the insane amount of different deflection mechanisms. They also can’t fiat that asteroid deflection is normal means.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">B. Vio- they make the assumption that deflection just simply happens. This thinking leads to serial policy failure and kills solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Elmore 80</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Professor of Public Affairs at University of Michigan, Polysci Quarterly Pages 79-80]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">The most serious problem </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">with forward mapping </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">i**__s its implicit and unquestioned assumption that policymakers control the organizational, political, and technological processes that affect implementation.__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">The notion that policymakers exercise</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">—or ought to exercise—some kind of direct and determinant control </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">ov**__er policy implementation might be called the “noble lie” of__** </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">conventional public administration and </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">policy analysis</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">. Administrators legitimate their discretionary decisions by saying that their authority is delegated and controlled by elected and appointed policymakers. Policy analysts justify their existence by arguing that informed policymakers. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Neither administrators or policy analysts are very comfortable with the possibility that most of what happens in the implementation process cannot be explained by the intentions and directions of policymakers</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">. By assuming that more explicit policy directives, greater attention to administrative responsibilities, and clearer statements of intended outcomes will improve implementation, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">for**__ward mapping reinforces the myth that implementation is controlled from the top__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">This myth is increasingly difficult to maintain in the face of accumulating evidence on the nature of the implementation process</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">**__.__** Moreover, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">f**__orward mapping__**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">, as an analytic strategy, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">treats only a narrow range of possible explanations for implementation failures.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">C. Voters- </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Predictability- there’s no way we can predict all deflection mechanisms the aff might use. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Ground- they can spike out of specific case neg by claiming other mechanisms.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Education- no in depth debate on the mechanism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Err neg- They get infinite prep and first and last speech.</span>**
==Counterplans== 
===Brazil=== 

**CP Text: USfg should do the plan w/ Brazil.**

**Obs. 1 – Solvency: Brazil is a perfect cooperator for space endeavors—this solves relations.**

**BDHA 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bureau of Western Hemispheric Affairs, “The United States and Brazil: Space Cooperation.” April 9, 2011. [[http://www.state.gov/p/wha/rls/fs/2012/187612.htm]]]</span>

**NB: Shields politics**

**Zimmerman 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[President of the International Astronautical Federation (Approaches to Future Space Cooperation and Competition in a Globalizing World; Space Studies Board, Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, National Research Council of the National Academies, p 52]</span>

**NB: Key to soft power**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whitehouse 4/9</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Fact Sheet: U.S.-Brazil Science and Technology Cooperation.” April 9, 2012.http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2012/04/09/fact-sheet-us-brazil-science-and-technology-cooperation]</span>

===NSD's (AKA Fascism CP)(Broke at Nationals)=== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Text: The president of the United States should issue a national security directive enacting, via the national security council, ___.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">First, is historic solvency – Presidential Directives have been implemented within the realm of space policy.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">NASA</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> **88**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Available in NASA Historical Reference Collection, History Office, NASA Headquarters, Washington, DC, "Presidential Directive on National Space Policy," February 11, 1988. http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/pao/History/policy88.html]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14px;">Second, CP is key to national security policies.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">CRS 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">The National Security Council: An Organizational Assessment Richard A. Best Jr. Specialist in National Defense January 20, 2011 . Congressional Research Service. Accessed online.</span>

**We always run politics as a net benefit**
==Kritiks== 
===Fem IR=== 

**1. US space discourse is centered around a hetero-normative and gendered hierarchy. This is hidden in seemingly neutral plans for colonization, development, and exploration.**

**Griffin 9**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Penney, PhD in IR @ university of South Wales. “Securing Outer Space.” Pg. 60-61]</span>

**2. NASA problematizes female bodies. Its focus fundamental differences destroy gender identity and recreates historical sexual dichotomies.**

**Casper and Moore 95**
[Lisa and Monica, professors of sociology at UC-San Fransisco. “Inscribing Bodies, Inscribing the Future.” //Sociology Perspectives//. Vol. 38. 311-333.]

**3. This form of patriarchy commodifies women, procuring endless structural violence against women and all life forms, ensuring this violence follows humanity no matter what planet we inhabit.**

**Milojevic 8**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Ivana, Professor of sociology @ university of the Sunshine Coast. “Women and Alternative Futures.” Berkshire Encyclopedia. 2008.]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">4. Thus the alternative text: We should embrace an ecofeminist paradigm in objection to the affirmative case. Ecofeminism recognizes the inherent struggle against patriarchy in the environmentalist movement. The paradigm understands that challenging patriarchy on earth is a prerequisite to saving our species.</span>**

**Pincus 1**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Joy, writer for Women’s International Net (WIN) Magazine. “Uprooting the Patriarchy.” 2001. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.wloe.org/Uprooting-the-Patriarchy.435.0.html]]</span>]</span>

===Capitalism K=== 
**A. Space: capitalism’s final frontier—the US is attempting to capitalize off of space. Its policies exemplify the tyranny of Spanish conquistadors in their campaigns in Latin America.**

**Wild in 2009**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Nickie Wild writes for Sociology Lens, Wiley-Blackwell’s review journal on sociology. “Space: Capitalism’s final frontier?” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://thesocietypages.org/sociologylens/2009/06/23/space-capitalism%E2%80%99s-final-frontier/]]</span> BW]</span>

**B. Link—capitalism operates under the guise of expansion into space. It stalks outer space as an outside organ with which to perpetuate itself. This spacial fix will only be temporary, as it cannot quench captialism’s thirst. This turns the case and makes their impacts inevitable.**

**Dickens in 2010**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter Dickens, Prof. at University of Cambridge and Brighton. “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?” //The Monthly Revew.// November 2010 edition. BW]</span>

**C. The inevitable outcome of capitalism is the extinction of all lifeforms.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jones in 2009</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrew R. Ph. D. Assistant Professor of Sociology at California State University, Journal of Cosmology, 2009, Vol 2, pages 316-333. Cosmology, October 30, 2009. BW]</span>

**D. The alternative—we should engage in cosmic humanization. This allows us to reject capitalism and bring space into the sphere of debate.**

**Dickens in 2010**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter Dickens, Prof. at University of Cambridge and Brighton. “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?” //The Monthly Revew.// November 2010 edition. BW]</span>

===Lacan (Broke at DCI)=== 

**Link: Their scenarios of simulated war create a virtual reality called the Real. This virtual reality replaces actuality and creates a compulsion to repeat erratic events—turning the case.**

**Zizek 2k2**
[Slavoj, professor of philo and phycoanalysis @ European graduate school. 2002. “Welcome to the Desert of the Real.” P. 14]

**Implication: This totalitarian semblance of the mind creates a paradigm that subjects us to the death grip of so called reality. We believe that when we can freely express our objection to the system, but ultimately any attempts at change fail and simply fuel our unfreedom.**

**Zizek 2k2**
[Slajov, senior researcher at the University of Ljubljana and professor of phsycho-analysis @ . Welcome To The Desert of the Real. Pg. 2]

**Alternative: Traversing the fantasy restructures our political reality – the affirmatives scenarios simply externalize violence on to the Other.**

**Zizek 2k**
[Prof @ University of Ljubljana (Slavoj, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality, 124-127]

===The Machine K=== 

**A. Welcome to the twenty-first century and beyond! We may no longer be in the industrial age but kapitalism’s death grip is growing ever tighter. The affirmative’s assertation of space exploration looks to further the ongoing war man between man and capitalist society. This competition between man’s creation and mankind itself has been going on since the beginning of kapitalism evident in the working class’s struggle against the machine.**

**Marx 1867**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Karl, //Das// //Kapital//. English version. Vol. 1. Chap. 15. BW]</span>

**B. Space exploration is the pinnicle of man furthering capitalism into an all consuming fire. This dooms all positive outcomes of space exploration to failure.**

**Born 66**
[M<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ax, professor emeritous @ Gottingen and Edenburgh Universities. Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. October 66 edition. “THE BLESSINGS AND EVILS OF SPACE TRAVEL.” P. 14. BW]</span>

**C. The machine of capital ultimately consumes the laborer. The constant improvement system ultimately takes away the worth of man and leads to our destruction. The alternative is the rejection of the development of the very system that deems man irrelevant.**

**Marx 1867**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Karl, //Das// //Kapital//. English version. Vol. 1. Chap. 15. BW]</span>

===Sex K (DnG)=== 

**Link—Space itself is based entirely off of sexuality– the very actions of human flight, development, and colonization is subject to the human sexual paradigm.**

**Louv 10**
[Jason, Currently the Creative Director of the Space Development Steering Committee “Get Up Make Love: 21st Sentury Space Sexploration.” Feb. 2, 2010. http://hplusmagazine.com/2010/02/02/get-make-love-21st-sentury-space-sexploration/]

**Implication—The state controls the desires of humans with projecting nationalistic objectives as sexual desire.**

**Deleuze and Guattari 72**
[Anti-Oedipus 293-294]

**Alt—Sexual desire as developed by the state leaves our ability to change the world out of our hands; we are left with no more operational control than machines. Only by challenging our perception of desire and sex and how they form can we truly alter reality.**

**Deleuze and Guattari 1972**, Anti-Oedipus, 283-284
==Neg Strats== 
===**WaRu**=== 
**__Rd. 1 vs Topeka AZ (BMD)__**
1nc- Code of Conduct CP, OST DA, China DA, Aerospace Lobby DA, CTBT Tix, Case
2nr- Code of Conduct CP, China DA, Case

**__Rd. 3 vs SMS (SBSP)__**
1nc- Code of Conduct CP, OST DA, CTBT Tix, Case
2nr- Code of Conduct Cp, OST DA, CTBT Tix (Ghost extended, but we won on it,) Case

**__Rd. 5 vs Fort Scott PM (He-3 & Platinum Mining and Asteroid Deflection)__**
1nc- CTBT Politix, ITER CP w/ Fusion NB, D-Spec, China Disad, Case (Genocide Framework)
2nr- CTBT, D-Spec, Framework

===Wichita East=== 
**__Rd. 1 vs SME CH (Brilliant Pebbles)__**
1nc- Code of Conduct, OST DA, CTBT Politics, Security K, Case
2nr- Security K, Case

**__Rd. 4 vs. Shawnee Heights (Asteroid Mining)__**
1nc- ITER CP, China DA, Case
2nr- ITER CP, China DA, Case

===Newton=== 
**__Rd. 2 vs. Ft. Scott RW (SSA)__**
1nc- Code of Conduct CP, OST DA, Cyber DA, Case (Solvency Dump)
2nr- All of it (it was lay, it wasn't strategic to condense)

**__Rd. 3 vs. Hutch (Space Debris)__**
1nc- Code of Conduct (Ran as a Debris Adv. CP), CTBT DA, Case
2nr- Code of Conduct CP, CTBT DA, Case

**__Rd. 5 vs. Emporia TW (Asteroids)__**
1nc- CTBT DA, D-Spec, Nuclear Deflection DA, Case
2nr- D-spec (we leveraged abuse on CTBT and Nuclear Deflection)

===Topeka High=== 
**__Rd. 2 vs. BVSW KM (Asteroid Deflection)__**
1nc- CTBT DA, D-Spec, China DA, Case (Mostly impact calc probability stuff)
2nr- CTBT DA, D-Spec :), Case

**__Rd. 4 vs. Wichita East TT (BMD)__**
1nc- Security K, CTBT, China, Case
2nr- Security K, Case

===Lawrence=== 
**__Rd. 1 vs. Wichita East LS (CLAREO)__**
1nc- T-Human, Spending, Case
2nr- T-Human

**__Rd. 3 vs. Salina Central LW (ITAR)__**
1nc- T-Of, Ambagen K with biopolitics scenario, China DA, case
2nr- Ambagen

===NFLs at Fort Scott - Qualled to NFL Nationals :)=== 
**__Rd. 1 vs. Fort Scott ST (SSA)__**
1nc- EU Co-op CP, EU Relations Disad, Case
2nr- All of it

**__Rd. 4 vs. Derby MR (Solar Flares)__**
1nc- Earth Science Trade-Off DA, 1 million Inherency Cards, Case Frontlines
2nr- Inherency

**__Rd. 6 vs. Fort Scott WR Loss (SSA)__**
1nc- Code of Conduct CP, OST DA, Case
2nr- Code of Conduct CP w/ debris NB, OST DA, Case

===DCI (First time Field Kindley has gone since the 90's)=== 
**__Rd. 2 vs BVN EJ (Lunar Solar Power)__**
1nc- Code of Conduct, OST, Cap K, Case (Dedev)
2nr- Cap K, Dedev, Case

**__Rd. 3 vs. Hutch BT (Courts AFF)__**
1nc- Lacan K, Effects T, T-Develop, Courts Clogging DA, Case
2nr- Topicality

**__Rd. 5 vs Mulvane DW (Asteroid)__**
1nc- EU CP, CTBT DA, EU Relations, Case
2nr- EU CP, EU Relations, Case

**__Rd. 7 vs. Manhattan DS (Vision For Space Exploration)__**
1nc- Nationalism K, China DA, CTBT DA, Case
2nr- Nationalism K

===State=== 
**__Rd. 2 vs. KC-Piper (Asteroid Mining)__**
1nc- China DA, Case
2nr- China DA, Case

**__Rd. 4 vs. KC- Piper (Solar Sails)__**
1nc- Sequestration DA, Case
2nr- Sequestration DA, Case

**__Rd. 6 vs. Tonganoxie (SBSP)__**
1nc- CTBT DA, China DA, Yokuza DA, Case
2nr- Yokuza DA, CTBT, Case

**__Quarters vs. St. James Academy (Dark Disk Cancer Research)__**
1nc- T-Of, Privates CP, Sequestration DA, CTBT Politics, Yokuza DA, Case (Analytics)
2nr- T-Of, Privates CP, CTBT

**__Finals vs. Buhler (SBSP)__**
1nc- Nuclear Power DA, Spending DA, Case
2nr- Nuclear Power DA, Case (really poor performance on our part)

===NFL Nationals=== 

**__Rd. 1 vs. [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Henry W. Grady (GA) - Samantha Chiang & Zoe Hamilton|Henry W. Grady HW]] (SUSTAIN plus SCORPIUS)__**
1nc- NSD's CP, LOST Politics, Case (Terrorism Psychology Defense, Solvency, Timeframe)
2nr- NSD's CP, LOST Poliics, Timeframe stuff on solvency

**__Rd. 3 vs. [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Moore (OK) - Hong Her & John Newton|Moore HD]] (BMD)__**
1nc- NSD's CP, LOST Politics, China Nationalism, Case (Solvency)
2nr- NSD's CP, LOST Politisc, Case (Timeframe)

**__Rd. 5 vs. [[debatecoaches/Policy Debate|Millard West MW]](ISS Pharmaceutical Research)__**
1nc- Brazil w/ Smart Power NB, China DA, Case
2nr- Brazil, China

**__Rd. 7 vs. [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Leland (CA) - Jeff Huang & Junsun Yoo|Leland SY]] (Brilliant Pebbles BMD)__**
1nc- NSD CP, LOST, China, Case
2nr- NSD CP, LOST

**__Rd. 9 vs. CPS? (DSCOVR)__**
1nc- Brazil, LOST, China, Case
2nr- Brazil, LOST

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]