[[toc]]
=FYI= 
I do not compete on the TOC/National circuit save for TFA state and Nationals.....

This wiki will serve you no competitive advantage, but I just want my cases out there to nullify any advantages the more privileged schools/debaters have.

I have also qualified for state, so.... why not?

Thank you,

Michael

----

Debate tournaments this year:

Elkins
Cy. Woods
Bellaire (The cases were changed before being used here, the ones that were changed are posted)
Foster
Clear something... 
Idk

Next tournament:

Texas City
Something else
State
District

=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Dehumanization Animals

I affirm, **Resolved: Justice requires the recognition of animal rights**

I **define** the following terms:
Justice: Giving each their due
Recognition: Formally acknowledge

**Observation 1**: Recognition means that the negative can’t just think about animal rights without advocating for some actions. This is true for 3 reasons
1. It is the common application of recognition, and
2. It checks abusive positions that change very little without having negative impacts while slightly avoiding status quo problems
3. Only through action can one know you have actually recognized something

Thus both debaters must provide for some action, though providing for action is not the only thing one has to prove to win.

The **value is Justice**, as the resolution questions whether justice should include animal’s rights. Justice is defined as fairness, so arguments must pertain to whether it is fair to give animals’ rights.

The only way to evaluate justice is through utilitarianism. This means that for this debate the individual that achieves the most good should win.

Utilitarianism is valid for 3 reasons;

**FIRST**, Not killing one person to save more people would give un-equal value to the one over the many. **Rakowski[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]** explains,

**__The core conviction ...__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> must kill to do so.</span>

**SECOND,** The value of individuals must be protected if we are to value people at all.

Cummisky[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] explains,

<span style="color: #18170e; font-size: 6pt;">So the Kantian deontologist ... many as I can.In shor….//deontologist//.</span>

And, **THIRD**, All moral theories rest upon ends based calculations of rightness.

Johnson[[home#_ftn3|[3]]] explains,

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">If we follow the... able to give.</span>

Thus the standard must be minimizing suffering, which is a utilitarian calculus. You should vote for the debater that minimizes the most suffering.

The thesis and sole contention is that using animal rights to end factory farming minimizes the most suffering.

Sub-point A: The problem of human abuse

In the factory farming industry animals are abused, which results in human abuse.

Workers are forced to do awful things in the name of efficiency, Dillard[[home#_ftn4|[4]]] explains

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">A People for the ....</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> any one given shift.</span>

This work environment negatively affects the human workers. Besides the significant amounts of physical danger, emotional problems are the most serious problems. Dillard continues,

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">While slaughterhouse work is n..... death with a pipe.</span><span style="color: black;"> **__I can’t care__**.</span>


Sub-point B: The impact

The environment of factory farms negatively impacts the nature of the human beings working there, Dillard explains

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">In this country, ...</span>**__<span style="color: black;"> general population.</span>__**

I am not crying wolf, these psychological problems actually affect the general population. Fitzgerald[[home#_ftn5|[5]]] explains,
<span style="font-size: 6pt; vertical-align: baseline;">More than 100 .... the sociology of violence.</span>

Therefore I submit that animal abuse leads to human abuse. **<span style="color: #393939;">E.D concludes[[home#_ftn6|[6]]],</span>**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">According to United Animal ...</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> requires immediate action."</span>


Sub-point C: The solvency

The ballot determines what is true and false. By voting for the true position, that position will gain a larger audience, informing others about their cause. Although by sitting in this room we are not fighting genocide or stopping oppression, our discourse can make a difference. By voting for the affirmative my discourse gains credibility and a larger audience, the two criteria necessary to prompt change.
The recognition of animal rights makes a change, and the unrest it causes does my discourse justice. For example, people like us have used discourse to stop the abuse of hogs with gestation stalls, which confine mother pigs to a sitting position for their entire depressing life. Animals Australia[[home#_ftn7|[7]]] explains,

**__<span style="font-family: Tahoma;">The decision ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 6pt;">this date forward.</span>

This phase out is going to close farms, my affirmative position is making a difference. CGM[[home#_ftn8|[8]]] explains

**__<span style="font-family: Arial;">The </span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Australian pork... on free range farms. "</span>

The resolution demands that we make a difference; I am giving you the opportunity to do so with the ballot.

The utility of rights are the only way we have useful rights, Wise[[home#_ftn9|[9]]] concludes;

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“Animal rights” is a term that....</span>**__of the law.__**

Justice demands that you weigh consequences and act on who produces the best net end. I have provem that the lack of recognition of animal rights allows for human and animal abuse and I hope you to make a difference by voting for the affirmative. Thank you.

----
[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eric Rakowski. “Taking and Saving Lives.” //Columbia Law Review//. June 1993.</span>
[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> David</span><span style="color: #18170e; font-size: 8pt;"> Cummisky</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, professor of philosophy at Bates, “Kantian Consequentialism”, p. 131</span>

[[home#_ftnref|[3]]] <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Johnson, ‘85 (Conrad D. Johnson, 'The Authority of the Moral Agent', Journal of Philosophy 82, No 8 (August 1985), pp. 391) </span>
[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jennifer Dillard. [Georgetown University Law Center, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1016401#%23|Georgetown Journal on Poverty Law & Policy, Forthcoming]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ] “A Slaughterhouse Nightmare: Psychological Harm Suffered by Slaughterhouse Employees and the Possibility of Redress through Legal Reform” September 24, 2007 </span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]] <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Amy J. Fitzgerald, Linda Kalof, and Thomas Dietz</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Slaughterhouses and Increased Crime Rates: An Empirical Analysis of the Spillover From “The Jungle” Into the Surrounding CommunityOrganization & Environment June 2009 22: 158-184, first published on June 2, 2009 doi:10.1177/1086026609338164</span>

[[home#_ftnref|[6]]] [[http://www.suite101.com/article.cfm/animal_cruelty/13995/2|//http://www.suite101.com/article.cfm/animal_cruelty/13995/2//]]//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">; </span>//[[http://www.suite101.com/daily.cfm/1998-12-28|//Dec 28, 1998//]]//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">; Copyrighted information – Specific people are referenced in card</span>//

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.animalsaustralia.org/features/sow-stall-vote.php]], </span><span style="background-color: white; color: #42423b; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Pig industry moves on sow stalls!</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Sow stall phase out to cost Australian pork industry 95 million dollars http://www.craigmostyn.com.au/sow-stall-phase-out-cost-australian-pork-industry-95-million-dollars</span>

[[home#_ftnref|[9]]] <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Steven M wise, Legal Rights for Nonhuman Animals: The case for Chimpanzees and Bonobos </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">Animal Law 179 (1996)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> /</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">Steven M. Wise</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;"> (born 1952) is an American legal scholar who specializes in animal protection issues,</span> <span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primatology|primatology]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">, and animal intelligence. He teaches</span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animal_rights|animal rights]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;"> law at</span> <span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_Law_School|Harvard Law School]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">,</span> <span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vermont_Law_School|Vermont Law School]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">,</span> <span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Marshall_Law_School|John Marshall Law School]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">,</span> <span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_%26_Clark_Law_School|Lewis & Clark Law School]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">, and</span> <span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tufts_University|Tufts University]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;"> School of Veterinary Medicine. He is a former president of the</span> <span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animal_Legal_Defense_Fund|Animal Legal Defense Fund]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">, and founder and president of the</span> <span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center_for_the_Expansion_of_Fundamental_Rights|Center for the Expansion of Fundamental Rights]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">.</span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_M._Wise#cite_note-home-0|[1]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;"> The</span> [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yale_Law_Journal|//Yale Law Journal//]]<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;"> has called him "one of the pistons of the animal rights movement."</span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_M._Wise#cite_note-center-1|[2]]]</span>


==Negative== 
Contractualism w/ a little skepticism

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I negate the resolution; resolved: Justice requires the recognition of animal rights</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I value Justice, as demanded by the resolution.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Take a second and ask your self “What is the definition of justice?” </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Now, ask yourself if your conception of justice is the same as those in other countries? </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Or how about other states? Or cities? Or households? Or even in your own home? Or even among us three?</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">You should agree that morality is a subjective and variable entity. These variations mean that our conceptions of moral obligations, or normative reasons to act, are solely reflections of our society, not of objective truths. J.L. Mackie[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] explains, </span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The argument from ...</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> of</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> objective values.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">You may say: My justice is not that different from yours; there must be some universal morality. It seems logical, there must be some baseline for truth. The problem is, there isn’t. We would be incapable of understanding such truths, even if they did exist. We can doubt the validity of moral obligations, because it is illogical for us to be penalized for not acting on a moral principle we don’t understand. Because as Mackie explains,</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Even more important,...</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> meaningless but false.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mackie’s problem with a universal morality would appear to allow for murder. This is not true, though it does give us reasons to be a skeptic. We can doubt morality but still be good citizens. The answer is found in contracts. A mutually agreeable hypothetical contract binds the individual to action, but also doesn’t infringe upon their will. We can make contracts between ourselves to have normative reasons to act, but not pretend to have a full understanding objective moral truths. **Thus the standard is Contractualism**, which does not demand or forbid too much but does create a mutually agreeable moral contract. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 1: Animals cannot enter into the contracts that create morality</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">David Gauthier[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">We have already n....rationally grounded</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **__morality__**. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Carl Cohen[[home#_ftn3|[3]]], Professor of Philosophy at the University of Michigan, concludes my position, </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The holders of ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> and do possess rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I am not advocating for animal abuse, for we can be nice to animals if it pleases us, but I am saying there is no morally compelling reason to give rights to animals for which they cant understand and reciprocate. </span>

----
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">J.L Mackie. __Ethics Inventing Right and Wrong__ Chapter 1 “The subjectivity of Values”. Page 35-38.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]</span>**<span style="font-family: AdvP5958; font-size: 6pt;">David Gauthier [University of Pittsburgh], Political Contractarianism, Journal of Political Philosophy 5:2, pp.132-148, 1997</span>**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Carl. "The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research." </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">The New England Journal of Medicine</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> 315.14 (1986): 856-70. Print.</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

This is left over from camp, it will be edited before Clear Lake and Aldine. This is actually the oldest version, so idk.

Communitarian Aff: (PS = second part)

I affirm, **Resolved: Individuals have a moral obligation to assist people in need**

I define the following words for clarity:
* Individuals: Any person, not a state
* Moral Obligation: Something that provides you normative reasons to act

Observation 1: Moral obligations prescribe active action. If I prove that people have positive duties to other people then you affirm. It is not sufficient for the negative to say that there are stronger negative obligations, since any positive obligation means a moral obligation exists and you affirm.

I value **Morality** as the resolution distinguishes normative action from plain action.

Relevant morality can’t exist independent of individuals,
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">Helen </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">Haste</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">19</span>**__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">98</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">Reader in Psychology at the University of Bath, England. </span><span style="font-family: Times;"> Explains </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">Cultural narratives, stories ... </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;"> state must be effective.</span>

This demands that all metaethical conceptions of morality provide for social interaction.

<span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">The Responsive Community: A Communitarian Perspective Author(s):</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Amitai </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Etzioni</span>__**<span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Source: American Sociological Review, Vol. 61, No. 1 (Feb., 19</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">96</span>__**<span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">), pp. 1-11Published by: American Sociological Association Stable URL:</span> <span style="color: #234786; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/2096403</span><span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">. Accessed: 30/07/2011 </span><span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">explains the flaws of isolationism</span>

**__The libertarian perspective__**,...<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> bonds or culture. </span>

This means morality based upon social reflection doesn’t answer because the individual’s questioning of a fundamental moral truth would be infinitely regressive because there is no conception of a starting truth away from a society.

Further, <span style="font-size: 14pt;">Society existing creates special negative rights</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Individual Rights and Community Virtues Author(s): John</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;"> **__Tomasi__**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Source: Ethics, Vol. 101, No. 3 (Apr., 19</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">91</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">), pp. 521-536 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381467 . Accessed: 09/08/2011 01:29</span>

**__We can take ...__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">recognizing a debt. </span>

This means that the rights of people are important in a social setting because of how our actions appear to our peers. This means that individual rights are not only acted upon by the community, but are also used in the social setting.

Thus the standard is accounting for social interaction, since moral duties have to provide for a society


Contention 1: Aid to the individual requires the society

Sub point A: Communitarianism uniquely allows for social interaction

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Humans are social beings and require a society </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">IDENTITY AND COMMUNITY Sean</span> **__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Sayers</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">University of Kent at Canterbury 4 March, 19</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">96</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Specifically, they agree i...l theory is a myth.</span>




Sub point B: Communitarianism aid people

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The world is connected through internal communal obligations. With the world as one unit we are able to create a society that cares about the individual rights by making the community responsive.</span>
<span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">The Responsive Community: A Communitarian Perspective Author(s):</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Amitai </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">Etzioni 2</span>__**<span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Source: American Sociological Review, Vol. 61, No. 1 (Feb., 19</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt;">96</span>__**<span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">), pp. 1-11</span>
<span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Published by: American Sociological Association Stable URL:</span> <span style="color: #234786; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/2096403</span><span style="color: #454545; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">. Accessed: 30/07/2011</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A more realistic and... Such levels of loyalty seem natur</span>


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Thus communitarians help those in need because of their positive obligations to the society because the nature of society and the obligations citizens have to each other</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">This is evident for 4 reasons, Fuller will say it all.</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">David **__Fuller__**: TANF and the Libertarian and Communitarian Prescriptions to Poverty//. Lethbridge Undergraduate Research Journal.// 20**__06__**. Volume 1 Number 1.</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Fuller</span>__**<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> 1: Welfare is required by the society to benefit to the weaker part of the community</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">These very questions a...</span>**__<span style="background-color: white;"> basic human needs.</span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Fuller</span>__**<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> 2: The community functions to help the weak and create morality by unifying the concept </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">Where the libertarians ...</span> **__and collective rights.__**

**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Fuller</span>__**<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> 3: Communitarians are morally incomplete if they don’t fulfill obligations to others</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">Libertarians advocate negative ... focus more on individual</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And, Fuller</span>__**<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> 4: Basic rights increase communities collective economic well being </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt;">Contrary to libertarian ... mitigating socioeconomic hardships.</span>

Thus individuals, as citizens of a community, have a positive obligation to assist the others in need.

__**(Was edited to include more Sandel by the end of Aldine)**__


==Negative== 

Skepticism Neg

Similiar to last month + Harman contractualism evidence


----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Determinism Neg</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I negate the resolution; resolved: Individuals have a moral obligation to assist people in need.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Observation 1: The resolution is a descriptive statement, insofar as it questions whether or not an individual has a specific moral obligation. This is distinct from a prescriptive statement where one may prove we should have a moral obligation. Arguments dealing with comparative value are dismissing the question of the resolution. Thus the affirmative must prove that individuals **__have__** this obligation and the negative must prove that they do not. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The value is Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We create morality, denying this fact denies the original premise of our reasons to do anything; we are the moral actors, we are the moral creators, the reflective self is the source of moral obligations and in turn morality. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Korsgaard</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] explains </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">We do not a... good idea to do.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the value criterion is consistency with being human</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 1: Free will is a pre-requisite to moral obligations</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A moral obligation must be possible for an individual to fulfill, since an obligation to do the impossible is going to unreasonably demand too much of the individual. Along the same lines, the obligation must be agreeable to the individual, since if it is not the individual may not obey it. Thus, free will is a precondition for moral agency and moral obligations. Finney[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">By </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">free will ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **__of moral obligation.__** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 2: Individuals do not have free will and thus no moral obligations</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Our actions are just the culmination of other factors out of our control. Our lack of free will prevent us from having moral obligations, merely legal obligations or communal obligations.</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We do not have free will, Greene and Cohen[[home#_ftn3|[3]]] explain that, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">The problem of ... is an illusion. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Smith[[home#_ftn4|[4]]] continues that,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">The experiment helped t...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> had already decided.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">These few seconds are enough to prove that individuals are not truly making a choice, solely that there is a biologic reason for their actions. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Smith concludes my position,</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">As humans, we ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">University College London.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The negative position is thus: Morality stems from our identity, and our moral obligations from our free will. We do not choose our identity. Our lack of free will prohibits us from biologically having moral obligations, so the resolution is false in so far as individuals cannot have a moral obligation to assist those in need. This does not mean that individuals should not help, but this is not what the resolution asks. The resolution is a false statement. Now lets go to the affirmative.</span>

----
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[1] Christine; [</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Unattractive Kant Expert – Badass Professor of Moral Philosophy at Harvard]. 1993. “The Sources of Normativity.” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Delivered at Clare Hall, Cambridge University. November 16 and 17, 1992.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">**[1]**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">**Charles G. -** </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">**Systematic Theology [1878]** </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">**August 29, 1792 – August 16, 1875) was a leader in the** </span>**<span style="font-size: 21px; line-height: 31px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Great_Awakening|Second Great Awakening]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">**. He has been called** </span>//<span style="font-size: 21px; line-height: 31px;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">The Father of Modern</span>**</span>// **<span style="font-size: 21px; line-height: 31px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revivalism|//Revivalism//]]</span>**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[1] Joshua Greene and Jonathan Cohen – 2004 [Department of Psychology, Center for the Study of Brain, Mind, and Behavior, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA], “For the law, neuroscience changes nothing and everything,” Phil. Trans. R. Soc.Lond. B, November 2004. The Royal Society. MJ. John Lewis. </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[1]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Kerri - Neuroscience vs philosophy: Taking aim at free will - Published online 31 August 2011 [Kerri has a degree in human sciences and another MSc, this time in neuroscience, from the University of Oxford.]</span>
----


=January-February= 

I am just running generic Ks and some simple offs in preparation/relaxation before State and NFL district. I really dont enjoy engaging this topic, so I am distancing myself...

Ks:
Derrida Affirm
Badiou

Off:
Victim
A - The distinction

If i remember anything i will post it.


==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]