=Wake Forest: Asteroid Mining 1AC= 
==Contention 1 is Inherency:== 

==Funding for asteroid mining is insufficient== 
**Speigel 3-25**-11 [Lee, staff writer for AOL News, “NASA Plans 2025 Manned Mission to Asteroid,” [[http://www.aolnews.com/2011/03/25/nasa-plans-2025-manned-mission-to-asteroid/]]]
<span style="font-size: 12px;">First, asteroid materials can provide scientists with clues about how the solar system was created and, in turn, help us learn how life started on Earth. </span>**__Asteroids may__** <span style="font-size: 12px;">also </span>**__become valuable sources of metals, minerals, gases and even water that can be used as future resources. Sending robots vs. humans to an asteroid would certainly be less risky and expensive, but experts need to address the question of whether robots can perform all of the intricate tasks that astronauts would be better trained for__**. <span style="font-size: 12px;">And,</span> **__of course__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">, as with any scientific and enormous technological endeavor, </span>**__there's the cost factor__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. "Despite national advisory council recommendations, congressional mandates and the newly recognized needs for both exploration and planetary defense, </span>**__there is no new funding and, thus, no administrator who wants to get stuck with the bill," said__** <span style="font-size: 12px;">Richard </span>**__Binzel, a planetary science professor__** <span style="font-size: 12px;">at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. </span>**__"The issue is sorely in need of an adult sense of responsibility__**."


==Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase funding for asteroid mining technology and operations.== 


==Advantage 1 is Resource Wars:== 

==A global rare-earth shortage is imminent- the Chinese monopoly makes the market volatile== 
**Connexion Energy 6-8**-11 [Connexion Energy Solutions are electrical and energy-based business service providers, “Rare Earth Metals: The Electrical Industry`s Newest `Issue`,” [[http://www.environmental-expert.com/news/rare-earth-metals-the-electrical-industry-s-newest-issue-242193]]]

<span style="font-size: 9px;">It seems that every year there’s a supply / demand issue our industry is faced with. Last year was the infamous ‘ballast shortage’ due to the world wide electronic component shortage. </span>**__This year we may be seeing a new issue rearing its ugly head; the shortage of 'rare earth' metals. Rare earth metals are a group of 17 elements that are used in a wide range of products we use every day, including iPhones, hard drives, hybrid cars and wind turbines__**.<span style="font-size: 12px;"> If you're a business person and currently not interested in hybrid cars or wind turbines - you might be interested in fluorescent lamps. A major manufacturer of compact fluorescent lamps has recently announced a 15 percent price increase due to the 'increase phosphors used in fluorescent lamps. </span>**__This year the cost of phosphor has gone up nearly 900% and continues to rise'__**<span style="font-size: 12px;">. These phosphors are a byproduct of our rare earth minerals. </span>**__China has become a leading producer of rare earth metals - which leads us to today's situation, where China now produces an enormous 97 percent of the world's rare earth supply__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. As you may have guessed, </span>**__having a single source for the world's need may lead to problems if something happened to that source__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. Well, that is exactly what is happening. What follows here is an article written by Joe Salimando addressing China's control of the rare earth market and its impact on our industry. </span>

==Empirically, even the perception of a rare-element shortage causes global freakout== 
**Parthemore ’11** [Christine, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “Elements of Security: Mitigating the Risks of U.S. Dependence on Critical Minerals,” [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore_1.pdf]]]

<span style="font-size: 12px;">The defense industrial base in the modern era differs greatly from any previous time. Often, actual scarcity is not required for problems to arise, as </span>**__concerns about future scarcities often drive countries to behave as if shortages are occurring__**<span style="font-size: 12px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">The National Academies recently reported, “The risk of supply interruption arguably has increased or, at the very least, has become different from the more traditional threats associated with the more familiar ideas of war and conflict.” 14 During World War I and World War II, for example, governments counted on domestic steel production – and even civilian willingness to contribute scrap materials for reuse and recycling – for tanks and other equipment. In contrast, modern warfare relies on globalized and privatized supply chains rather than a primarily domestic (and often government-run) network. </span>**__Vulnerability to mineral supply disruptions is__** <span style="font-size: 8px;">likewise </span>**__far broader and more complicated than it was in previous eras__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. Policymakers should also consider minerals that play uniquely important roles in the American economy. </span>**__Rare earths__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">, for example, </span>**__are important in petroleum refining, which today enables the smooth functioning of the economy. Looking to the longer term, much concern is turning toward minerals that may see booming demand as the economy develops a greater reliance on energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies, such as the lithium used in advanced batteries and hybrid and electric vehicles. These minerals will directly affect U.S. economic competitiveness, and plans for improving economic growth and job development__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. This vulnerability is not a new concern. Since the early 1900s, </span>**__U.S. defense analysts and national policymakers have worried about U.S. vulnerabilities to supply disruptions of the minerals critical to manufacturing defense systems, from tanks and munitions to communications equipment__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. These concerns were generally heightened in wartime. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) oil embargo and related oil crises of the 1970s further brought into question the assumption that the United States could depend on imports, as it became apparent that </span>**__broader global conditions and political decisions by other countries could dramatically hinder the U.S. ability to openly purchase sufficient commodities at affordable costs. This conclusion was reinforced when supply disruptions and threats of disruptions by apartheid-era South Africa, the hostile Soviet Union and its satellites led to a wave of congressional hearings, government reports and independent analysis of the conditions contributing to U.S. vulnerability__**.

==Resource wars are the greatest threat of extinction- population growth patterns guarantee crisis escalation== 
**Kolankiewicz ‘10** [Leon, environmental scientist and national natural resources planner, masters in environmental planning from U of British Columbia, worked with the US Fish and Wildlife Service, National Marine Fisheries Service, Alaska Dept of Environmental Conservation, U Wash, U New Mexico; Policy Brief #10-1, "From Big to Bigger How Mass Immigration and Population Growth Have Exacerbated America's Ecological Footprint." Progressives for Immigration Reform, [[http://www.progressivesforimmigrationreform.org/2010/03/05/from-big-to-bigger-how-mass-immigration-and-population-growth-have-exacerbated-americas-ecological-footprint/]]]

<span style="font-size: 9px;">As of early 2010, the United States has a rapidly growing population of 308 million.33 In the 1990s, U.S. population expanded by nearly 33 million, the largest single decade of growth in American history since the decennial national censuses began in 1790. The 1990s exceeded even the peak decade of the Baby Boom, the 1950s by nearly five million (Figure 7). The 2001-</span>**__2010__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> decade </span>**__now drawing to a close will approach this record increment__**__.__<span style="font-size: 9px;">Far from coasting to a stop or cessation in growth, U.S. population remains stubbornly and persistently high, and is literally growing with no end in sight. At current growth rates, every year more than three million net new residents are added to the U.S. population.34 The U.S. Census Bureau projects that by 2050, the population of the United States will have grown to 439 million. This is an increase of 131 million, or 43 percent, over our current population of 308 million. In 2050, if the Census Bureau’s current projections come to pass, the U.S. population would still be adding 3.45 million residents a year (more than today, though the annual growth rate will have declined somewhat), and there would be 5.7 million births compared to 4.3 million annual births today.35 Yet </span>**__it is misleading to imply that increased births would be the dominant force behind this massive population growth__**__.__<span style="font-size: 9px;">That is because many of those births would not occur, or at least would not occur in the United States, were it not for the persistently high levels of net immigration that are assumed by the Census Bureau in these projections. In 2050, the Bureau’s projections assume “net international migration” (immigration minus emigration) of 2.05 million, an increase from 1.34 million in 2010. </span>**__This__****__assumption reflects the Bureau’s professional judgment that domestic and international pressures to further increase already high immigration rates will only intensify__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. If the factors behind demographic change are divided between “net natural increase” (births minus deaths) and “net migration” (immigration minus emigration), then in 2050, 41 percent of the annual increment of 3.45 million would be attributable to net natural increase, and 59 percent would be due to net migration. However, even this breakdown understates the decisive influence that the level of immigration has in determining America’s demographic future. </span>**__The full impact of immigration on demographic trends only becomes apparent when the U.S.-born descendents of immigrants are accounted for because, after all, these U.S. births would not have occurred but for the prior acts of migration__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> by eventual parents that made them possible. </span>**__When births to immigrants are accounted for, demographers at the Pew Research Center calculated__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">recently that: If current trends continue, the population of the United States will rise to 438 millionin 2050, from 296 million in 2005, and 82 percent of the increase will be due to immigrants arriving from 2005 to 2050 and their U.S.-born descendants.36 [emphasis added] Figures 8-10 graphically illustrate the powerful role of immigration policy in shaping current and future U.S. demographic trends. Figure 8 shows U.S. population growth from 1790 to 1970; the steepening curve, one characterized by larger and larger increments over time is a shape characteristic of all phenomena experiencing exponential growth. If, however, the 1970 levels of demographic components (net immigration, fertility or birth rates, and mortality rates) had been maintained over the decades that followed, the growth trajectory would have appeared more like that of the curve in Figure 9, rather than the much steeper curve in Figure 8. At the time of the first celebration of Earth Day in 1970, young environmentalists who had just finished reading Paul Ehrlich’s best-selling 1968 book The Population Bomb and listening to one of Earth Day Founder Senator Gaylord Nelson’s moving speeches believed whole-heartedly in the cause and necessity of U.S. and global population stabilization. They endorsed the view of popular cartoonist Walt Kelly’s character Pogo that, “We have met the enemy and he is us” (a play on words of the famous line by Commodore Perry: “We have met the enemy, and they are ours”). In other words, the more of “us” there are, the more “enemies,” or at least environmental burdens Mother Earth faces. If this generation had been able to realize its vision of slowing and then stopping U.S. population growth and reining in the environmental degradation it caused, the trajectory might have looked something like that of the curve in Figure 9. Growth would have tapered off and America’s population would never have hit 300 million. Instead, because of the rapidly rising wave of immigration unleashed by the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, Americans and their environment are facing the grim, and utterly unsustainable, future of ever-greater demographic pressures represented by Figure 10. What bearing do these “inconvenient truths” have on America’s Ecological Footprint? In a nutshell — everything. Current immigration levels are enlarging the already enormous U.S. Ecological Footprint and ecological deficit. With the U.S. population booming by more than 10 percent a decade, the only way to maintain — much less reduce the current, unacceptable size of our EF is to reduce our per capita consumption every decade by more than 10 percent — not just for one or five decades, but indefinitely, for as long as population growth continues. One doesn’t have to be a physicist or a political scientist to recognize that an achievement of this magnitude would be technically and politically unrealistic, if not impossible. America is already in ecological overshoot, and massive population growth driven by high immigration rates only serves to exacerbate the situation. Figure 11 shows current trends with respect to the Ecological Footprint and Biocapacity of the United States from 1961 through 2006.37 As is evident from the crossing lines in this graph, America’s EF first surpassed its biocapacity in the late 1960s, just prior to the first Earth Day. Since then the gap or ecological deficit has only continued to widen. While the addition of each new American does not necessarily increase our per capita or per person (as opposed to our aggregate) EF — only increased per capita resource consumption and CO2 generation does that, it does directly decrease our per capita biocapacity, and thus increases our ecological deficit. Population growth does this in two ways. First,</span>**__given a fixed biocapacity__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> — that is, a land base that is demonstrably finite and constant, with fixed maximum acreages of potential cropland, grazing land, forestland, and fishing grounds — </span>**__it is a simple mathematical reality that adding more people__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> who depend on this ecologically productive land base </span>**__reduces per capita biocapacity__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">. Second, </span>**__the more than three million new Americans added every year require space and area in which to live, work, play, shop, and attend school__**__<span style="font-size: 19px;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8px;">As open space is converted into the “built-up land” category, some combination of forestland, cropland, and grazing land is inevitably developed. (In the 1950s, Orange County, California, home to Disneyland, was touted by developers as “Smog Free Orange County,” but by the 1990s, after four decades of relentless sprawl development to accommodate Southern California’s multiplying millions, it became known as “Orange Free Smog County”). In this way, our country’s biocapacity is steadily and inexorably diminished by a growing population. The USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service’s (NRCS’s) National Resources Inventory (NRI) estimated that the United States lost 44 million acres of cropland, 12 million acres of pastureland, and 11 million acres of rangeland from 1982 to 1997, for a total loss to our agricultural land base of 67 million acres over this 15-year period.38 (One explanation of the much higher acreage of lost cropland than pastureland and rangeland was that a larger fraction of the cropland acreage was not “lost” per se, but deliberately “retired” from active production into the so-called Conservation Reserve Program or CRP, a program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Farm Service Agency. These were lands of marginal quality and high erodibility, lands on which modern, intensive agriculture is unsustainable). All 49 states inventoried lost cropland. Overall cropland losses continued in the next NRI published in 2007.39 The impacts of the loss of this land extend beyond agriculture. The USDA has estimated that each person added to the U.S. population requires slightly more than one acre of land for urbanization and highways.40 Clearly, more land is required as more people are added to our population. A comparison of NRI acreage — 25 million acres of newly developed land over the 1982-1997 period and 67 million acres of agricultural land lost shows that development per se is not responsible for all or even half of agricultural land loss. Arable land is also subject to other natural and manmade phenomena such as soil erosion (from both water and wind), salinization, and waterlogging that can rob its fertility, degrade its productivity and eventually force its retirement or increase its dependency on ever greater quantities of costly inputs like (fossil-fuel derived) nitrogen fertilizers. Arguably, however, much of these losses are due to over-exploitation by intensive agricultural practices needed to constantly raise agricultural productivity (yield per acre) in order to provide ever more food for America’s and the world’s growing populations and meat-rich diets. Thus, the potent combination of relentless development and land degradation from soil erosion and other factors is reducing America’s productive agricultural land base even as the demands on that same land base from a growing population are increasing. If the rates of agricultural land loss that have prevailed in recent years were to continue to 2050, the nation will have lost 53 million of its remaining 377 million acres of cropland, or 14 percent, even as the U.S. population grows by 43 percent from 308 million to 440 million.41 Continuing on to 2100, the discrepancy between booming population numbers and declining cropland acreage widens even further (Figure 12). The Census Bureau’s “middle series” projection (made in the year 2000) is 571 million, more than a doubling of U.S. population in 2000.42 (The “highest serious” projection was 1.2 billion, and actual growth since these projections were made has been between the middle and highest series). If the same rate of cropland loss were to continue, the United States would lose approximately 106 million acres of its remaining 377 million acres of cropland, or nearly 30 percent. Cropland per capita, that is, the acreage of land to grow grains and other crops for each resident, would decline from 1.4 acres in 1997 to 0.47 acres in 2100, a 66 percent reduction. If this occurs, biotechnology will need to work miracles to raise yields per acre in order to maintain the sort of diet Americans have come to expect. These</span>**__ominous, divergent trends__** <span style="font-size: 11px;">— an increasing population and declining arable land, have actually </span>**__led some scientists to think__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">the unthinkable: that one day </span>**__America may no longer be able to feed itself, let alone boast a food surplus for export__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">to the world. In the 1990s, Cornell University agricultural and food scientists David and Marcia Pimentel and Mario Giampietro of the Istituto Nazionale della Nutrizione in Rome, Italy, argued that by approximately 2025, the United States would most likely cease to be a food exporter, and that food grown in this country would be needed for domestic consumption. These findings suggest that by 2050, the amount of arable land per capita may have dropped to the point that, “the diet of the average American will, of necessity, include more grains, legumes, tubers, fruits and vegetables, and significantly less animal products.”43 While this might, in fact, constitute a healthier diet both for terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems and for many calorically and cholesterol-challenged Americans, it would also represent a significant loss of dietary choice. As nations get wealthier, they tend to “move up the food chain” in the phrase of the Earth Policy Institute’s Lester Brown, that is they consume higher trophic level, more ecologically demanding and damaging meat and dairy products, but were these predictions to hold true, Americans, for better or worse, would be moving in the opposite direction. From 2005 to 2006, the U.S. per capita ecological deficit widened from 10.9 to 11.3 acres, continuing the long-term trend depicted in Figure 11. Assuming the Census Bureau’s official population projections for 2050 actually do happen, the U.S. population would be 43 percent larger than at present. Even if there were no further increase in the U.S. per capita EF, which is, as can be seen from the 45-year trend in Figure 11, a rather generous assumption, a 43 percent increase in the U.S. population would correspond to a further 43 percent reduction in biocapacity per capita, even without the types of continuing land and resource degradation just discussed above for cropland. The 2006 U.S. biocapacity was 10.9 global acres (ga) per capita. By 2050, if current U.S. demographic trends and projections hold, this will have been reduced to 6.2 ga per capita. If the per capita American EF of consumption were to remain at the 2006 value of 22.3 ga, the ecological deficit in 2050 would increase to 16.1 ga per capita. In essence,</span>**__if we American “Bigfeet” do not opt for a different demographic path than the one we are treading now, Ecological Footprint analysis indicates unequivocally that we will continue plodding ever deeper into the forbidden zone of Ecological Overshoot, trampling our prospects for a sustainable future__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">. Incidentally, </span>**__we would also be trampling the survival prospects for many__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">hundreds of endangered </span>**__species__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">with which we share our country. These birds, mammals, fish, amphibians, reptiles, butterflies, mussels, and other taxa are menaced with extinction by our aggressive exploitation of nearly every ecological niche, nook, and cranny. In nature, no organism in overshoot remains there for long. Sooner or later, </span>**__ecosystem and/or population collapse ensues__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Are we humans, because of our unique scientific acumen, immune from the laws of nature that dictate the implacable terms of existence to all other species on the planet? Our political, economic, and cultural elites seem to think so, and en masse, we certainly act so. Yet ironically, </span>**__many scientists themselves believe otherwise: that all-too-human hubris, unless checked by collective wisdom and self-restraint, will prove to be our undoing, and that civilization as we know it may unravel__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">.44</span>

==Even the signal of the plan solves resource conflict- the plan builds the foundation for lasting peace== 
**Collins and Autino ‘10** [Patrick Collins, expert in the economics of energy supply from space and Adriano Autino, Professor of Life & Environmental Science at Azabu University and Systems Engineer at Andromeda Inc., Italy, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562]
<span style="font-size: 8px;">WORLD PEACE AND PRESERVATION OF HUMAN CIVILISATION </span>**__The major source of__** social friction, including **__international friction, has surely always been unequal access to resources__**. People fight to control the valuable resources on and under the land, and in and under the sea. **__The natural resources of Earth are limited in quantity__**, and economically accessible resources even more so. **__As the population grows, and demand grows for a higher material standard of living, industrial activity grows exponentially. The threat of resources becoming scarce has led to the concept of "Resource Wars"__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. Having begun long ago with wars to control the gold and diamonds of Africa and South America, and oil in the Middle East, the current phase is at centre stage of world events today [27]. </span>**__A particular danger of "resource wars" is that__**, if the general public can be persuaded to support them, **__they may become impossible to stop as resources become increasingly scarce__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. Many commentators have noted the similarity of the language of US and UK government advocates of "war on terror" to the language of the novel "1984" which describes a dystopian future of endless, fraudulent war in which citizens are reduced to slaves. Expansion into near-Earth Space is the Only Alternative to Endless "Resource Wars" </span>**__As an alternative to the "resource wars" already devastating many countries today, opening access to the unlimited resources of near-Earth space could clearly facilitate world peace and security__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. This is acknowledged by the U.S. National Space Security Office, which started its 2007 report on the potential of space-based solar power: "Expanding human populations and declining natural resources are potential sources of local and strategic conflict in the 21st Century, and many see energy as the foremost threat to national security" [28]. It ended the report: "Considering the timescales that are involved, and the exponential growth of population and resource pressures within that same strategic period, it is imperative that this work for "drilling up" vs. drilling down for energy security begins immediately" [28]. Although the use of extra-terrestrial resources on a substantial scale may still be some decades away, </span>**__it is important to recognise that simply acknowledging its feasibility using known technology is the surest way of ending the threat of resource wars__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. That is, if it is assumed that the resources available for human use are limited to those on Earth, then it can be argued that resource wars are inescapable [15, 27]. </span>**__If__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">, by contrast, </span>**__it is assumed that the resources of space are economically accessible, this not only eliminates the need for resource wars, it can also preserve the benefits of civilisation which are being eroded today by "resource war-mongers", most notably the governments of the "Anglo-Saxon" countries and their "neo-con" advisers__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. It is also worth noting that the $1 trillion that these have already committed to the Iraq war is far more than the investment needed to access space resources. Industrial and financial groups which profit from monopolistic control of terrestrial supplies of various natural resources, like those which profit from wars, have an economic interest in protecting their profitable situation. However, these groups' continuing profits are justified neither by capitalism nor by democracy: they could be preserved only by maintaining the pretence that use of space resources is not feasible, and by preventing the development of low-cost space travel. </span>**__Once the feasibility of low-cost space travel is understood, "resource wars" are clearly idiotic as well as tragic__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. A visiting extra-terrestrial would be pityingly amused at the foolish antics of homo sapiens using long-range rockets to fight each other over dwindling terrestrial resources - rather than using the same rockets to travel in space and have all the resources they need! </span>
== == 
==China will cut off tons of rare earth exports by 2012- this independently threatens extinction== 
<span class="Underline">**Adams ‘10** [Mike Adams, Editor of NaturalNews, January 26, 2010, “Global supply of rare earth elements could be wiped out by 2012,” online: http://www.naturalnews.com/028028_rare_earth_elements_mining.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9px;">It's the bubble you've probably never heard of: </span><span class="Underline">**The rare earth bubble**</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">.And </span><span class="Underline">**it's due to pop in 2012, potentially devastating the industries of western nations that depend on these rare elements**. </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">What industries are those? </span><span class="Underline">**The automobile industry uses tens of thousands of tons of rare earth elements** </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">each year, and advanced military technology depends on these elements, too**.** </span><span class="Underline">**Lots of "green" technologies depend on them, including wind turbines**</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">, low-energy light bulbs and hybrid car batteries. In fact, </span><span class="Underline">**much of western civilization depends on rare earth elements** </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">such as terbium, lanthanum and neodymium. So what's the problem with these rare elements? 97 percent of the world's supply comes from mines in China, and </span><span class="Underline">**China is prepared to simply stop exporting these strategic elements to the rest of the world by 2012. If that happens, the western world will be crippled by the collapse of available rare earth elements. Manufacturing of everything from computers and electronics to farm machinery will grind to a halt. Electronics will disappear from the shelves and prices for manufactured goods that depend on these rare elements will skyrocket. These** </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">17 rare earth elements (REE) -- all of which are metals -- </span><span class="Underline">**are strategic resources upon which entire nations are built**</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">. In many ways, they are similar to rubber -- a resource so valuable and important to the world that many experts call it the "fourth most important natural resource in the world," right after water, steel and oil. Without rubber, you couldn't drive your car to work or water your lawn. </span><span class="Underline">**Many medical technologies would cease to work and virtually all commercial construction would grind to a halt**</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">. Many of the strategic battles fought in World War II were fought, in fact, over control of rubber, most of which now comes through Singapore and its surrounding regions (Malaysia and Indonesia). Global shortage of Rare Earth Elements coming... Now, </span><span class="Underline">**by threatening to cut off the world's supply of rare earth elements, China appears to be attempting to monopolize this extremely important strategic resource**</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">. According to information received by The Independent, by 2012 China may cease all exports of rare earth elements, reserving them for its own economic expansion. An article in that paper quotes REE expert Jack Lifton as saying, "</span><span class="Underline">**A real crunch is coming. In America, Britain and elsewhere we have not yet woken up to the fact that there is an urgent need to secure the supply of rare earths from sources outside China**</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">." And yet virtually no one has heard of this problem! People are familiar with peak oil, global warming, ocean acidification, the national debt and the depletion of fossil water, but </span><span class="Underline">**very few are aware of the looming crisis in rare metals... upon which much of western civilization rests**.</span>

==Chinese REM dominance causes a trade war with the US== 
<span class="Underline">**Bloomberg News ’10** [Pentagon Loses Control of Bombs to China Metal Monopoly By Peter Robison and Gopal Ratnam - Sep 29, 2010 3:49 PM PT. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/pentagon-losing-control-of-afghanistan-bombs-to-china-s-neodymium-monopoly.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">“The Pentagon has been incredibly negligent,” said Peter Leitner, who was a senior strategic trade adviser at the Defense Department from 1986 to 2007. “</span><span class="Underline">**There are plenty of early warning signs that China will use its leverage over these materials as a weapon.” China may already be flexing its muscles amid a diplomatic spat with its East Asian neighbor Japan. China last week imposed a “de facto” ban on exports to Japan of the metals used in liquid crystal displays and laptop computers**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, Japanese Economy Minister Banri Kaieda said Sept. 28. That followed Japan’s detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose ship collided with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels. Japan later released the man. No such ban exists, China’s Ministry of Commerce spokesman Chen Rongkai said. New Factor “What it does, clearly, is bring a new factor into the consideration of supply of critical materials,” said Dudley Kingsnorth, director of Industrial Minerals Co. of Australia, a forecaster in Perth. </span><span class="Underline">**The U.S. Congress’s investigative arm, the Government Accountability Office, in April warned of “vulnerabilities” for the military because of the lack of domestic rare-earth supplies**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. The House of Representatives Armed Services Committee will hold a hearing in October, the same month a Pentagon report on how to secure future supplies of the metals is due. “The department has long recognized that rare-earth elements are important raw material inputs for many defense systems and that many companies in our base have expressed concern regarding the future availability of the refined products of these elements,” Brett Lambert, director of the Pentagon’s Office of Industrial Policy, said. While two rare-earth projects are scheduled to ramp up production by the end of 2012 -- one owned by Molycorp Inc. in California and another by Lynas Corp. in Australia -- the GAO says it may take 15 years to rebuild a U.S. manufacturing supply chain. China makes virtually all the metals refined from rare earths, the agency says. The elements are also needed for hybrid-electric cars and wind turbines, one reason supply may fall short of demand in 2014 even with the new mines, according to Kingsnorth of Imcoa. Doggy Day Care Just how far U.S. manufacturing has waned is apparent at a factory in Valparaiso, Indiana, where dogs skitter across a bare concrete shop floor, their nails clicking. This brick plant on Elm Street once made 80 percent of the rare-earth magnets in laser-guided U.S. smart bombs, according to U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, a Democrat from Indiana. In 2003, the plant’s owner shifted work to China, costing 230 jobs. Now the plant houses Coco’s Canine Cabana, a doggy day care the current tenants started to supplement sagging income from their machine shop. On most days dogs outnumber the 15 metalworkers, said Kathy DeFries, co-owner of Excel Machine Technologies Inc. “When things got slow for manufacturing, we had this big empty shop floor,” said DeFries, nuzzling a floppy-eared puppy. “It’s a great stress reliever.” Expensive to Mine The rare earths are chemically similar elements, with names such as yttrium and dysprosium. China has the largest share of worldwide reserves, about 36 percent, and the U.S. is second, with 13 percent, the U.S. Geological Survey says. While the elements aren’t rare, they’re less frequently found in profitable concentrations, expensive for Western producers to extract and often laced with radioactive elements. China produced 120,000 tons, or 97 percent, of the world’s 124,000-ton supply last year, according to the GAO. Half of that came from Baotou, said Kingsnorth. The raw elements have many applications. Neodymium is used by Chinese companies including magnet makers, who sell to U.S. suppliers of defense contractors. Export Quotas Export quotas and taxes for overseas buyers that the GAO says can reach 25 percent are pushing up prices of elements even in relatively large supply. For example, the cost of a kilogram of samarium powder, needed for the navigation system of General Dynamics’ M1A2 Abrams tank, jumped to $34 in early September, from $4.50 in June, according to U.K. researcher Metal Pages Ltd. </span><span class="Underline">**The U.S. and the European Union consider Chinese restrictions on a range of raw goods part of a strategy to draw in higher-paying manufacturing jobs by making them cheaper to buy inside China. The export taxes violate World Trade Organization rules because China pledged to limit them to 84 product categories when it joined the trade group in 2001**, said Terence Stewart, managing partner of Washington law firm Stewart & Stewart. In 2010, China had taxes on 329, he said. **The U.S. and the EU filed a WTO complaint over raw materials including bauxite and coke last year**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. China’s commerce minister, Chen Deming, said Aug. 28 that the policies comply with WTO rules. Some manufacturers in China are lobbying the ministry to back off the latest quotas because a dispute will disrupt the market, said Constantine Karayannopoulos, chief executive officer of Toronto-based Neo Material Technologies Inc., which has rare-earth production facilities in China. Risk of Trade War </span><span class="Underline">**“It was very sudden and didn’t give the industry any time to adjust,” he said. “This quota action could risk a trade war****<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">” For Western companies, China’s policies are creating the real “unobtanium,” the fictional mineral fought over in James Cameron’s 2009 film “Avatar.” It’s taking as long as 10 weeks to get neodymium magnets, double the previous wait time, said Joe Schrantz, group supply chain manager at Moog Inc. in East Aurora, New York. He said </span><span class="Underline">**the company buys hundreds of thousands of magnets a year to make motors for cars, trucks and weapons including Raytheon’s AMRAAM** </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">-- or Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile -- </span><span class="Underline">**and Boeing’s Joint Direct Attack Munition, a tail fin kit for making precision-guided “smart” bombs out of ordinary weapons**.</span>

==US-China war causes extinction== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Strait Times, 2000</span>, <span style="font-size: 9px;">6/25/2000, l/n</span>

__THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China__. <span style="font-size: 11px;">If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then</span> __a full-scale war becomes unavoidable__. __Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">-- horror of horrors --</span> __raise the possibility of **a nuclear war**__. <span style="font-size: 11px;">Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore.</span> __If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire__<span style="font-size: 11px;">. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order.</span> __With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe’s political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, </span>__hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase__. <span style="font-size: 9px;">Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -- truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its “non first use” principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass,</span> __we would see **the** **destruction of civilisation**. There **would be no victors in such a war**__. <span style="font-size: 11px;">While the prospect of a</span> **__nuclear Armaggedon__** <span style="font-size: 11px;">over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it </span>__cannot be ruled out entirely__, <span style="font-size: 11px;">for </span>__China puts sovereignty above everything else__.

==REM shortage risks a war between China and Japan== 
**Leeb ’10** [Dr. Stephen, recognized authority on the stock market, macroeconomic trends and commodities, especially oil and precious metals, founder of the Leeb Group, which publishes a line of financial newsletters, Head of the Advisory Board of Leor Exploration & Production LLC, “The First Volley in the Resource War,” Sept. 28, [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/227412-the-first-volley-in-the-resource-war]]]

**__Most of the world's concentrated rare earth deposits being mined today are located in China. Rare earth mines in North America and other places have either never been developed or have been shut down because they could not compete with China's lower production costs__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. As you can imagine, Japanese high-tech industries require rare earth elements as raw materials. It's very difficult to produce electronics, especially those involving magnets or batteries – such as the Toyota Prius hybrid car –without them. With China supplying 97% of the world's rare earth elements, Japan cannot afford to lose trade relations with China. So it's no surprise that, following the threat of an embargo, Japan released the fishing boat captain. We think </span>**__the incident is the first skirmish in what may be a protracted period of mercantilist activities – if not an all-out war for resources. The reason Japan and China both insist asserting sovereignty over the particular stretch of the East China Sea is that the area is rich in undersea natural gas deposits – another vital resource__**. Of course **__these days__**, **__demand for virtually every natural resource used by industrial societies is close to exceeding what's available__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">. Even iron ore supplies are being stretched thin by the massive construction efforts taking place in the developing world, and especially China. Of course, just mining and processing iron into steel requires large amounts of energy and other resources, which are consequently suffering from supply constraints as well. The squeeze is even greater for copper, which is less plentiful than iron but just as essential for construction and energy transmission. </span>**__In order to secure the resources they need in coming years, nations around the world are likely to undergo a New Age of Mercantilism in which they try to hoard their natural resources so they can continue to produce more valuable exports__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">. (And this is where investors who have secured a stake in resources will reap handsome rewards.) </span>

==That goes nuclear== 
**Lim ‘05** [Robyn Lim, 1/6/2005. Professor of International Relations at Nanzan University in Japan. “Geostrategic Trends in Asia,” http://www.icasinc.org/2005/2005l/2005lrxl.html]

<span style="font-size: 8px;">For example, </span>**__the hubris on display in Beijing may lead Russia and Japan to sink their differences in order to align against a "rising" China that threatens them both__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. It would not be the first time Russia and Japan have resolved their differences, the precedent having been set in the period from 1907 to 1916. Indeed, </span>**__recent visits by senior Japanese army officers to the Russian Far East would have any old geopolitiker sniffing the breeze__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. As noted, </span>**__the history of Whales 3: Elephants 0 stands as a warning of the difficulties that China faces in managing its "peaceful" rise. It is all starting to look redolent of what happened in Germany early last century when an arrogant and foolish young Kaiser sacked that great helmsman Bismarck__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Wanting too much too soon, the Kaiser soon provoked the formation of the very coalition of the flanking powers (France and Russia) that Bismarck had laboured so hard to prevent. </span>**__That soon led into a disastrous war__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Currently, those advising Deng's successors are said to be studying this history. But </span>**__are they learning the right lessons? If not, it will be a familiar story of greed, hubris and miscalculation leading to war. And this time with nuclear weapons as part of the equation__**.


==Advantage 2 is Military Superiority:== 

==US military dominance hinges on stable supplies of rare-earth elements- we’re on the brink of losing our edge== 
**Hsu 4-14**-11 [Jeremy, Innovation News Daily senior writer, “U.S. Military Supply of Rare Earth Elements Not Secure,” [[http://www.technewsdaily.com/us-military-supply-of-rare-earth-elements-not-secure-0430/]]]

**__U.S. military technologies such as guided bombs and night vision rely heavily upon rare earth elements supplied by China, and rebuilding an independent U.S. supply chain to wean the country off that foreign dependency could take up to 15 years__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">, according to a new report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO). Both "light" and "heavy" rare earth elements represent a family of minerals found in commercial products ranging from TV displays to cell phones, as well as green technologies such as hybrid electric motors and wind turbines. For example, the rare earth element neodymium is very magnetic and is used in everything from computer hard drives to wind turbines and Toyota's Prius hybrid car. The GAO report – a draft of which was obtained by TechNewsDaily – was meant to look at national security risks that could arise from dependency upon rare earth elements. </span>"**__Defense systems will likely continue to depend on rare earth materials, based on their life cycles and lack of effective substitutes__**," the GAO reported. **__New rare earth mines in the U.S., Australia, Canada and South Africa won't start up until at least 2014, based on industry estimates__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. The GAO report listed rare earth deposits in states that include California, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Missouri and Utah. But looking beyond the GAO report reveals that </span>**__many U.S. deposits lack the "heavy" rare earth elements critical for much of today's technological innovations. Another cause for concern: Chinese corporations have also begun investing in mining companies that hold certain U.S. deposits__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. The U.S. once supplied most of the global supply of rare earth elements, and also manufactured rare earth products such as the neodymium magnets. But rare earth processing has largely shifted to China since the 1990s. Even if the U.S. resumes mining its rare earth deposits and begins converting rare earth ore into oxides, it lacks the facilities for converting rare earth oxides into refined metals. China has set quotas limiting rare earth exports and added on export taxes, despite supplying as much as 97 percent of the world's rare earth oxides. It even warned in an official plan for 2009-2015 that its own industrial demand might force it to stop exporting entirely. </span>

==<span class="Underline">Military dominance is critical to prevent rival lashout and global war</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**Spencer ’00** [Jack, Research Fellow at Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, “The Facts About Military Readiness”, Heritage Foundation, September 15th, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-Readiness]]]</span>

<span class="Underline">**America's national security requirements dictate that the armed forces must be prepared to defeat groups of adversaries in a given war**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. America, as the sole remaining superpower, has many enemies. Because attacking America or its interests alone would surely end in defeat for a single nation, these enemies are likely to form alliances. Therefore, basing readiness on American military superiority over any single nation has little saliency. The evidence indicates that the U.S. armed forces are not ready to support America's national security requirements. Moreover, regarding the broader capability to defeat groups of enemies, military readiness has been declining. The National Security Strategy, the U.S. official statement of national security objectives,3 concludes that the United States "must have the capability to deter and, if deterrence fails, defeat large-scale, cross-border aggression in two distant theaters in overlapping time frames."4 According to some of the military's highest-ranking officials, however, the United States cannot achieve this goal. Commandant of the Marine Corps General James Jones, former Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jay Johnson, and Air Force Chief of Staff General Michael Ryan have all expressed serious concerns about their respective services' ability to carry out a two major theater war strategy.5 Recently retired Generals Anthony Zinni of the U.S. Marine Corps and George Joulwan of the U.S. Army have even questioned America's ability to conduct one major theater war the size of the 1991 Gulf War.6 </span><span class="Underline">**Military readiness is vital because declines in America's military readiness signal to the rest of the world that the United States is not prepared to defend its interests**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. Therefore, potentially </span><span class="Underline">**hostile nations will be more likely to lash out against American allies and interests, inevitably leading to U.S. involvement in combat. A high state of military readiness is more likely to deter potentially hostile nations from acting aggressively in regions of vital national interest, thereby preserving peace**.</span>

==Multiple global threats make military readiness crucial- otherwise terrorism, proliferation and economic turmoil are inevitable== 
<span class="Underline">**Morrissey ’10** [Michael, Lieutenant Colonel, Commander of 5th Battalion, 5th Air Defense Artillery, “Restoring balance through reintegration”, Fires, January 1st, http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Restoring+balance+through+reintegration.-a0222548266]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The current war is the longest the U.S. has conducted with an all-volunteer force. Conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan continue as the president recently announced the decision to send an additional 34,000 troops to Afghanistan. Beyond Iraq, Afghanistan,</span><span class="Underline"> **well-known threats from global terrorism, China and North Korea, there are also insidious dangers to the U.S. that threaten to destabilize the security of national interests in ways that would require substantial U.S. military involvement beyond the current commitment. They include unconventional threats; political extremism, toxic anti-American populism, nuclear proliferation and expanding political and economic vulnerability**.</span>

==Terrorism causes extinction== 
**Sid-Ahmed ‘04** [Mohamad, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|**http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm**]], 26 August - 1 September 2004]

__What would be the consequences of a nuclear attack by terrorists? Even if it fails, it would further exacerbate the negative features of the new and frightening world in which we are now living. Societies would close in on themselves, police measures would be stepped up at the expense of human rights, tensions between civilisations and religions would rise and ethnic conflicts would proliferate. It would also speed up the arms race and develop the awareness that a different type of world order is imperative if humankind is to survive. But the still more critical scenario **is if the attack succeeds**. This could **lead to a third world war**, from which no one will emerge victorious. Unlike a conventional war which ends when one side triumphs over another, this war will be without winners and losers. When **nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers**__.

==Proliferation causes global nuclear war== 
**Kissinger ‘09** [Henry, Our Nuclear Nightmare: As nations like Iran and North Korea seek to develop atomic weapons, the chances of a calamity are rising dramatically. Here's how to lower them. NEWSWEEK, Feb 7, 2009 http://www.newsweek.com/id/183673/page/1

<span style="font-size: 12px;">But the end of the Cold War produced a paradoxical result. The threat of nuclear war between the superpowers has essentially disappeared. But </span>**__the spread of technology__**<span style="font-size: 12px;">—especially the technology to produce peaceful nuclear energy—</span>**__has vastly increased the feasibility of acquiring a nuclear-weapons capability. The sharpening of ideological dividing lines and the persistence of unresolved regional conflicts have magnified the incentives to acquire nuclear weapons, especially by rogue states or non-state actors__**<span style="font-size: 12px;">. The calculations of mutual insecurity that produced restraint during the Cold War do not apply with anything like the same degree to the new entrants in the nuclear field, and even less so to the non-state actors. Proliferation of nuclear weapons has become an overarching strategic problem for the contemporary world. </span>**__Any further spread of nuclear weapons multiplies the possibilities of nuclear confrontation; it magnifies the danger of diversion, deliberate or unauthorized. And if the development of weapons of mass destruction spreads into Iran and continues in North Korea—in the face of all ongoing negotiations—the incentives for other countries to follow the same path could become overwhelming__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. How will publics react if they suffer or even observe casualties in the tens of thousands from a nuclear attack? Will they not ask two questions: What could we have done to prevent this? What shall we do now so that it can never happen again? </span>

==Decline of US primacy causes multiple nuclear wars== 
Zalmay <span style="font-size: 13px;">Khalilzad, 2011</span> (former US ambassador to the United Nations, National Review, “The Economy and National Security.” February 8, 2011. Online. Accessed May 4, 2011 at http://www.nationalreview.com /articles/259024/economy-and- national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1)
<span class="Underline">**We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth**</span>. <span style="font-size: 11px;">Even though countries such as China, India, and Brazil have profound political, social, demographic, and economic problems, their economies are growing faster than ours, and this could alter the global distribution of power. These trends could in the long term produce a multi-polar world. If U.S. policymakers fail to act and other powers continue to grow, it is not a question of whether but when a new international order will emerge. </span><span class="Underline">**The closing of the gap between the United States and its rivals could intensify geopolitical competition among major powers, increase incentives for local powers to play major powers against one another, and undercut our will to preclude or respond to international crises because of the higher risk of escalation. The stakes are high. In modern history, the longest period of peace among the great powers has been the era of U.S. leadership. By contrast, multi-polar systems have been unstable, with their competitive dynamics resulting in frequent crises and major wars among the great powers. Failures of multi-polar international systems produced both world wars**. </span>


==Contention 3 is Solvency:== 

==Increased funding for asteroid mining solves rare element shortages and technological barriers== 
**Forgan and Elvis 3-29**-11 [Duncan H. Forgan and Martin Elvis, Institute for Astronomy, University of Edinburgh & Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, “Extrasolar Asteroid Mining as Forensic Evidence for Extraterrestrial Intelligence,” [[http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/arxiv/pdf/1103/1103.5369v1.pdf]]]

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Planets have ﬁnite natural resources. This truism has become painfully apparent to mankind in recent decades, through examples such as shrinking biodiversity and the increasing challenges facing engineers and geoscientists attempting to extract fossil fuels from the Earth. All life acts as consumers at some level, but the level of consumption is typically regulated through population control and other pressures introduced by the ecosystem . Advances in technology have allowed humans to circumvent these controls, with the effect that humans have vastly increased their population, placing strains on local resources. </span>**__There has__** <span style="font-size: 9px;">also </span>**__been a continued increase per capita in consumption of precious metals for technologies such as computers, mobile phones and the infrastructures which enable them to function__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. The proposed green technologies of the future, such as hydrogen fuel cells and CO2 scrubbers, will only enhance this need for already rare resources (Elshkaki & Van Der Voet, 2006; Schuiling & Krijgsman, 2006). </span>**__Such resources can be found in the asteroids__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Meteoritic analysis (Kargel, 1994), suggests that large quantities of gold, platinum and other precious metals exist in the asteroids of the Solar System, as well as large amounts of other elements such as iron, nickel, magnesium and silicon. He concludes that </span>**__successful operations at modest mining rates could increase the total production rate of some materials by a factor of 10__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. By applying simple empirical models (where market value scales as the square root of production rate), approximate threefold decreases in price can also be expected, over timescales of a few decades. Indeed, </span>**__if the supply of precious metals such as platinum is to continue to meet technological demands, asteroid mining may become essential within the coming century__** <span style="font-size: 9px;">(Elshkaki & Van Der Voet, 2006). Besides these industrially driven arguments, SETI scientists are driven by the possibility of detecting extraterrestrial intelligence by evidence of their activities in the Outer Solar System and the asteroids (Papagiannis, 1978, 1995). Developing asteroid mining technology for commercial reasons will certainly assist the implementation of studies of this nature. </span>**__Humans have not begun asteroid mining primarily for reasons of political economy__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. While the resources still exist in affordable quantities on Earth, governments lack a good short-term economic case to attempt dangerous missions at high cost to bring back what would initially be modest quantities of raw materials. As Hickman (1999) observes, asteroid miners should not expect immediate investment from private investors either. </span>**__While the potential return from successful, properly matured asteroid mining missions is very large, the level of capital required up front for any large-scale space project is also very large__** <span style="font-size: 11px;">- </span>**__Schmitt__** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(1997) optimistically </span>**__estimates a sum of around $15bn for general commercial space enterprise__** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(assuming fusion technologies based on lunar 3 He become proﬁtable, and not considering the problems presented by the current ﬁnancial landscape). Further to this, the maturation time period (before proﬁts can be generated) is too long, i.e. greater than 5 years. Other large-scale space projects (such as Martian colonisation) are equally unappealing for investors looking for returns on their investments within a decade - Hickman (1999) gives a simpliﬁed example which shows that if Mars can be terraformed in less than a thousand years, even a modest rate of interest on an initial loan requires Martian real estate to be extremely expensive. While there might not be a good short-term economic case for governments to fund TAM missions, there are long-term economic and political motivations (see Gerlach 2005 for a thorough review). </span>**__If the initial high capital barrier can be overcome, and proﬁts can be generated, then manufacturing future technologies will become much cheaper as the precious metals become less precious. The expertise gained by designing and undertaking TAM missions can then be brought to bear on other challenges in space exploration__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Given the hazards involved in TAM for atmosphere-breathing species, it is reasonable to assume that much of the process will become automated and autonomous, ushering in a new era of robotics with advanced decision-making and goal-seeking software (which has obvious implications for post-biological evolution). With a large surplus of raw materials and a skilled robotic workforce, large, permanent space habitats can be constructed, for example in geostationary orbit. This may allow the construction of the long-considered “space elevator” (cf Aravind 2007), greatly reducing the cost of space-travel in general. With much cheaper space exploration, the ﬁnancial risks are reduced for other large-scale space projects, facilitating capital investment and Man’s continued development into a space-faring species.</span>

==New federal legislation is key to demonstrate resolve and build cooperation- the plan independently gets asteroid mining on track== 
**International Space University ’10** [Space Studies Program, “Asteroid Mining, Technologies Roadmap, and Applications,” online]

<span style="font-size: 13px;">The first activity is an investigation into the current legal framework to identify the challenges that apply to asteroid mining. </span>**__Gaining wide acceptance for legitimate asteroid mining using current space law would be the easiest, most desirable goal. This activity will conclude with the identification of key areas that require new legislation to allow asteroid mining activities__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. For example, the current legal framework sufficiently covers registration of an asteroid placed into Low Earth Orbit and liability concerns. Conversely, </span>**__appropriation will be problematic without new legislation clarifying the way ahead__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Following this investigation, the development of new legislation is required. **__This__** </span>**__legislation shall be in place before a private entity invests significantly in an asteroid mining mission. Given the expected complexity of drafting new legislation and the number of state stakeholders, this process could take many years__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. While other preparatory activities towards a successful asteroid mining mission can occur concurrently, </span>**__financing may not be forthcoming from a commercial entity based on hopes that new legislation will exist at a future date__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Another alternative is that a private entity chooses to conduct asteroid mining prior to completion of the legislative framework. In this instance</span>, **__the private entity must accept greater risks in the venture to avoid delaying asteroid mining activities. The new legislation will clarify existing space law to allow asteroid mining activities for the benefit of humankind__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">. Specifically, the new legislation will cover the elements of jurisdiction, appropriation, liability, and distribution. A description of these elements follows. In addition, this section makes recommendation for a starting point aimed at minimizing development time of legislation. </span>

==Earth-based US mining operations won’t solve the crisis- permit disputes will hinder domestic operations== 
**Montgomery 6-27**-11 [Michael, contributor for Resource Investing News, “The Rare Earth Debate Continues in Congress,” [[http://resourceinvestingnews.com/18381-the-rare-earth-debate-continues-in-congress.html]]]

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The policy directives of the bills call upon the government to assess critical metal resources in the United States, while forecasting supply chain trends. Senator Murkowski’s bill, ‘S.1113: Critical Mineral Policy Act of 2011,’ requires that the government “identifies and quantifies known critical mineral resources, using all available public and private information… provides a quantitative and qualitative assessment of undiscovered critical mineral resources throughout the United States.” </span>**__The main obstacle to mining firms in the US is a long and complex permitting process that often takes ten years to accomplish. The ability of the mining companies to react to shifts in the commodity cycle and demands from new technology is hampered by the permitting process__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">. Murkowski’s bill addresses the need to change permitting regulations, ”to encourage Federal agencies to facilitate the availability, development, and environmentally responsible production of domestic resources to meet national critical minerals needs; to minimize duplication, needless paperwork, and delays in the administration of applicable laws (including regulations) and the issuance of permits.” </span>**__The permitting process often puts US mining projects at a serious disadvantage. “If commodity cycles are historically 20 years in duration, the 10 years it takes to obtain permits leaves U.S. mining still in the starting blocks with the race half way over__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">,” stated Hal Quinn, CEO of the National Mining Association. </span>