[[toc]]
Aff Cites/Full Text: [[mailto:Imanol.Avendano@gmail.com|Imanol.Avendano@gmail.com]]
Neg Cites/Full Text: [[mailto:H.Nesser17@gmail.com|H.Nesser17@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Cyborg 1AC== 
===Contention 1 is the Cyborg:=== 
**While Cyborg Presence is Crucial to Deep Space Exploration, NASA Refuses to Research and Endorse This Organic-Mechanical Hybrid Because of Social Concerns About What Constitutes the Human**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Anuradha K. **Herath**, citing Roger D. Launius, chief historian of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, senior curator at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Roger Launius, “Cyborg Astronauts Needed to Colonize Space,” Astrobiology Magazine, September 16th, 20**10**, WE DO NOT DEFEND THE REPRESENTATIONS IN THIS EVIDENCE, WE MERELY USE IT TO DEMONSTRATE WHAT THE STATUS QUO LOOKS LIKE, (http://www.space.com/9128-cyborg-astronauts-needed-colonize-space.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">If humans are to colonize other planets </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">... </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">it's probably going to force you to reconsider how to reengineer humans,"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> Launius said.</span>

**The Challenge the Cyborg Presents to American Identify and the Definition of What is Truly Human is the Basis for Disinvestment in this Research—Public Pressure Overwhelms Even Technical Concerns**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Roger D. **Launius**, chief historian of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, senior curator at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Roger, “Can we colonize the solar system? Human biology and survival in the extreme space environment,” Technology in Society, Volume 29, Issue 3, August 20**07**, Pages 271-282, (Science Direct)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">NASA ofﬁcials chose not to invest more </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">...</span>** thought to be a hardliving, hard-drinking lot (Figure 6). 30

**Despite Shutting Down these Programs, We are Always Already Cyborg—Nature, Culture, Technology are Inherently Indivisible—These Decisions are Based on the Denial of the Interiority of the Inside—Our Refusal to Accept the Terrifying Parts of Ourselves**
<span style="color: black;">Chris Hables **Gray**, Ph.D., </span>Professor-Core Faculty, Interdisciplinary Studies, Graduate College, The Union Institute and University, June 20**11**, “HOMO CYBORG: FIFTY YEARS OLD,” Volumen 8, Número 1, Junio/2011, (http://teknokultura.com/cariboost_files/Teknokultura_v8n1_Gray_ENG.pdf)
It has taken 15 years of studying the cyborgization ... of cyborgs is mirrored by similar feelings many have about evolution.

**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its development and implementation of cyborg technology for the exploration of space beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**

===Contention 2 is Excess:=== 
**Our Embrace of the Cyborg is a Recognition of the Always Already Realized Truth—Subjectivity, Politics and the Body are Fractured and Broken—The Affirmative is Crucial to Rethinking these Models of Stability**
David **Mertz**, Prof of Philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, “Cyborg Bodies Revisited,” Gnosis.cx, November 20**10** ([[http://gnosis.cx/publish/mertz/cyborg.html]])
One history of the denaturing of subjectivity ... and to the regulation of society, pointed to by Bataille.

**Only in Our Embrace of the Cyborg Can a True Understanding of the Function of Technology and a Positive Conception of Intimacy Come to Pass—By Rendering the Boundaries of What is Human Unstable We Resist the Control and Overcoming of Nature and Understand Ourselves as Inseparable**
Alessandro **Tomasi**, Instructor in Philosphy at the Universiy of New Hampshire, “The Role of Intimacy in the Evolution of Technology,” Journal of Evolution and Technology, January 20**08** ([[http://jetpress.org/v17/tomasi.htm]])
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">This trend is an indication that technology has a direction ...</span> that approximates that of the gods, as it is humanly possible.

**The Return to Intimacy is the Crucial Basis for the Understanding, Relation and Consumption of Excess—Only Such a Transition in Production Can Avoid Violence and Destruction**
Georges **Bataille**, Philosopher, Theory of Religion, 19**89** (Google Books)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">This introduces, as a basis for clear self-consciousness ... </span>(that is, if self-consciousness is to be, in the general sense, human).

**Life is Nothing More than a Constant Search for this Lost Intimacy—Only by Engaging with Technology as an Ends Rather Than an Means Can we Achieve an Intimate, Non-Objective Relationship with our Surroundings**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alessandro **Tomasi**, Instructor in Philosphy at the Universiy of New Hampshire, “Technology and Intimacy in the Philosophy of Georges Bataille, Human Studies, Vol. 30, No. 4 (Dec., 20**07**), pp. 411-428, (JSTOR)</span>
Georges Bataille's critique of technology ... <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">we maintain an intimate, non-objective relationship.</span>

**Our Impact Argument is the Prior Question of the Debate—Not Only Does the Refusal to Acccomodate Excess Form the Basis of Empirical Instances of Violence and War, But The Negative Attempts to Conceive of Impact Arguments in Relation to Survival Reduces the World to a Circular Disaster—We Survive Merely In Order to Ensure Our Survival—We Must Instead Embrace Excess Itself in Order to Make Survival Relevant in the First Place**
Alan **Stoekl**, professor of French and comparative literature at Penn State University, Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion and Postsustainability, 20**07** (Pg 44 – 46)
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Bataille does, then, implicitly face the question of ...</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> the world’s (but not modernity’s) survival.</span>

**Our Fear of Catastrophe is Ultimately Self Sustaining—Rather Than Cataloguing the Possibilities of Extinction and Capitalist Commodification We Must Focus Solely on Our Immanent Connections to the World at Large**
Kathryn **Yusoff**, Lecturer in Human (and Non-human) Geography, and Director of the MA in Climate Change at the University of Exeter, “Biopolitical Economies and the Political Aesthetics of Climate Change,” Theory Culture Society, 20**10**, 27: 73, (Sage)
The implications of this thinking are ... In colloquial terms: greenwash.

**Reject the Negative’s Predictions—Their Epistemology Claims Privilege Utility as an Unquestioned Assumption Over Excess—Ensures Dominant Institutions Will Shape Knowledge to Sustain Their Worldview**
**Pawlett 97** (William, Professor of Sociology and Cultural Studies, University of Wolverhampton, Utility and excess: the radical sociology of Bataille and Baudrillard, Economy and Society, 26:1, 92 — 125)
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Within the dominant trends of contemporary sociology ... in some sense instinctive or archaic in origin.</span>

==2AC AT: Topicality== 
**Methods for the exploration of space include robots, humans, and their organic-mechanical hybrids**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Roger D. **Launius**, chief historian of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, senior curator at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Roger, “Can we colonize the solar system? Human biology and survival in the extreme space environment,” Technology in Society, Volume 29, Issue 3, August 20**07**, Pages 271-282, (Science Direct)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The result</span>, given sufﬁcient time, <span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">...</span> on Earth while biological material from Earth evolves on other planets.

==2AC AT: Framework== 
**We control uniqueness— politics is impossibly fractured. Denying cyborg pedagogy forecloses all education, sacrifices agency—the only real world impact, replicates violence, and cedes politics turning their impact**
**Angus, Cook, and Evans, 2001** (Tim, Professor of Geography @ University of Birmingham, Ian, Associate Professor of Geography @ the University of Exeter, and James, Senior Lecturer in Environmental Governance @ University of Manchester, International Research in Geographical and Environmental Education, Vol. 10, No. 2, “A Manifesto for Cyborg Pedagogy?”)
Our Geographies of Material Culture course attempts.............this is a radical pedagogical project.

**Our Embrace of Excess is Necessarily a Catastrophic Encounter—Rather Than Continuing to Calculate Impacts Under the Negative Logic We Must Consider Disaster as Something Intimate, An Event Which Heralds the Possibility for Transgressive Change**
Kathryn **Yusoff**, Professor of Geography at the University of Exeter, “Excess, catastrophe, and climate change,” October, 20**09**, Environment and Planning D: Society and Space advance online publication, (http://www.envplan.com/epd/fulltext/dforth/d7407.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One path, Bataille suggests, is to ... that is, for Bataille, the only limit of the biosphere.</span>

**Your education is self-defeating—the more useful it is the more likely existing media narratives will assimilate and destroy it**
Irwin **Alexander**, ethicist and public health policy analyst whose primary areas of work include: (1) HIV/AIDS policy; (2) the underlying social and political determinants of health; and (3) human-rights based approaches to health. After completing a PhD in the philosophy of religion in Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Irwin taught for four years as an Assistant Professor at Amherst College, “Saints of the Impossible: Bataille, Weil, and the Politics of the Sacred,” 20**02**, pg 214-215
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Even if new, legitimate values were somehow ... matters of serious public debate.</span>

==2AC AT: Disads== 
**Death and Life are Fundamentally Inseparable—The Attempt to Exclude and Repress Non-Life From Life is a Desperate Attempt to Sustain The World of Objects Which Fundamentally Can only Result in Exclusion and Violence**
Georges **Bataille**, Philosopher, Theory of Religion, 19**89** (Google Books)
The puerile unconsciousness of sacrifice even ... useless consumption of the intimate order.

**The Disad is a Demand to Focus on the Possibility of Future Lives Which Explicitly Excludes the Transgression—You Attempt to Sustain a Civilization Which Can Never Understand or Relate to the Possibility of Death**
Liran **Razinsky**, Post-doctoral researcher at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Previously he was at NYU. He works in French and Comparative Literature and in psychoanalytic theory. He has published papers on Jonathan Littell and on Freud and psychoanalytic theory. His research interests include the writing subject, Holocaust literature, and the theme of death in psychoanalytic theory and in literature. 20**09**. SubStance. Issue 119 (Volume 38, Number 2). “How to Look Death in the Eyes: Freud and Bataille.”
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Our usual world</span>, according to Bataille ... when death is left out, life “as it is” is false and superficial.

==2AC AT: Impacts== 
===AT: Disease Impacts=== 
**The Medical Attempt to Privilege Health Over Illness is an Attempt to Disrupt and Repress the Erotic and Intimate Sensitivity of the Body**
David B. **Morris**, University Professor at the University of Virginia, Un-forgetting Asclepius:An Erotics of Illness, New Literary History, 20**07** (Project Muse)
It is presence—the experience of the body ... <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">new self enlightened as to the truth.</span>

===AT: War Impacts=== 
**We Should Not View War as Separate From the Personal and Biological—Rather than Simply Repressing War as Violence—We Must Understand it as an Excessive and Sexual Component of The World**
Maryline **Lukacher**, Associate Professor of French at Northern Illinois University, Maternal Fictions: Stendhal, Sand, Rachilde, and Bataille,19**94** (Questia Online)
When <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Bataille declared, ... which Bataille mixes with that of death.</span>

===AT: Terrorism Impacts=== 
**The Fear of Terror is Precisely an Attempt to Bring the Future To Bear in the Present—This Strategy is Precisely the Logic of the Pre-Emptive Strike and the War on Terror, Repressing the Intimate to Render Humanity’s Only Purpose the Preservation of Itself**
Stefano **Harney and** Randy **Martin**, Director of Global Learning & Reader in Strategy at Queen Mary University of London School of Business and Management and Professor of art and Public policy and director of the graduate program in arts politics, Mode of Excess: Bataille, Criminality, and the War On Terror, Theory and Event, 20**07** (Project Muse)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">If the Cold War contested the future ... </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">mode of excess, so too does its strange bed-fellow, the state-form.</span>

===AT: Economy Impacts=== 
**Your Attempt to Manage the Restricted Economy to Ensure Economic Growth is Both Impossible and Counterproductive—The Collapse You Describe is Inevitable Without a Reversal of Thought**
**Bataille ’91** (Georges,The Accursed Share: An Essay on the General Economy vol. 1 consumption, translated Robert Hurley p. 26 )
I will simply state, without waiting further, ... mind of the mechanic who changes a tire.

===AT: Jobs Impacts=== 
**Their focus on jobs is a strategy meant to achieve maximum productivity and refuse the inevitability of death, resulting in the destruction of being and the denial of intimacy**
Joanna **Brewis and** Samantha **Warren**, Joanna Brewis is of lecturer in management at the University of Essex, Samantha Warren is a researcher and part-time lecturer in Organization Behavior at the University of Portsmouth, “Pregnancy as Project: Organizing Reproduction,” Administrative Theory & Praxis, Vol. 23, No. 3 (Sep., 20**01**), pp. 383-406, (JSTOR)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">As already intimated, one especially significant ... ourselves that </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">our offspring will live for as long as possible.</span>

===AT: Poverty Impacts=== 
**Its Precisely the Focus on Dealing With These Issues in the Context of the General Economy That Ensures Poverty and Structural Violence Will Continue—Transformation of Our Relation to Excess is the Only Way to Solve, As Long as We Consider the Situation as One of Balancing Risks We are Screwed**
Georges **Bataille**, The Accursed Share: An Essay on the General Economy vol. 1 consumption, translated Robert Hurley, 19**91** (Google Books)
As for the present historical situation, ...<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> pressure to below the danger point.</span>

===AT: Environment Impacts=== 
**Even Contemporary Ecological Science Recognizes That Excess is Intrinsically Connected to the Potential Environmental Catastrophes of the Future—The Affirmative is a Precursor to Your Impact Argument**
**Clark and Stevenson 03** (Nigel and Nick, JOURNALOF HUMAN RIGHTS, VOL 2 NO 2 (JUNE 2003), 235–246)
By exploring the social and historical constitution ... that exceeds all calculation (see Connolly 1999: 139).

==2AC AT: Bataille is Fascist== 
**Bataille’s not Fascist—his critique turns the power of fascism upon itself**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alan **Stoekl**, professor of French and comparative literature at Penn State University, “Truman's Apotheosis: Bataille, "Planisme," and Headlessness,” Yale French Studies, No. 78, On Bataille (19**90**), pp. 181-20</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Was Georges Bataille a fascist? ...</span> we can just as easily see its inevitable coherence as repressive.

**Wrong—Fascism is a Trick, its Heterogeneity in the Service of the Homogeous**
Simonetta **Falasca-Zamponi**, Associate Professor in the Department of Sociology at the University of California, Santa Barbara, A Left Sacred or a Sacred Left?, South Central Review, 20**06** (Project Muse)
The connection between politics and sacred ... making of it an accomplice of homogeneous society.

==<span style="background-color: white;">2AC AT: Bataille not Falsifiable</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">Bataille uses the scientific method to form the basis of his critique of utility</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lysa **Hochroth**, Professor @ the French Departments at Columbia University and at the University of the District of Columbia, “The Scientific Imperative: Improductive Expenditure and Energeticism,” Configurations 3.1 (19**95**) 47-77, (Project Muse)</span>
Before getting into the specifics, and as the point is not ...<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;"> extreme realm of improductive expenditure.</span>

==2AC AT: Util Good== 
**A Utilitarian calculus produces a psychopathic world view—this impact turns their life saving arguments**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Will **Wilkinson**, research fellow at the Cato Institute where he worked on a variety of issues including Social Security reform and, most notably, the policy implications of happiness research, citing a study performed by Daniel Bartels from Columbia University and David Pizarro at Cornell, September 27, 20**11**, “The wicked souls of utilitarians,”(http://bigthink.com/ideas/40399?page=1)</span>
Dr Bartels and Dr Pizarro knew from previous research ...<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> good and shut up about what you really think is best.</span>

**The prohibitionist morality of utilitarian calculus suffocates life and encourages more explosive outbreaks of violence**
Kenneth **Itzkowitz**, associate professor of philosophy at Marietta College, “To Witness Spectacles of Pain: The Hypermorality of Georges Bataille,” College Literature, Winter, 19**99**, Vol. 26 Issue 1, p19, 15p, (EBSCO)
It would be pointless to deny that ... <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">explosively in outpourings that, in the end, are inevitable.</span>

==2AC AT: Agent CP== 
**The Counterplan Asks and Irrelevant and Minute Question—One That Even At its Best Can Only Distract From the Notion of Excess that is the Basis of the Affirmative—Focusing On Our Point of Identification Within the System Loses the Intimate Potential of Action**
Kendall **Johnson**, Assoc Prof of English at Swarthmore, Haunting Transcendence: The Strategy of Ghosts in Bataille and Breton - authors Andre Breton and Georges Bataille - Critical Essay, 2oth Century Literature, Fall 19**99** ([[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0403/is_3_45/ai_58926041/?tag=content;col1]])
For Bataille, the ghost is not a symptom ... headless agitation of a personal Nietzscheism. [9]

==2AC AT: International Actor CP== 
**The Function of Excess Reveals the Ultimate Falsity of International Relations—Rather than Evaluate the Relative Power of International Actors We Must Consider The Question of Immanence and Identity To Make Any Difference**
Scott **Lash**, Director of the Centre for Cultural Studies at Goldsmiths College, London University, “Power after Hegemony,” Theory, Culture & Society May 20**07** (SagePub)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The psychoanalytic notion of the symbolic ... Communications do not cement. The USA sees no need to cement.</span>

==2AC AT: Anthropocentrism K== 
**Bataille’s criticism solves the kritik—it is the utilitarian relationship excess that generates the anthropocentric worldview**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lysa **Hochroth**, Professor @ the French Departments at Columbia University and at the University of the District of Columbia, “The Scientific Imperative: Improductive Expenditure and Energeticism,” Configurations 3.1 (19**95**) 47-77, (Project Muse)</span>
It is only after these nonmetaphorical cosmic ... <span style="font-size: 9pt;"> in its never-ending search for power.</span>

==2AC AT: Biopower K== 
**Foucault’s Conception of Biopower is Inherently Limited, Cannot Account for the Aesthetic Function of the Erotic Body—The Affirmatives Methodology Excedes This Conception of Power and Utilizes the Only Possible Standard For Resistance, Taking Signals From the Function of the Imperfect Body**
Jurgen **Habermas**, Recasting the Foucault/Habermas Debate, 19**94** (Google Books)
Nietzsche's concept of the will to power and <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Bataille's concept of sovereignty ... </span>which refuses to be sublated into discourse.2

**The cyborg isn’t subject to Biopolitics—it creates its own politics**
**Haraway 1991** (Donna, the original cyborg, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature (New York;
Routledge, 1991)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">One should expect control strategies ... a much more potent field of operations.</span>

==2AC AT: Capitalism K== 
**Your Understanding of Capital Falls Precisely For the Trap of Capitalism Itself—The Problem is not One of Scarce Resources, But the Reliance on Production, Abundance and Excess—The Affirmative is a Prior Question to Your Understanding**
David **Mertz**, Prof of Philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, “Cyborg Bodies Revisited,” Gnosis.cx, November 20**10** ([[http://gnosis.cx/publish/mertz/cyborg.html]])
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Bataille makes precisely this same move ... commodities-system in the exchange of equivalents.</span>

**The Alternative is Doomed to Fall Into Fascism—Socio-Economic Analysis Cannot Account For The Distinction Between Socialism and Fascism—We Must Have Recourse to the Affirmatives Psychic Phenomena That Render New Modes of Thinking and Being Possible**
Brett **Levinson**, Department of Comparative Literature, State University of New York at Binghamton, In Theory, Politics Does not Exist, Postmodern Culture, September 20**07** (Project Muse)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Bataille then asks</span> under what conditions ...<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> that renders such prospects thinkable</span>.

==2AC AT: Heidegger K== 
**Heidegger’s instrumental attitude of making things manageable can’t solve—only Bataille’s complete rejection of this instrumental view can return us to intimacy and show us that the evolution of technology is an intrinsic part of the evolution of humanity**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alessandro **Tomasi**, Instructor in Philosphy at the Universiy of New Hampshire, “Technology and Intimacy in the Philosophy of Georges Bataille, Human Studies, Vol. 30, No. 4 (Dec., 20**07**), pp. 411-428, (JSTOR)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Georges Bataille's critique of technology is unforgiving. ...</span> concerning the relationship between intimacy and technology.

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Heidegger’s relationship to the sacred is doomed to fall into the realm of the authentic—only the radical passion of Bataille can achieve the imminence necessary to locate the sacred—the site of transgression and intimacy</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Andrew **Ryder**, an Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature at Al-Quds University in East Jerusalem, received his doctorate from Emory University, where he was a fellow at the Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry, “Bataille against Heidegger: Language and the Escape from the World,” 20**10**, (http://aqu.academia.edu/AndrewRyder/Papers/884921/Bataille_against_Heidegger_Poetry_and_the_Escape_from_the_World)</span>
Bataille proceeds from this praise to a series of ...<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> repudiation in which Bataille locates his version of the sacred.</span>8

==2AC AT: Feminism K== 
**Bataille’s Thinking of Feminine Sexuality is Crucial to Understand Gender At All—Your Approach Simply Makes Women into the Other of Men Onto Which Fantasies and Fictions are Displaced**
Maryline **Lukacher**, Associate Professor of French at Northern Illinois University, Maternal Fictions: Stendhal, Sand, Rachilde, and Bataille,19**94** (Questia Online)
We come here to an important juncture ... masturbate amorously while looking at the corpse. [[http://www.questia.com/read/98663584|1]]

==2AC AT: Frontier K== 
**The Concept of Space Exploration is Crucial to Changing What We Understand As Human—Your Alternative Refuses to Understand What Space Represents—Proves Your Alternative Can Never Solve The Aff**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Melanie Rosen **Brown**, Professor at St. Johns River State College, studied Texts & Technology at University of Central Florida, “Dead Astronauts, Cyborgs, and the Cape Canaveral Fiction of J.G. Ballard: A Posthuman Analysis,” January 24th, 20**06**, Journal of Reconstruction: Studies in Contemporary Culture, (http://reconstruction.eserver.org/043/brown.htm)</span>
Until we have "a lot of people in space, ... <span style="font-size: 9pt;"> limitations of our human lives here, on Earth.</span>

**Your Astro-Environmentalism Argument Fails—The Idea of Traditional Environmental Understanding Ignores Excess—Your Representation Argument Supports the Affirmative, Since We Must First Understand the Human Before We Undertake Protections**
**Clark and Stevenson 03** (Nigel and Nick, JOURNALOF HUMAN RIGHTS, VOL 2 NO 2 (JUNE 2003), 235–246)
By exploring the social and historical ... that exceeds all calculation (see Connolly 1999: 139).

==2AC AT: Grotesque Bodies K== 
**The Aff is one-step ahead of the alternative—the aff successfully re-imagines our connection to technology with the techno-grotesque**
Bernard **Schütze**, <span style="background-color: white;">Université de Montréal</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, </span>Bernard Schütze et Richard Riewer, "The Grotesque and the Techno-grotesque,” Inter : art actuel, n° 63, 19**95**, p. 49, (http://www.erudit.org/culture/inter1068986/inter1110012/46528ac.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">With the techno-grotesque it is no longer the biological anomaly ... </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">reinterpret an old view of technology as organ projection.</span>

**Even if we trigger the impact Bataille’s philosophy internally resolves it—it opens up the possibility for sexed communication beyond sexed identities—means you only evaluate a risk of a solvency deficit against the alternative**
<span style="color: #222222;">Zeynep **Direk**, </span>Professor of Philosophy at Koc University<span style="color: #222222;">, “Erotic Experience and Sexual Difference in Bataille” in “READING BATAILLE NOW,” edited by Shannon Winnubst, Indiana University Press, 20**07**, p. 105</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Bataille is a thinker of the possibility of sexed communication ... but reveal that it is contingent.</span>

**We Cannot Simply Criticize or Abandon Technology—The Affirmative Instead Devotes Our Attention to Intimacy—To an Understanding of the World that is Intimately Connected With Destruction and Death—The Alternative Doesn’t Solve Your Argument or the Aff**
Zeynep **Direk**, Professor of Philosophy at Koc University, “Bataille on Immanent and Transcendent Violence,” Bulletin de la Societe Amencaine de Philosophie de Langue Francais, Fall 20**04** (Gender Modified) (jffp.pitt.edu/ojs/index.php/jffp/article/download/459/453)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">In the technological era, [hu]man lives under the domination ...</span> Bataille refrains from condemning violence in purely ethical or political terms.

==2AC AT: State Bad K== 
**The State is Nothing Without the Devotion of our Excess to Its Sustainability—Resistance After Accepting this Question is Irrelevant as the State Adapts to Accommodate All Such Demands**
Brett **Levinson**, Department of Comparative Literature, State University of New York at Binghamton, In Theory, Politics Does not Exist, Postmodern Culture, September 20**07** (Project Muse)
Given the alienation of its constituents ...<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> in certain cases, fascism.</span>

**Their critique of the State scapegoats it and replicates the logic of anti-Semitism**
Allan **Stoekl**, Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Penn State University, Truman's Apotheosis: Bataille, "Planisme," and Headlessness, Yale French Studies, No. 78, On Bataille (19**90**), pp. 181-205
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">It was no doubt true that official ... naive and sinister pseudoscience of biological determinism.</span>

==2AC AT: Military Cooption K== 
**Cyborg exploration creates a radical praxis for subverting military power**
<span style="color: #1a1818;">Fraser **MacDonald**, School of Anthropology, Geography and Environmental Studies, University of Melbourne, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography” Progress in Human Geography 31(5) (20**07**) pp. 592–615 (SAGE)</span>
Lastly, <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">a critical geography must not be overly ... can space be given a truly human geography.</span>

**The cyborg coopts the military-industrial complex**
Kyle **Munkittrick**, program director at the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, @NYU, “On the Importance of Being a Cyborg Feminist,” <span style="font-family: Tahoma;">July 21st, 20**09**</span>, H+ Magazine, (http://hplusmagazine.com/2009/07/21/importance-being-cyborg-feminist/)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Haraway co-opts hegemonic power through ... </span>cyborg is rebellion embodied in a single techno-organic subject.

=Negative= 
==Bataille K== 
===Links=== 
====Economy==== 
**The Aff’s Attempt to Manage the Restricted Economy to Ensure Economic Growth is Both Impossible and Counterproductive—The Aff’s Attempt to Maximize The Productive Potential of Excess Represses Transgressive Expenditure—The Impacts The Aff Describes Are Inevitable Without Rethinking**
**Bataille ’91** (Georges,The Accursed Share: An Essay on the General Economy vol. 1 consumption, translated Robert Hurley p. 26 )
I will simply state, without waiting further, … with the narrow mind of the mechanic who changes a tire.

====War==== 
**We Should Not View War as Separate From the Personal and Biological—Rather than Simply Repressing War as Violence—We Must Understand it Within the Context of the Transgression**
Maryline **Lukacher**, Associate Professor of French at Northern Illinois University, Maternal Fictions: Stendhal, Sand, Rachilde, and Bataille,**1994** (Questia Online)
When <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Bataille declared ... which Bataille mixes with that of death.</span>

===Impacts=== 
**This Refusal to Acknowledge Our Repression of Transgressive use of Excess is the Basis of Empirical Violence in the Arms Race and War. The Attempt To Conceive of Impacts in Relation to Survival Makes the World Circular, We Survive Merely In Order to Ensure Our Survival—We Instead Must Evaluate Survival as the Merely Incidental Consequence of Expenditure to Survive or Care About Survival in the First Place**
Alan **Stoekl**, professor of French and comparative literature at Penn State University, Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion and Postsustainability, 20**07** (Pg 44 – 46)
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Bataille does, then, implicitly face the question of ...</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> the world’s (but not modernity’s) survival.</span>

===Alternatives=== 
**The opposition to transgression is precisely the model of the taboo–in refusing to acknowledge this moment of transgression we refuse to engage in the embrace of excess–We must use and affirm transgression as an example of our discontinuity as subjects–that is to say, we recognize that we cannot be linked together through any unified discourse or structure and as such we must be exposed to violence to have any experience of the world whatsoever**
Apple Zefelius **Igrek**, Vanderbilt University, Violence and Heterogeneity: A Response to Habermas’ “Between Eroticism and General Economics: Georges Bataille” Janus Head, 20**04** ([[http://www.janushead.org/7-2/Igrek.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Discontinuity is Bataille’s term ... would be required to secure its borders.</span>

==Capitalism K== 
===**Links**=== 
**We must begin by taking a more critical approach to space–exploration beyond the earth is the newest solution to the inevitable crises produced by capitalism. It will inevitably become militarized and morph into a terrain for continued domination and exploitation of resources and labor**
Peter **Dickens** 20**10** (teaches at the Universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK. author of //<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe</span>//). "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?” //Monthly Review// 2010, Volume 62, Issue 06 (November)
Instead of indulging in over-optimistic and ... <span style="font-size: 9pt;">make their own cosmic “fixes</span>.”

===Impacts=== 
**Continued Economic Growth Will End All Complex Forms of Life—We Must Allow Recession to Take Hold to Re-Establish Viable Civilization—All Your Transition Bad Impacts are Non-Ux**
Dr. Glen **Barry**, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology,” CounterCurrents.org, January 14th, 20**08** (http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm)
Given widespread failure to pursue ... offering hope for a planetary and human revival.

===Alternatives=== 
**The Alternative is To Allow The System to Collapse—Exposing These Fractures Will Allow for Capitalism to Collapse, They Must Be Exploited as the Opportunity Arises**
Slavoj **Zizek** , Contingency, Hegemony, Universality: Contemporary Dialogues on the Left, 20**00**, p. 322
I am fully aware of what one ... do not fit into globalization more docile.

==StratoSats CP== 
**StratoSats superior—cost effective, maneuverable, UV rays, and repairable**
Alexey **Pankine et. al.**, Study supported by NASA Revolutionary Aerospace System Concepts Program, the NASA Earth Science Technology Office, and the NASA Institute for Advanced Concept, August 20**09**, American Meteorology Society, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, and Kerry Nock, “STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS,” (http://meto.umd.edu/~zli/PDF_papers/BAMS_Nock(Pankine).pdf)
At present, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">no investment is ...</span> and win satellite investigations.

==Space Mil DA== 
**US is pursuing space cooperation—multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
Wade **Huntley**, senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School. “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, 20**11**. (http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)
As is well understood, the space ... of the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details.

**[The perception of] pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
Daniel **Dant**, chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy, High Frontier, February, 20**11**, " he National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” (http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf)
Cooperation for contested and competitive ... coalition of responsible space-faring nations.

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is key to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
Theresa **Hitchens**, President of the Center for Defense Information, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?,” Scientific American, February, 20**08**, (http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)
Perhaps of even greater concern is that ... The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.

**War in space occurs through miscalculation—risks extinction**
**Mitchell, et al**, Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads,” No. 6 July, 20**01**, ( http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)
A buildup of space weapons might ... destructive military conflict ever seen.