[[toc]]
=1AC Hoflo= 

==Plan== 

<span class="Underline">**The United States federal government should substantially increase development of asteroids as movable property.**</span>

==Space Law== 

<span class="Underline">**Contention one is space law – the Outer Space Treaty is an overly confusing Cold War relic – the plan’s key to redefine the regime**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tingkang 12 –** J.D. Candidate, Seattle University School of Law, 2012; B.A., Philosophy and Political Science, University of Washington, 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, “These Aren't the Asteroids You Are Looking For: Classifying Asteroids in Space as Chattels, Not Land”, 35 Seattle Univ. L. R. 559, Winter 2012, lexis, dml) [note: corpus juris spatialis=the regime of outer space law] </span>

The current corpus juris spatalis is<span class="Underline"> … …</span>in settling on a rational property system<span class="Underline">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**We’re at the watershed moment – the plan would modernize space law and open up a new era in commercial space development**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tingkang 12 –** J.D. Candidate, Seattle University School of Law, 2012; B.A., Philosophy and Political Science, University of Washington, 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, “These Aren't the Asteroids You Are Looking For: Classifying Asteroids in Space as Chattels, Not Land”, 35 Seattle Univ. L. R. 559, Winter 2012, lexis, dml) [note: corpus juris spatialis=the regime of outer space law]</span>

We are on<span class="Underline"> the verge of </span>another space boom<span style="font-size: 5pt;">… …</span><span class="Underline"> unique features of different celestial bodies. </span>

**Sustainable space law based on refining the OST is vital to prevent extinction – property rights clarification is key**
**Hays 10** – director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower”, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]], dml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">While desires for better refined space law to advance spacepower … …</span>__the foundation provided by the OST regime__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan clarifies the OST and is key to create a broader property rights regime – solves conflict** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Tingkang 12 –** J.D. Candidate, Seattle University School of Law, 2012; B.A., Philosophy and Political Science, University of Washington, 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, “These Aren't the Asteroids You Are Looking For: Classifying Asteroids in Space as Chattels, Not Land”, 35 Seattle Univ. L. R. 559, Winter 2012, lexis, dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> [*583] In addition to redistributing the control burden … …</span><span class="Underline"> the use and exploration of outer space.</span>



==Com Dev== 

<span class="Underline">**Contention two is commercial development – the plan jumpstarts it and creates new incentives to mine asteroids – brings limitless wealth and causes a massive influx of resources**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tingkang 12 –** J.D. Candidate, Seattle University School of Law, 2012; B.A., Philosophy and Political Science, University of Washington, 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, “These Aren't the Asteroids You Are Looking For: Classifying Asteroids in Space as Chattels, Not Land”, 35 Seattle Univ. L. R. 559, Winter 2012, lexis, dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">This Part will focus on </span>the potential uses of asteroids<span class="Underline"> … … resource exploitation are significantly reduced. n57 </span>

<span class="Underline">**The US can unilaterally recognize land rights – spurs investment and avoids backlash**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Twibell 97** </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589)</span>

<span class="Underline">The problems with international methods</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> … …</span><span class="Underline"> pending some agreed-upon international regime."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Scenario 1 is resources – a strong commercial sector with access to space resources solves every scenario for extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Collins and Autino, 10** - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND **Andromeda Inc., Italy** </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>**

**The major source of social friction,<span class="Underline"> including … …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">supplying widely popular travel services to the general public.</span>**

Plan’s independently key to tech innovation – sparks the next industrial revolution
Twibell 97 **Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589**

**<span class="Underline">An immediate and accelerated surge in the … …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> including genetic engineering and molecular electronics. </span>**

Continued innovation is key to survival
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baker 2k </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Former Industrial Economist</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brent Barker, electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, INFOTRAC</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sustainability has been the subject of much discussion</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> … …</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">generations everywhere in the world</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. Thatfuture begins now.</span>**


Scenario 2 is colonization – the plan spurs long-term colonies and solves literally every one of your defense arguments – redefining space law is key
Tingkang 12 – **J.D. Candidate, Seattle University School of Law, 2012; B.A., Philosophy and Political Science, University of Washington, 2009**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, “These Aren't the Asteroids You Are Looking For: Classifying Asteroids in Space as Chattels, Not Land”, 35 Seattle Univ. L. R. 559, Winter 2012, lexis, dml) [note: corpus juris spatialis=the regime of outer space law]</span>**

**<span class="Underline">Besides the immediate cost-savings advantage… …</span> understanding how it might be improved.**

Only the plan redefines space law which is key to long-term colonization
Tingkang 12 – **J.D. Candidate, Seattle University School of Law, 2012; B.A., Philosophy and Political Science, University of Washington, 2009**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, “These Aren't the Asteroids You Are Looking For: Classifying Asteroids in Space as Chattels, Not Land”, 35 Seattle Univ. L. R. 559, Winter 2012, lexis, dml) [note: corpus juris spatialis=the regime of outer space law] </span>**

**Asteroids<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> are extremely important to the future of humanity… …as chattels would be one small step into a better future. </span>**

Extinction
Lancaster 1/23/12 – **retired from the USAF, commercial space policy consultant**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, “A vision for a new frontier purpose for American spaceflight”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2010/1]], dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">First, the most important reason… …</span><span class="Underline"> we won’t know what is truly possible</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>**


Scenario 3 is asteroids – the plan leads to more efficient NEO tracking and solves collisions – initial federal action is key to incentivize and coordinate the private sector
Tingkang 12 – **J.D. Candidate, Seattle University School of Law, 2012; B.A., Philosophy and Political Science, University of Washington, 2009**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, “These Aren't the Asteroids You Are Looking For: Classifying Asteroids in Space as Chattels, Not Land”, 35 Seattle Univ. L. R. 559, Winter 2012, lexis, dml) </span>**

**<span class="Underline">The</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> first </span><span class="Underline">difference between asteroids … …</span>centralized government initiatives<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> where necessary. n175 </span>**

Extinction
Garreston and Kaupa 2007 **– Lt. Col. AND Major in the Air Force (March 1, “ Planetary Defense: Potential Department of Defense Mitigation Roles ” [[http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/documents/Potential-DoD-Roles--Garretson.pdf]])**

**<span class="Underline">Larger </span>asteroids<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> in the range greater … … peninsula,16 possibly eliminating the dinosaurs. </span>**

Existential risks first
MATHENY 2007**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)</span>
__Even if extinction events are improbable… … 99% of humanity and those that threaten 100%.__

==Other Stuff== 

**Contention three is other stuff – their definition of “development” is restricted and unsustainable – legal reforms count**
**Sen 2000** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Before I go on to the second way in which … .. constitutive and also to the class of causal connections.</span>

**Government definition includes property rights**
**Cherian and Abraham 7 –** both from National University of Advanced Legal Studies, Kerala, India
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jijo and Job, “Concept of Private Property in Space – An Analysis”, Journal of International Commercial Law and Technology Vol. 2, Issue 4 (2007), dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In January 2004, the US President George W. </span>__Bush … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> involving national and international issues (Presidents Comm., 2004). </span>

**Space should be debated in a policy framework**
***HUNTLEY et al 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Wade L. Huntley, US Naval Postgraduate School; Joseph G. Bock, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Miranda Weingartner, Weingartner Consulting; “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy 26)</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">These prospects raise many issues. Accordingly… ..</span> __worst outcomes__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, which are easier to identify.</span>

**Exclusive focus on method causes endless paradigm wars – good is good enough**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wendt</span>, professor of international security – Ohio State University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘98</span>
(Alexander, “On Constitution and Causation in International Relations,” British International Studies Association)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">As a community, we in the academic study of international … …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">one-sided, intolerant caricatures</span><span class="Underline"> of science</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**Cap is inevitable and good**
<span class="Underline">**Wilson 95** – Professor of Public Policy</span>
James, Professor of Public Policy @ Pepperdine, Capitalism and morality” Public Interest, No. 121, Fall

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">However one judges that debate… …they may not operate well enough.</span>



=1AC NDCA= 

**Replaced Garrettson and Kaupa with**

**Causes extinction irrespective of the asteroid size** 
**Pierazzo and Artemieva 12 –** Planetary Science Institute AND Institute for Dynamics of Geospheres, Russian Academy of Science
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Elisabetta and Natalia, “ Local and Global Environmental Effects of Impacts on Earth”, Elements, Vol. 8, pp. 55–60, February 2012, dml) </span>

__Impact events__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> have punctuated Earth’s geologic past… …</span>__further affect the environmental pollution__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>
=Add-Ons= 


==Colonization - Bostrom== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Colonization solves future lives</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bostrom 04</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Nick, professor of philosophy at Yale University (</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">2004</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” http://www.nickbostrom.com/ astronomical/waste.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">As a rough approximation, let us say </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the Virgo Supercluster … …</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> postponement of colonization</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> of our supercluster.</span>__**

**those come first**
**Bostrom 11 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Oxford</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, “The Concept of Existential Risk,” <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.pdf]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">One gets a large number even if one confines … …</span><span class="Underline"> of the direct benefit of such an action.</span>

==Resources== 

**Tingkang says the plan solves resource disputes – these escalate to space war absent sustained cooperation**
**Huntley et al 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US Naval Postgraduate School (Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” </span>__Space Policy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Science Direct)</span>

__‘‘Back to the Future’’ describes a future__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">name the kinds of weapons not to be used.</span>



=Topicality= 

==2AC Generic Development== 

**in the context of land “develop” means make available for commercial use**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Warren W. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Matthews</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Jr., Chief Justice of Supreme Court of Alaska, 3/15/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">91</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Kenai Borough v. Cook Inlet Region & Salamatov Native Assoc. , 807 P 2d 487”, </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.touchngo.com/sp/html/sp-3671.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">The meaning of the term "developed" under … … building streets, and installing utilities).</span>

**Development means to increase access to space – it’s the core of the topic**
**Hudgins 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Ph. D, currently Director of Advocacy and Senior Scholar at the Rand institute, former director of regulatory studies for Cato, (Edward, “ Message to Debaters on Economics of the 2011-2012 Topic”, http://debate-central.ncpa.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Message-to-Debaters-on-the-Economics-of-the-Topic.pdf)</span>

__When we speak of “development” we should … …are permanent and not cost-prohibitive.__

**Fourth, predictability – legal reforms are an integral part of the term “development” – that’s 1AC Sen – they’re __anti-topical__ – they prevent development**
**Lee 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(LLB (Hons) BSc (Hons) BA (Int St)(Hons). Candidate PhD, LLM and MSc. Member of the International Institute of Space Law and Lawyer at Minter Ellison, Canberra, Australia. Singapore Journal SJCIL (2000) 4 pp 194 – 251 Reconciling International Space Law with the Commercial Realities of the Twenty-first Century)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Fourthly, as exploitation of natural resources … …</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> further </span>____large-scale development in outer space.__


==2AC Development=Satellites== 

**You literally explode the topic**
**Smith 3** –Congressional Research Service, Resources, Science, and Industry Division
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marcia, “U.S. Space Programs: Civilian, Military, and Commercial”, [[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/19957.pdf]])</span>

__The creation of NASA was__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">… …reports are discussed below</span>


=Disads= 

==Weaponization== 

===2AC=== 

**perception of weaponization now**
**Brown 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Trevor Brown (BA, Indiana University; MSc, S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University [Singapore]) is an author on political, economic, and military strategy for the medium of space, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html#brown, dml) </span>

__The United States has plans to weaponize space … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">and reconsidering commitments on arms control.5 </span>

**SECOND, OST plan’s key to refine it, that’s Tingkang – it solves** 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marder 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe New Life into Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty,” June 2008, [[http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/ChineseASATtest.pdf]], dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Finally, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the most valuable benefit of consultation procedures </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… …</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the specter of a weaponized space is a present threat.</span>__</span>

**THIRD, space law – it’s the __only option__**
**Polanyi 5 –** Nobel laureate, professor of chemistry at the University of Toronto
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, “War Beyond Earth is Not Inevitable But Only the Rule of Law Can Prevent it”, </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2005/05/17_polanyi_war-beyond-earth.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">One answer is that we are a nation of … …</span>__the opportunity will not come again__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Carpe diem. </span>
==Politics== 

===Link turn=== 

<span class="Underline">**Plan’s popular and doesn’t cost pol cap**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wasser 91**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, National Space Society, </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/%20Articles/research_library/StakeClaims0498.pdf|http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/ Articles/research_library/StakeClaims0498.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

It will be much easier to get a <span class="underline0">… …capable of carrying humans back and forth. </span>

===Pol cap false=== 

**Pol cap theory is false**
**__Jacobs and King 10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, University of Minnesota, Nuffield College, (Lawrence and Desmond, “Varieties of Obamaism: Structure, Agency, and the Obama Presidency,” Perspectives on Politics (2010), 8: 793-802) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> But </span><span class="Underline">personality is not a solid foundation … … </span>Presidential <span class="Underline">sales </span>pitches go only so far<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>