[[toc]]
=Cite Requests= 
Hit up Mintz at [[mailto:damintz95@gmail.com|damintz95@gmail.com]] for any cite requests or questions
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Round 1 vs CPS PY== 
=1AC- Plan Text= 
**Text:** The United States federal government should substantially reduce non-Federal Bureau of Investigation police presence in Afghanistan. 
=1AC- Afghanistan= 
Advantage One – Afghanistan 
**Counter narcotics failing now**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Daily Times 1/22</span>/2011**. “UN fears high prices may spur Afghan opium farmers,” http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/default.asp?page=2011\01\22\story_22-1-2011_pg14_8
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">More Afghan farmers </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 164 percent in 2010. </span>
**Squo is interdiction efforts**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Caulkins et al. 10</span>** (Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">New U.S. </span>____government<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> … and corrupt officials.</span>__ </span>



Counternarcotics will destroy Afghanistan:
First – it kills DEA morale, collapsing the surge and stability 
Marisa **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Taylor</span>**, McClatchy, **20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span>**. “Agents say DEA is forcing them illegally to work in Afghanistan,” http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2009/06/21/70386/agents-say-dea-is-forcing-them.html
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">As</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Obama</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> from the DEA.</span>__


Second – targeting - Insurgents __target__ counter narcotics agents for brutal reprisals 
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Dawn 1/18</span>/2011**. “U.S. and Afghan agents ramp up war on drugs,” http://www.dawn.com/2011/01/18/us-and-afghan-agents-ramp-up-war-on-drugs.html
Being a policeman …in Badghis province.
This causes complete withdrawal and the loss of Afghanistan 
Tom **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Diaz</span>**, Fairly Civil, **20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span>**. “The Other War in Afghanistan,” http://tomdiaz.wordpress.com/2009/10/28/the-other-war-in-afghanistan-taliban-drug-gangs-and-the-dea/
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">What the Taliban</span>__…__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> in the country</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>
Third – price hikes

**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Caulkins et al. 10</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hence, </span>__interventions that … governance and security.__</span>
**Fourth – hearts and minds**

**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Brown 10</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=5N95OLwIcUYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Shooting+Up.+counter+narcotics&source=bl&ots=uE0iJAY0OF&sig=-v3jrleddaaHxef1LM4jo7DTRMU&hl=en&ei=RPB2TNqlI4Wdlgel7rWvCg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CCkQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Belligerents can gain </span>…from the population__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
**Counternarcotics is the critical determinant of Taliban power, without it they can’t pursue larger goals**

**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Brown 10</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=5N95OLwIcUYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Shooting+Up.+counter+narcotics&source=bl&ots=uE0iJAY0OF&sig=-v3jrleddaaHxef1LM4jo7DTRMU&hl=en&ei=RPB2TNqlI4Wdlgel7rWvCg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CCkQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in;">__The financial <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">profits </span>… military combat units.__ </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Global nuclear war**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Morgan 7</span>__** (Stephen John Morgan, former National Executive Officer of the British Labour Party, his responsibilities included international relations, ethnic minority work, women’s issues, finance, local government and organization, he specialised particularly in international crisis situations spending long periods working in Belfast, in efforts to overcome sectarian strife and terrorism, former Director of WIC, a research and publishing company based in London, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">he went to live in Budapest during the Gorbachov period from where he helped build opposition groups in the underground in Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and East Germany, Stephen left active politics in the early 1990 and came to live in Brussels, where he established and managed his own publishing company, has lived and worked in more than 27 different countries, including underground political work during the troubles in in Northern Ireland and war in Yugosalvia, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?"<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-left: 0.25in;">Although disliked and … Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!</span>


Counter narcotics forces a shift to hash production
Matthew **Dupace**, research associate for the Program for Culture & Conflict Studies at the Naval Postgraduate School, **2010**. http://www.asiadespatch.com/2010/11/the-rising-storm-of-afghanistan%E2%80%99s-burgeoning-hashish-trade/
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The international community’s … issue of concern</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.</span>
That destabilizes Iraq and Afghanistan
Matthew **Dupace**, research associate for the Program for Culture & Conflict Studies at the Naval Postgraduate School, **2010**. http://www.asiadespatch.com/2010/11/the-rising-storm-of-afghanistan%E2%80%99s-burgeoning-hashish-trade/
__An additional destination__ __…__ of poppy seed.
The impact is global war 
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ferguson ’06</span>** (Niall, The Next War of the World Foreign Affairs September 2006 - October 2006, lexis)
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">What makes the </span>____…__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> Palestine and Mesopotamia. </span>



=1AC- New 1= 
Counter narcotics causes a meth shift - makes Afghan instability inevitable 
Colonel Louis H. **Jordan**, Strategic Studies Institute, **2010**. http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/of-interest-17.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">due to the </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is: criminal activity.</span>
That spills over to Iran, where its trafficked to Southeast Asia 
Matthew C **DuPee**, senior research associate and Afghan specialist at the Naval Postgraduate School **and** Ahmad **Waheed**, Afghan Fulbright scholar and research analyst for the Program of Culture and Conflict Studies at the Naval Postgraduate School, **2011**. “High Times for Iranian Drug Mafia,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/MA05Ak01.html
However, __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the spillover </span>…, Malaysia and Japan__. 
That destabilizes the region 
**Yemen Observer 2009**. “Drug use in East and South-East Asia a growing problem,” http://www.yobserver.com/sports-health-and-lifestyle/printer-10017770.html
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The East and South-… **by synthetic drug**</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 8pt;">s</span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Southeast Asian collapse causes nuclear war 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">S. **Rajaratnam**, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Singapore, **1992**</span>
(“ASEAN: The Way Ahead,” http://www.aseansec.org/13991.htm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Should regionalism collapse, …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> mankind will ever fight</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Southeast Asian meth intensifies AIDs spread 
Kevin **Fagan**, San Francisco Chronicle, **2003**. http://articles.sfgate.com/2003-05-29/news/17490484_1_thailand-laos-and-burma-yaa-baa-meth
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past …</span>__,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the U.N. says. </span>
Aids causes genocide, ethnic cleansing, and economic collapse— makes war more likely and increases the impact 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">SINGER</span> 20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">02</span>** (Peter, John M. Olin Post-doctoral Fellow, Foreign Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution, Survival, Spring. This is not the bioethicist/activist Peter Singer.)</span>
A recurring themes …__just by 2005__.9
Southeast Asia is a critical transmission area – this destroys military readiness 
Stuart **Kingma and** Rodger **Yeager**, Civil-Military Alliance to Combat HIV & AIDS, **2005**. http://www.certi.org/cma/publications/7-MS_HIV-AIDS_Asia_Military.pdf
__Troops__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> regularly </span>__find t…<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">mobile sex trade</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
That causes war
Jack **Spencer**, Senior Fellow at Heritage, **2000**. http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Military </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">readiness is </span>… thereby <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">preserving peace</span>.__
=1AC- New 2= 
**Advantage 3:** War on Drugs
The U.S. is losing the global war on drugs 
Ted Galen **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Carpenter</span>**, vice president for foreign policy at Cato, **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">1/6</span>/2011**. “Sisyphus and Afghanistan’s Drug War,” http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/sisyphus-afghanistans-drug-war-4679
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Only a few … political leaders do. </span>


Collapse of the war on drugs is inevitable – withdrawal from Afghanistan creates a tipping point that forces alternate approaches 
Christopher **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Hitchens</span>**, Slate, **20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">04</span>**. “Let the Afghan poppies bloom,” http://www.slate.com/id/2110987/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Any attentive reading … next big thing.</span>


Ending the war on drugs in Afghanistan sparks recognition of failure – causes shift in political priorities 
Ted Galen **Carpenter**, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, **2004**. “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermine’s America’s War on Terror,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb84.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. officials need …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> must take priority</span>__
War on drugs makes global instability inevitable 
Ethan **Nadelmann**, founder and executive director of the Drug Policy Alliance, **2007**. “Think Again: Drugs,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/15/think_again_drugs
It might be. __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">…than criminal</span>__ problems. 
Nuclear terrorism is inevitable unless we end the war on drugs – extinction 
**The New Age Citizen 1998**. “How Continuing the Drug War Could Make Nuclear Terrorism a Reality,” http://www.newagecitizen.com/Editorials/v8n1NuclearTerrorism.htm
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The real problem … the Drug War.</span>
The war on drugs ensures Mexican instability collapse 
Diane **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Francis</span>**, Editor at Large, the National Post, **20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span>**. “U.S. War on Drugs is Killing Mexico,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/diane-francis/us-war-on-drugs-is-killin_b_256285.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Those conditions have …</span>__other two amigos__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Mexico is at the tipping point
John **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Ackerman</span>**, Guardian, **2/18/20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">11</span>**. “Mexico, chief casualty of America's 'war on drugs'” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2011/feb/18/drugs-trade-drugs
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Tuesday's brutal attack</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">doomed to fail.</span>__

**Mexican state collapse will be __fast__ and __catastrophic__ – causes US intervention**
<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Joint Forces Command – 8</span></span>
United States Joint Forces Command, “The Joint Operating Environment 2008: Challenges and Implications for the
Future Joint Force,” December 2008
There is one …<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> homeland security alone.</span></span>

Mexican collapse causes arms race and global instability
Robert **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Haddick</span>**, Managing editor of the Small Wars Journal, **9/10/20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>**. Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/09/10/this_week_at_war_if_mexico_is_at_war_does_america_have_to_win_it
Most significantly__, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a </span>…__out of control. 

**Mexican collapse would cause the formation of an anti-US alliance across Latin America**
**Tobin 06**
Consultant TAO Emergency Management Consulting, “The Coming Civil War in Mexico”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.ricktobin.com/papers/thecomingcivilwarinmexico.pdf|www.ricktobin.com/papers/thecomingcivilwarinmexico.pdf]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">In a fast </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… Latin America links.</span></span></span>
**Global war**
**Coronel 07**
Petroleum geologist, author and public policy expert, A possible political scenario for Latin America, 2007-2012, http://muevete.wordpress.com/2007/09/18/a-possible-political-scenario-for-latin-america-2007-2012/
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Still, there is …<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">t to world stability.</span></span></span>
=<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1AC Round 3</span>= 
=<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1AC- Plan Text</span>= 



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Text:** The United States federal government should substantially reduce its non-Federal Bureau of Investigation police presence in Afghanistan.</span>



=<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1AC- Afghanistan</span>= 



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Advantage One – Afghanistan</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Counter narcotics failing now**</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Daily Times 1/22</span>/2011**. “UN fears high prices may spur Afghan opium farmers,” http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/default.asp?page=2011\01\22\story_22-1-2011_pg14_8</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">More Afghan farmers </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">dry opium jumped 164 percent in 2010.</span></span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Counternarcotics will destroy Afghanistan:</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First – it kills DEA morale, collapsing the surge and stability</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Marisa **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Taylor</span>**, McClatchy, **20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09</span>**. “Agents say DEA is forcing them illegally to work in Afghanistan,” http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2009/06/21/70386/agents-say-dea-is-forcing-them.html</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">As</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Obama</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> administration </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">ramps up the D</span>rug <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">E</span>nforcement <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">…saying they fear retaliation from the DEA.</span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second – targeting - Insurgents __target__ counter narcotics agents for brutal reprisals</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Dawn 1/18</span>/2011**. “U.S. and Afghan agents ramp up war on drugs,” http://www.dawn.com/2011/01/18/us-and-afghan-agents-ramp-up-war-on-drugs.html</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Being a policeman in Afghanistan always …__shortly <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">after a gun battle with insurgents</span>__ in Badghis province.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This causes complete withdrawal and the loss of Afghanistan</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Tom **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Diaz</span>**, Fairly Civil, **20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09</span>**. “The Other War in Afghanistan,” http://tomdiaz.wordpress.com/2009/10/28/the-other-war-in-afghanistan-taliban-drug-gangs-and-the-dea/</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">What the Taliban</span>__, and especially the drug gangs, __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">… and tribal leaders in the country</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third – price hikes</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Caulkins et al. 10</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Prof, Operations Research & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon. Fmr Dir, RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center. Mark Kleiman. Prof, Public Policy. Director, Drug Policy Analysis Program. UCLA. Jonathan Kulick. Advisor, State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration. Fmr Dir of Studies, Georgian Foundation for Strategic & Int’l Studies. “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June. NYU Center on International Cooperation. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/Lead%20Page%20PDF/sherman_drug_trafficking.pdf]]</span>)</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hence, </span>__interventions that reduce …several percent increase: a perverse result in terms of governance and security.__</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Fourth – hearts and minds**</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Brown 10</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=5N95OLwIcUYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Shooting+Up.+counter+narcotics&source=bl&ots=uE0iJAY0OF&sig=-v3jrleddaaHxef1LM4jo7DTRMU&hl=en&ei=RPB2TNqlI4Wdlgel7rWvCg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CCkQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span></span></span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Belligerents can gain substantial political capital</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">continued support </span>from the population__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Counternarcotics is the critical determinant of Taliban power, without it they can’t pursue larger goals**</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Brown 10</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vanda Felbab-Brown. Prof, Security Studies Program, Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative., Brookings Institute “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=5N95OLwIcUYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Shooting+Up.+counter+narcotics&source=bl&ots=uE0iJAY0OF&sig=-v3jrleddaaHxef1LM4jo7DTRMU&hl=en&ei=RPB2TNqlI4Wdlgel7rWvCg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CCkQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span></span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__The financial <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">profits that belligerents </span>…and take on actual military combat units.__</span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Global nuclear war**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Morgan 7</span>__** (Stephen John Morgan, former National Executive Officer of the British Labour Party, his responsibilities included international relations, ethnic minority work, women’s issues, finance, local government and organization, he specialised particularly in international crisis situations spending long periods working in Belfast, in efforts to overcome sectarian strife and terrorism, former Director of WIC, a research and publishing company based in London, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">he went to live in Budapest during the Gorbachov period from where he helped build opposition groups in the underground in Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and East Germany, Stephen left active politics in the early 1990 and came to live in Brussels, where he established and managed his own publishing company, has lived and worked in more than 27 different countries, including underground political work during the troubles in in Northern Ireland and war in Yugosalvia, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?"<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span>)</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although disliked and despised in many quarters, </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">the Taliban </span>__****__…__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!</span></span>

=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**1AC - WOD**</span>= 



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Advantage 2:** War on Drugs</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The U.S. is losing the global war on drugs</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ted Galen **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Carpenter</span>**, vice president for foreign policy at Cato, **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">1/6</span>/2011**. “Sisyphus and Afghanistan’s Drug War,” http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/sisyphus-afghanistans-drug-war-4679</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Only a few months ago, UN and NATO officials …</span>__that it doesn’t work__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Sisyphus didn’t have a choice, but our political leaders do.</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Collapse of the war on drugs is inevitable – withdrawal from Afghanistan creates a tipping point that forces alternate approaches</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Christopher **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Hitchens</span>**, Slate, **20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">04</span>**. “Let the Afghan poppies bloom,” http://www.slate.com/id/2110987/</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Any attentive reading of the report, however, shows that it is </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">state/blue state dichotomy. It ought to be the next big thing.</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ending the war on drugs in Afghanistan sparks recognition of failure – causes shift in political priorities</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ted Galen **Carpenter**, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, **2004**. “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermine’s America’s War on Terror,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb84.pdf</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. officials need to keep their priorities straight. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Our mortal…, the war against radical Islamic terrorism must take priority</span>__</span>









<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">War on drugs makes global instability inevitable</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ethan **Nadelmann**, founder and executive director of the Drug Policy Alliance, **2007**. “Think Again: Drugs,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/15/think_again_drugs</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">It might be. __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Global drug prohibition is clearly a costly disaster</span>__. …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">addiction problems to be treated as medical rather than criminal</span>__ problems.</span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The war on drugs ensures Mexican instability collapse</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Diane **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Francis</span>**, Editor at Large, the National Post, **20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">09</span>**. “U.S. War on Drugs is Killing Mexico,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/diane-francis/us-war-on-drugs-is-killin_b_256285.html</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Those conditions have played into </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">the next major problem for the continent</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, …</span>__but cannot win,"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he said. </span>__Neither can the other two amigos__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Mexico is at the tipping point</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">John **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Ackerman</span>**, Guardian, **2/18/20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">11</span>**. “Mexico, chief casualty of America's 'war on drugs'” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2011/feb/18/drugs-trade-drugs</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Tuesday's brutal attack</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on two US law …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Without this, everything else is doomed to fail.</span>__</span>







<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Mexican state collapse will be __fast__ and __catastrophic__ – causes US intervention**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Joint Forces Command – 8</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">United States Joint Forces Command, “The Joint Operating Environment 2008: Challenges and Implications for the</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Future Joint Force,” December 2008</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">There is one dynamic in the …<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">based on the serious implications for homeland security alone.</span></span></span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Mexican collapse causes arms race and global instability</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Robert **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Haddick</span>**, Managing editor of the Small Wars Journal, **9/10/20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**. Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/09/10/this_week_at_war_if_mexico_is_at_war_does_america_have_to_win_it</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Most significantly__, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">a strengthening Mexican insurgency would</span>__ …can apply what it has recently learned about insurgencies to stop this one from getting out of control.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Mexican collapse would cause the formation of an anti-US alliance across Latin America**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Tobin 06**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Consultant TAO Emergency Management Consulting, “The Coming Civil War in Mexico”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ricktobin.com/papers/thecomingcivilwarinmexico.pdf|www.ricktobin.com/papers/thecomingcivilwarinmexico.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">In a fast moving State of War in Mexico, …and internal strife with its own citizens, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">especially those with Mexican heritage or Latin America links.</span></span></span></span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Global war**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Coronel 07**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Petroleum geologist, author and public policy expert, A possible political scenario for Latin America, 2007-2012, http://muevete.wordpress.com/2007/09/18/a-possible-political-scenario-for-latin-america-2007-2012/</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Still, there is no doubt that <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">there are strong efforts being </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">becomes a major threat to world stability.</span></span></span></span></span>





=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**1AC New Advantage Round3**</span>= 



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Cause-and-effect claims require a coherent theory of human behavior – their DAs are epistemologically unsound</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Rockwell</span>** Jr., president of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, 5/19/**20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">08</span>** (Llewellyn, “Everything You Love You Owe to Capitalism,” http://mises.org/story/2982)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Not even</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an event as spectacular as </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the spontaneous meltdown of a superpower</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…., </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the state can continue to spread its malicious and destructive policies</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Defense dollars are stolen from taxpayers – the impact is endless wars</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Robert **Higgs**, Ph.D. in economics from Johns Hopkins, Senior Fellow in Political Economy for The Independent Institute and Editor of the Institute’s quarterly journal The Independent Review, **2007**. “The Living Reality of Military-Economic Fascism,” http://mises.org/daily/2450</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, as Kotz observes, "[t]here is a multiplier effect as the different …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">making its system of military-economic fascism less rapacious and corrupt.</span>__</span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The resulting oppression is the worst form of socialism because it forces us to internalize our subjugation and identify with our oppressors</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Robert **Higgs**, Ph.D. in economics from Johns Hopkins, Senior Fellow in Political Economy for The Independent Institute and Editor of the Institute’s quarterly journal The Independent Review, **2007**. “The Living Reality of Military-Economic Fascism,” http://mises.org/daily/2450</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In countries such as </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">the U</span>nited <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">S</span>tates__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, whose …</span>__heroic military establishment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (the Boeing Company's slickly produced television ads, among others, splendidly illustrate this propagandistically encouraged illusion).</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The expropriation of American tax dollars for security makes extinction inevitable</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Murray **Rothbard**, Economist and Philosopher, **2003**. “War, peace, and the state,” http://mises.org/etexts/defensemyth.pdf</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__We have seen__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> throughout our discussion </span>__the crucial importance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… of private citizens.</span></span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Each instance of coercion paves the way for massive atrocities</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Harry <span class="Heading2Char">Browne</span>, former Libertarian presidential candidate, executive director of public policy at American Liberty Foundation, editor of Liberty Magazine, financial advisor and economist, 19<span class="Heading2Char">95</span>, Why Government Doesn’t Work, p. 66-7</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The reformers of </span>__the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Cambodia</span>n revolution …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">programs that came before.</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Socialism in any form expunges freedom and makes extinction possible</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Rockwell** Jr., president of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, 5/19/**2008**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Llewellyn, “Everything You Love You Owe to Capitalism,” http://mises.org/story/2982)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">And yet, sitting on the other side of the table are well-educated people …</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">dropping atom bombs</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> on millions of innocents</span>__**.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Takes the value to life</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**Raz**, Philosopher, **1986**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Joseph, //The Morality of Freedom//, page 307)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">One way to test the thesis of the primacy of action reasons is to think …</span>__a degenerate case of human life__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But clearly </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">not being alive can be better than </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 8pt;">that</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">life</span>.__</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Liberty first</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**__Petro__**, Toledo Law Review, **__1974__**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Sylvester, Spring, page 480)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway - "I believe in only one thing: liberty." And it is always well to bear in mind David Hume's observation: </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">"It is seldom that liberty</span> of any kind <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">is lost all at once</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." Thus,</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">it is …must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Taxpayers should not foot the bill for counter narcotics in Afghanisatn</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Doctor Ron **Paul**, Representative from Texas, defender of freedom, **2002**. “Don’t Force Taxpayers to Fund Nation Building in Afghanistan,” http://www.antiwar.com/paul/paul33.html</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">I imagine a lot of people here in the Congress …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">to continue spending money on policies that do not work</span>?__</span>





<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Utilitarianism fails and leads to genocide</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Rothbard**, Dean of Austrian School of Economics, **1998.** (Murray, Ethics of Liberty http://www.mises.org/rothbard/ethics/twentysix.asp)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="BoldunderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">What’s</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> so </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">good about the “greatest number”?</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">3 </span>…<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">them to arrive at any estimate for “social” utility or cost.</span></span></span>



=Negative= 
==Round 1 vs Bingham TG== 
===Case=== 
====1NC==== 
**Extinction comes first**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">JONATHAN </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">SCHELL, 82</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [FATE OF THE EARTH, PG. 95]</span>
<span style="color: black;">But </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">the mere </span>____<span style="color: black;">…</span>__<span style="color: black;"> to our species.</span>
Their moral tunnel vision is complicit with the evil they criticize
<span style="margin-left: 1.0in; text-indent: -1.0in;">**__Isaac 02__** (Professor of Political Science at Indiana-Bloomington, Director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, PhD from Yale, Jeffery C., Dissent Magazine, Vol. 49, Iss. 2, “Ends, Means, and Politics,” p. Proquest)</span>
As a result, … __undermines political effectiveness.__

Utilitarianism inevitable 

<span style="margin-left: 1.0in; text-indent: -1.0in;">**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Green 02</span>__** (Assistant Professor Department of Psychology Harvard University, Joshua, November 2002 "The Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Truth About Morality And What To Do About It", 314)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Some people who …__or covertly consequentialist.__</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Democracies check</span>**
**Dickinson 2004**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Edward Ross, University of Cincinnati, __Central European History,__ v37, n1, p.34-36)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The need to …</span> **__of social engineering__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 34-36 </span>
**Plan crushes political engagements**
**Rorty 98** (Richard, Professor of Comparative Literature – Stanford University, Achieving Our Country: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America, p. 37-38)
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Foucauldian Left</span>__ … to theo­logical knowledge.
**Right fills-in – causing extinction**
**Rorty 98** (Richard, Professor of Comparative Literature – Stanford University, Achieving Our Country: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America, p. 89-94)

__At that point, something …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> a resourceful spook."10</span>
**The plan shatters alliance-based politics – it produces __fragmented__ struggle and precludes __normative__ __prescriptions__ for action**
**Cook 92** (Anthony, Associate Professor of Law – Georgetown Law, New England Law Review, Spring, 26 New Eng.L. Rev. 751, Lexis)
Several things …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> weapons of liberation.</span>

**Squo sustainable**
Daniel **__Griswold__**, Masters in economics, 20**__07__***—director of the Center for Trade Policy at CATO. He has testified before House and Senate committees and federal agencies on a range of trade and immigration issues. Former editorial page editor of the Colorado Springs Gazette and a congressional press secretary. BA in journalism, U Wisconsin. Diploma in economics and master’s in Politics of the World economy, London School of Economics. (Daniel, “Trade, Democracy and Peace: The Virtuous Cycle,” 20 April 2007, http://www.freetrade.org/node/681)
The good news … three main ways.
**Militarism inevitable**
<span class="TitleChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">McDonough 9</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (David. S. McDonough, Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies at Dalhousie University, “Beyond Primacy: Hegemony and ‘Security Addiction’ in U.S. Grand Strategy”, Winter 2009, Orbis, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The reason that …</span><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of the Long War</span>__</span>__.__


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Realism is true and inevitable – it predicts wars</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Mearsheimer ‘1</span></span> (Professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361)
<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">optimists'</span><span class="underline0"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">claim </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">region at peace.</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Empirics prove </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Synder ‘2</span></span> – Professor Emeritus of Political Science at the University of North Carolina- 2002(Glenn H.“Mearsheimer's World-Offensive Realism and the Struggle for Security: A Review Essay” MIT Press International Security, Vol. 27, No. 1 (Summer, 2002), pp. 149-173 JSTOR)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Mearsheimer tests and </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> biding its time.</span></span>
**Binaries prevent conflicts**
Kenneth <span class="TitleChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Reinhard</span></span>, Professor of Jewish Studies, UCLA, <span class="TitleChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">20<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">04</span></span></span>, UCLA Center for Jewish Studies, “Towards a Political Theology of the Neighbor,” http://www.cjs.ucla.edu/Mellon/Towards_Political_Theology.pdf 
If the concept …<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">would be identifiable” </span></span>(PF 83).
And conflict escalation
<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Yoon ‘3</span></span> – Professor of International Relations at Seoul National University; former Foreign Minister of South Korea – 2003(Young-Kwan, “Introduction: Power Cycle Theory and the Practice of International Relations”, International Political Science Review //2003; vol. 24; p. 7-8////)//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In history, </span>__the …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of international system</span>__.__
Predictions good
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Fitzsimmons, 07<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% windowtext; font-weight: normal;"> (Michael, Washington DC defense analyst, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06-07, online)</span></span>**
But handling even …decision-makers themselves. 

**Always an inherent value to life**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Phyllis </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Coontz</span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 9pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Associate Professor in the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Pittsburgh. 200</span>**1** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(//Journey of Community Health Nursing//, 18(4). “Transcending the Suffering of AIDS.” JSTOR) In the 1950s, psychiatrist and theorist Viktor Frankl ( 1963) described …one's present life (Reed, 1991 b). </span>
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">No root cause of war</span>__**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Goldstein, IR prof, 1</span>__****<span style="color: black;">—Professor of International Relations at American University, 2001 (Joshua S., War and Gender: How Gender Shapes the War System and Vice Versa, pp.411-412)</span>**
**<span style="color: black;"> I began this … be empirically inadequate.</span>**







===<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> Disads</span></span>=== 

====<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">SKFTA</span></span>==== 
**KORUS will pass – experts agree**
**__Seattle Times – 4/28__**
State eager for approval of free trade with S. Korea, http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/localnews/2014904354_koreatrade29m.html
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Four years after …oversees trade issues.</span>
**Obama political capital key to SKFTA**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Wharton School 1/12 </span>**
University of Pennsylvania, US-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports? ", http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">With Portman now … a key target. </span>
**<span style="color: black;">Plan’s massively unpopular – even useless programs require huge amounts of political capital – there’s strong inertia against any withdrawal</span>**
<span style="color: black;"> **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Dayen 10</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> [</span>David Dayen, “Defense Spending Cuts Face Likely Congressional Override,” Monday May 17, 2010 9:18 am,</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://news.firedoglake.com/2010/05/17/defense-spending-cuts-face-likely-congressional-override/]]</span><span style="color: black;">]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The lesson of …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> need new engines</span>__
**KORUS is key to US-South Korean relations**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Hill</span>**, US Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs assistant secretary, 20**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">07</span>**
(Christopher, “The United States-South Korea FTA: The Foreign Policy Implications.”, 6-13, http://seoul.usembassy.gov/413_061407.html)
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">While the … region on the globe. </span>
**Alliance solves disease**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Snyder, 09</span>** – director of the Center for U.S.-Korea Policy and senior associate of Washington programs in the International Relations Program of the Asia Foundation (Scott, CSIS, April, “Pursuing a Comprehensive Vision for the U.S.–South Korea Alliance.” Google Scholar)

__An emerging challenge … countries from harm.33__

**Extinction**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Fox, 98</span>** Command Surgeon – Joint Readiness Training Council [William, Phantom Warriors, Parameters, Winter, http://carlisle-www.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/97winter/fox.htm]
HIV is a pandemic …__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">m</span>__ ass __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">d</span>__ estruction. 
====SK Presence==== 
**__Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy__**
**__Magnum 04__**__- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea (Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf]//au)__

__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Many </span>Koreans ignore____<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> … of its forces. </span>__

**South Korean economic growth is key to prevent North Korean economic decline and moderate aggression**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Abramowitz and Bosworth 3</span>** (Morton, Senior Fellow – Center Foundation, and Stephen, Dean – Fletcher School, Tufts, Adjusting to the New Asia, July/August)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, other </span>**__players …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> South Korea's economy.</span>
**Korean war bad**
Dan **de Luce**, AFP, **11/25/2010**. “War with North Korea Poses Nightmare Scenarios,” War with North Korea poses nightmare scenarios,” http://www.abs-cbnnews.com/global-filipino/world/11/25/10/war-north-korea-poses-nightmare-scenarios
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A full-blown war </span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">…</span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> world's first nuclear war</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>


**Plan causes SK prolif**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Hughes</span>, 200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">7</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf]</span>

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">South Korea’s history </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of U.S. security guarantees.54</span>

**SK prolif Escalates to global nuclear war**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Cirincione, 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks would …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">nuclear weapon</span> since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__45__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===Topicality=== 
====ASPEC==== 
**1. Interpretation:** the aff must specify the actor that does the plan because the USFG is three branches
<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Alabama Law Review</span></span>, 20<span class="Heading2Char">0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2</span></span> (l/n)
<span class="UnderliningChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">The Framers sought </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Houses of Congress.</span>
<span style="text-indent: .25in;">**b. education**- they obliterate it</span>
<span style="text-indent: .25in;"><span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Elmore</span>, Prof. Public Affairs at University of Washington, PolySci Quarterly 79-80, p. 605, 19<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">80</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">The emergence of …<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> realm of implementation</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.</span></span>

====T Presence==== 
**1. Interpretation:** military presence is bases
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Meernik,</span> 19<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">94</span>__ (James Meernik, Prof. and chair of polisci at UNT, Specializes in U.S. Foreign Policy Ph. D. in polisci from MSU, , University of North Texas, International Studies Quarterly, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force,” Volume 38, p. 127)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The level of … neutral parties alike.</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**B. Ground –** closing of bases is necessary for perception, relations, trip-wire and credibility arguments</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Meernik,</span> 19<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">94</span>__ (James Meernik, University of North Texas, International Studies Quarterly, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force,” Volume 38, p. 127)</span></span>

<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Military Presence. </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the military response</span></span>

===Counterplans=== 
====Courts==== 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. competition</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">- </span></span>the counterplan doesn’t reduce, merely effects a reduction – Court orders are dependent on other actors for implementation
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Hanson ‘6</span>__** (John D. Hanson, Adam Benforado, “The Drifters: Why the Supreme Court makes justices more liberal,” Boston Review, 31(1), Jan/Feb 2006, http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=adam_benforado)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It would be … within the judiciary</span>

**2. solvency-** we solve the aff
Christine <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Bateup</span></span> (historical scholar and JSD Candidate at NYU, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">6</span></span></span>. (71 Brooklyn L. Rev. 1109, “The Dialogic Promise Assessing The Normative Potential of Theories of Constitutional Dialogue,” ln)
The most prominent …<span class="DebateUnderline"> of constitutional meaning</span>__<span style="text-underline: thick;">.</span>__ 194

**Solves the case**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">David S. **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Meyer</span>**, **Prof**essor of **Sociology** and Political Science **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">and</span>** Steven A. **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Boutcher</span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> **Doctoral Candidate** in Sociology, University of California, March 20**0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">7</span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> “Signals and Spillover: Brown v. Board of Education and Other Social Movements” </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="text-underline: thick;">Next, we can …</span>__a clean environment.46 </span>
**3. net benefit**- courts avoid politics
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Rosenberg, 92, </span>**[Gerald N. , “Judicial Independence and the Reality of Political Power”, Political Science Professor at University of Chicago, //jstor//]
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The independence of </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to American government</span>
====Ground Troops==== 
**Marine Security Guards are part of our military presence**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Vance</span>,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Instructor in Accounting & Economics at Pensacola Junior College, </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">4</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Laurence, “Guarding the Empire,”</span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/vance/vance20.html]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When faced with .. assumptions are wrong.</span>
**Marine-protection of our embassies preserves information dominance necessary to solve every transnational threat and maintain our soft-power**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> Williams,</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Center for Emerging Threats and Opportunities, </span>**<span style="color: black;">19</span>****__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">96</span>__** <span style="color: black;">(J. Noel, “U.S. State Department and U.S. Marine Corps: Partners for the 21st Century - Using Embassies as Advanced Bases for Information”, </span>
<span style="color: black;"> <span style="color: blue;">[[http://smallwarsjournal.com/documents/williams.pdf]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">In the face … for American diplomacy</span>__.

===Framework=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">**A) Fairness—there are an infinite number of frameworks that the Aff can’t predict which rigs the game for the negative**</span>
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">MEARSHEIMER</span> 19<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">95</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Winter 94/95)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nevertheless, critical theorists … be more peaceful.</span>
<span class="Underline">**B) Policy implications are necessary to test theory—a legitimate alternative must describe the consequences of implementing specific change because rhetorical criticism can make the world worse—the impact is education and it turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">FEAVER</span> 200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">1</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 178)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same … already does so.</span></span>
<span class="Underline">**C) War—Ignore their generic evidence—detailed military education prevents extinction**</span>
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">HANSON</span> 200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">7</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Victor Davis Hanson, Professor of Classics at CSU Fullerton, “Why Study War?” City Journal, Summer)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It’s no surprise …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">obligation to stop them</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span class="Underline">**D) We solve your K**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Kagan</span> 200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fred, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Why Military History Matters,” June, http://www.aei.org/outlook/24600)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are many …</span> danger and conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]