[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Plan Text: The United States Federal Government should develop and deploy space based solar power.

==Advantage 1 is U.S. Leadership== 
Tech barriers to SPS have been resolved – all that remains is government inaction
Edmonton Journal, Austin Mardon received an honourary doctorate of laws from the University of Alberta on Friday. He is a member of the Order of Canada and is a full member of the International Academy of Astronautics . Pauline Balogun is a U of A student who is interested in green technologies for the future, 6/12/11, “Solar satellites key to green energy”, http://www.edmontonjournal.com/technology/Solar+satellites+green+energy/4933251/story.html//jchen
With gas prices on the rise, the race is on for cheap alternative fuel sources,

Scenario 1 is Competitiveness

The U.S. is ceding technological leadership—our space program is dying. The timeframe is __now.__
DominicGates, Seattle Times aerospace reporter, 6/12/11, “Boeing's Albaugh worries about 'intellectual disarmament' of U.S.”, The Seattle Times,
http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/businesstechnology/2015304417_albaughside13.html
Jim Albaugh is worried about the future of American technological supremacy in the world.

SPS development ensures continued American tech and scientific competitiveness
NSSO, National Space Security Organization, joint office to support the Executive Agent for Space and the newly formed Defense Space Council, 10/10/2007, Space<span style="font-family: 'Noteworthy Bold';">‐</span>Based Solar Power As an Opportunity For Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP offers a path to address the concerns over US intellectual competitiveness
Technological competitiveness is key to American hegemony
Adam Segal, Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, “Is America Losing Its Edge?,” November/December 2004, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html?mode=print
Today, however, this technological edge-so long taken

US hegemony is key to global stability and growth
Bradley A. Thayer, Professor Defense & Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, 2006, The National Interest, November/December, p. Lexis
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have
Infrastructure and tech advances of SPS provide a framework to ensure the US remains the aerospace leader.
NSSO, National Space Security Organization, joint office to support the Executive Agent for Space and the newly formed Defense Space Council, 10/10/2007, Space<span style="font-family: 'Noteworthy Bold';">‐</span>Based Solar Power As an Opportunity For Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP directly addresses the concerns of the Presidential Aerospace Commission

Aerospace dominance is key to American primacy and prevents great power war
Mike Snead, president and founder of the Spacefaring Institute LLC and an aerospace engineering consultant, senior member at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 6-3-2007, “Why the next president should start America on the path to becoming a true spacefaring nation”, http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx
Why is being a great power important to the United…

Scenario 2 is Readiness and Power Projection
SPS is key – provides the only sustainable power source to the military
Taylor Dinerman, senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch and co-author of the forthcoming Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays, from National Defense University Press, 11/24/2008, “Space solar power and the Khyber Pass”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1255/1
Last year the National Security Space Office released its initial report…

Strong forward deployment prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict – prefer it to all other alternatives
Robert Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]
Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter…

Multipolar world = world war and extinction
Robert Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]
In a genuinely multipolar world…

==Advantage 2 is Resource Wars== 

SPS averts global conflict and resource wars by removing energy sources from territorial claims
Taylor Dinerman, author and journalist based in New York City, editor and publisher of Spaceequity.com, 6/8/2009, “War, peace, and space solar power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1389/1
In the future other pipelines, such as the one that…

Scenario 1 is Oil

Solar technology leads to global energy independence—removes the need for foreign oil
NSS, National Space Society, October 2007, “Space Solar Power Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm
The United States and the world need to find new…

Continued oil dependence leads to global instability, terrorism, and economic collapse
Ron Bengston, compilation of articles from: U.S. News & World Report, The Saudi Connection, Friedman (Pulitzer Prize winning columnist), New York Times, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Detroit Economic Club, and Brookings Institution on U.S. Energy Security, 2008, http://www.americanenergyindependence.com
A powerful idea is spreading through…

Scenario 2 is Water

SPS solves water shortages – powers desalination plants
Reid Smith and Lisa Cohn, Writers for Sun and Wind Magazine, October 2009, “Only a matter of time?”, http://www.energysmith.net/articles/spacepower.pdf)
In addition to connecting remote…

Water wars go nuclear
JonathanWeiner, Professor at Princeton University, 1990, “The Next One Hundred Years”, page 270)
If we do not destroy ourselves…

Water Shortages are a form of structural violence driven by colonialism and present day corporations Plan breaks down oppression
Joia S Mukherjee. Medical Director of Partners in Health. 2007. “Structural Violence, Poverty and the AIDS Pandemic” http://www.palgrave-journals.com/development/journal/v50/n2/full/1100376a.html
Current global inequalities are…

==Advantage 3 is the Environment== 

Scenario 1 is Warming
SPS is the ideal clean energy to solve warming – minimal pollution and resource use
Garretson, a Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) International Fellow in India, previously the Chief of Future Science and Technology Exploration for Headquarters Air Force, Directorate of Strategic Plans and Programs, 09 (Peter A., “Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, The Next Major Step In The Indo-US Strategic Partnership?”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/papers/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf)
While no energy source is…

ONLY SPS supplies the power needed for a sustainable energy transition
James M. Snead, P.E., is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, 5/4/2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1
A key element of a well-reasoned US…

Feedback cycles exacerbate warming leading to extinction
Oliver Tickell, environmental researcher, 2008, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)
We need to get prepared for…

SBSP is not happening in the status quo- it’s perceived as too costly. NASA has already shot the idea down once due to budgetary issues.
Shiga, David, staff writer for NewScientist, Short, Sharp Science, “will Obama pursue Space Based Solar Power?”, 22 December 2008, http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2008/12/will-obama-pursue-space-based.html

Could power beamed to Earth…

=Negative= 
We've gone for Heidegger and Cap in the 2NR.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]