[[toc]]
Welcome to Piffington heights Ladies and Gentlemen-
Viveth does the wiki- [[mailto:kviveth@gmail.com|kviveth@gmail.com]] , does mostly neg stuff. He is also on the market, so watch out ladies!
Will is kinda lazy, but email him at [[mailto:willcaplan@gmail.com|willcaplan@gmail.com]] if you need aff stuff

=Affirmative= 
==Nanosats Aff== 
===Plan=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of nanosatellite constellations beyond the Earth’s mesosphere through the Multipurpose NanoMissile System.</span>**

===1ac- UGA Semis=== 
Contention 1
Contention one is space mil
Its’s inevitable-
A) **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. Dependence on assets </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given the great extent to ….reprisals, follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We are vulnerable now- deterrence is key </span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test of a Chinese ground-based</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 21st Century adversary attack capabilities. </span>

And all of our adversaries have the capability to attack
**Donahue, 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Currently, the configuration of global space technologies and assets is highly desirable from a ….l hazards to other satellites.</span>
B) China
**Cooper 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Analyst Assistant at National Research Council (Brent, “Lost in Space: A Realist and Marxist Analysis of US Space Militarization”, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization/ts)This|http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization//ts)This]] card has been censored for religious terms</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In international relations,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> neorealism asserts that </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">states seek …. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">but simply neglect the role that corporations play in the space weaponization process. This leads us to a Marxist analysis of the space weaponization regime.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">All Indicators Go Aff- their impact defense doesn’t assume recent trends </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cheng 11</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “ China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning”, 8/16/11, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/08/Chinas-Space-Program-A-Growing-Factor-in-US-Security-Planning]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">In the past several years, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">China’s space efforts</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">have</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> become </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> activities in at least two possible ways.[10] </span>
Lack of space deterrence causes China invasion of Taiwan
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 2006</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, Lt. Colonel – Space Command, U.S. Air Force, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b)</span>
__The erosion of the US ability to execute the space ….__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">recently </span>__stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.57 </span>

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)
THE high-intensity scenario postulates <span style="background-color: lime;">…. destruction of civilization.</span>
No disads- every other country is using nanosatellites
**Vickers and Martinage 04**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ( Michael G. Vickers, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence by the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee on March 16, 2011. Robert C. Martinage, Deputy Under Secretary of the Navy for Plans, Policy, Oversight and Integration visited NSWCDD, NAMDC and Aegis BMD., “ THE REVOLUTION IN WAR” [[http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/2004.12.01-Revolution-in-War.pdf]] Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments )</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Prospective adversaries may also develop and deploy spacebased ….</span> __in microsatellite technology.__

<span class="Underline">**Even if attacks don’t take out satellites- debris and system failure will** </span>
<span class="Underline">**AIA 11** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aerospace Industries of Association of America Inc, 2011, [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]]</span>

Space is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> certainly </span>becoming<span class="Underline"> more</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> contested….</span><span class="Underline"> their own space infrastructure. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Satellites are key to warfighting</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space assets are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">most critical …. military</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the last decade.5 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Plus re establishing a launch mechanism is key to leadership </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burton</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, **2007**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Control of the space launch market has been attempted /….</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> significantly limited.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And the plan makes military power sustainable </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Messervy 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Deputy Commander, Research, Development and Acquisition, “Maintaining the Advantage: Ensuring Superiority in the Battlefield,” 2010 Fall/Winter 2011 edition , [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA538980&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA538980&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf__]])</span>

__Beyond cost, **other appealing aspects of ….**__conjunction with other Department of Defense organizations. __Within Research__

**Threats are real and inevitable—heg is key to solve multiple scenarios for war**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thayer 6</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs </span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the ….due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Claims of imperialism are wrong- the U.S. military is a force for peace</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barnett, 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies (Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” 3/7, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Events in Libya are a further reminder for Americans that </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">…. deaths from state-based conflicts.</span>__

advantage two is martime terrorism
**Plan k2 uav accuracy**
**__London, 10__** __<span style="font-size: 6pt;">– John R. London III, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command, with Brent Marley and David J Weeks, SETA Contractors (September 2010, “ARMY NANOSATELLITE TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS FOR THE TACTICAL LAND WARFIGHTER,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA534645]])</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">3. SMALL MICROSATELLITES FOR ELECTRO-OPTICAL IMAGERY The unmanned …</span> roadblocks to getting things done rapidly and at low cost.__

That’s key to interdictions in the carribean- solves the drug trade
Purdy 08

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27, pg onlinegreenhill-au)</span>
__In U.S. Southern Command’s … and harmed by insurgents.__


<span class="Underline">**Specifically nanosatellites prevent maritime terror** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Mantzouris 10** - PhD Candidate, US Naval Postgraduate School (June 2010, Georgios, 15th International Command & Control Research & Technology Symposium, “Micro and Pico Satellites in Maritime Interdiction Operations,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA525245)RK</span>

<span class="Underline">1. Introduction</span>
Maritime security has been a hot subject<span class="Underline"> ….Testbed for conducting the experiments.</span>


<span class="Heading2Char">That’s key to prevent latin American instability, bioterror, and LNG attacks </span>

<span class="Heading2Char"> Flynn and Bryan 01</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001, pg online @ CFRgreenhill-au)</span>

__Terrorist acts can take place anywhere. ….weapons within national borders.__

<span class="Heading2Char">//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bioterror causes extinction </span>//</span>
<span class="Heading2Char">Sandberg et al 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Research Fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University. PhD in computation neuroscience, Stockholm—AND—Jason G. Matheny—PhD candidate in Health Policy and Management at Johns Hopkins. special consultant to the Center for Biosecurity at the University of Pittsburgh—AND—Milan M. Ćirković—senior research associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade. Assistant professor of physics at the University of Novi Sad. (Anders, How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?, 9 September 2008, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The risks from anthropogenic hazards appear at present …. continue to </span>__improve__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at a rate rivaling Moore's Law.</span>
LNG attacks outweigh nuclear explosions
Lovins and Lovins 01
[Amory Lovins- Co-Founder of Rocky Mountain Institute and six honorary doctorates and numerous major awards, including a 1997 Heinz Award, a 1993 MacArthur Fellowship, and the Onassis Foundation’s first Delphi Prize in 1989, and with Hunter Lovins he has shared a 1999 Lindbergh Award, a 1993 Nissan Prize, a 1983 Right Livelihood Award , Hunter Lovins- a former co-CEO of Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based nonprofit resource policy think tank. She holds a BA from Pitzer College, a JD from Loyola University School of Law with the Alumni Award for Outstanding Service to the School, and an honorary LHD from the University of Maine. “Brittle Power”- 2001 update and re-release of 1982 book. Pg 87-88]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LNG is less than half as dense as water, so a cubic meter of LNG ….</span> __seven-tenths of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.__

One attack stops all LNG imports
**Energy Bulletin, 4**
(Hector Igbikiowubo, “2020 Scenario: OPEC May Be Replaced,” 1-12-2004, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/145)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Its operations, which involve ExxonMobil, ConocoPhilips and France's Total among others, will ship products to Japan, Spain, Britain and the US. The company is currently looking to Europe and the US for more deals. Rafgas is set to produce 36.6 million tons of LNG per year by the end of the decade. Qatar Petroleum is the main owner, with ExxonMobil taking just under one-third of the venture. Its three projects will supply LNG to South Korea, Spain, Italy, India, Taiwan and the United States. But Qatar's ambitious plans and those of other gas producers to globalize the industry, will require huge investment, around $200 billion in the next decade, according to most estimates. Much of this will involve the construction of many more regasification terminals. </span>__Environmental groups ….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in 2002 alone.</span>
**Natural Gas key to russia’s economy**
**Burke 3/1/12** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Justin Managing Editor , Eurasia News, “ Russia: Putinism and the Russian Economy”, [[http://www.eurasianet.org/node/65070%20/|http://www.eurasianet.org/node/65070 //]] Veevz)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">During his tenure in power, </span>__Russia has experienced robust … budget needs an oil price of $117 per barrel this year to remain in good shape.__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Filger 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Sheldon, Columnist and Founder – Global EconomicCrisis.com, “Russian Economy Faces Disasterous Free Fall Contraction”, [[@http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In Russia</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, historically, </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">economic health and </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> consequence</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Latin American instability causes global war**
**Manwaring 05** (Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Issue of State Failure. - President Chávez also understands that the process leading to state failure is the most dangerous long-term security challenge facing the global community today. The argument in general is …. more they and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity.65</span>


1ac- Plan

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan – </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of nanosatellite constellations beyond the Earth’s mesosphere through the Multipurpose NanoMissile System. </span>**



1AC- Solvency

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency – </span>**
**Nanosatellites are inevitable but no launch meachanism means they won’t be deployed**
**Kelley 10/26**
[Mike Kelley, Staff Writer for Alabama Live, 10/26/11, " Small satellites help Army see and communicate better, says symposium panel” [[http://www.al.com/42/index.ssf/2011/10/small_satellites_help_army_see.html]]]
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The military has awakened</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – in a big way ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> situation where range costs equal vehicle costs."</span>__


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">But the nanomissile reverses this- solves reconstitution </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hawkins, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Currently, there are plans to fly three of those … have to do </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">more</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> with </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">internal</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, with how the Army will adapt to this technology.” </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Nanosatellites and rapid reconstitution is critical to effective space deterrence- only the plan solves </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Colon, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Miguel, Lt. Colonel United States Air Force, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral, “Deterrence 2035 – the Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A New Approach to Space Deterrence The book entitled //Complex Deterrence// ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">not to attack; effectively deterring</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> him.</span>

**Reconstitution solves debris and deterrence**
**Butterworth, 8** - President, Aries Analytics, Inc. Fellow, George C. Marshall Institute (Robert, “Assuring Space Support Despite ASATs,” [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/575.pdf]]
__Even without enemy action, satellites in orbit …. considered escalatory__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">And – There is no way to resolve vulnerability while maintaining a small number of large satellites – deploying clusters of rapidly reconstitutable nanosats is the only way to make our space systems virtually indestructible </span>**

**__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Armstrong, 2010</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Mekesha, Major in the U.S. Military, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)</span>


**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The US’s increasing economic and …..,</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">or even commercial piggybacking</span>**__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">must be</span>__****__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">considered if the U.S military wants to continue to maintain the ultimate high ground -- space.</span>__**

===Stanford Advantage=== 
====Maritime Terrorism==== 
**----Note-Read with different partner**

**Plan k2 uav accuracy**
<span class="s1">**London, 10** </span><span class="s2">– John R. London III, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command, with Brent Marley and David J Weeks, SETA Contractors (September 2010, “ARMY NANOSATELLITE TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS FOR THE TACTICAL LAND WARFIGHTER,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA534645]])</span>

<span class="s3">3. SMALL MICROSATELLITES FOR ELECTRO-OPTICAL IMAGERY […] </span><span class="s2">can eliminate many of the typical roadblocks to getting things done rapidly and at low cost.</span>



**That’s key to interdictions in the carribean- solves the drug trade**
<span class="s4">**Purdy 08**</span>

(Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27, pg online)

<span class="s2">In U.S. Southern Command’s area of responsibility […] and they keep personnel from being detected and harmed by insurgents. </span>

<span class="s8">**That’s key to prevent latin American instability, bioterror, and LNG attacks** </span>

<span class="s8">**Flynn and Bryan 01**</span>

(Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001, pg online @ CFR)

<span class="s2">Terrorist acts can take place anywhere. […] and deployment of biological weapons within national borders. </span>

//Bioterror causes extinction//
<span class="s9">**Sandberg et al 8**</span>—Research Fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University. PhD in computation neuroscience, Stockholm—AND—Jason G. Matheny—PhD candidate in Health Policy and Management at Johns Hopkins. special consultant to the Center for Biosecur<span class="s10">ity at the University of Pittsburgh—AND—Milan M. Ćirković—senior research associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade. Assistant professor of physics at the University of Novi Sad. (Anders, How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?, 9 Septe</span>mber 2008, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction)

The risks from anthropogenic hazards appear […] continue to <span class="s1">improve </span>at a rate rivaling Moore's Law.


**LNG attacks outweigh nuclear explosions**
**Lovins and Lovins 01**
[Amory Lovins- Co-Founder of Rocky Mountain Institute and six honorary doctorates and numerous major awards, including a 1997 Heinz Award, a 1993 MacArthur Fellowship, and the Onassis Foundation’s first Delphi Prize in 1989, and with Hunter Lovins he has shared a 1999 Lindbergh Award, a 1993 Nissan Prize, a 1983 Right Livelihood Award , Hunter Lovins- a former co-CEO of Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based nonprofit resource policy think tank. She holds a BA from Pitzer College, a JD from Loyola University School of Law with the Alumni Award for Outstanding Service to the School, and an honorary LHD from the University of Maine. “Brittle Power”- 2001 update and re-release of 1982 book. Pg 87-88]

LNG is less than half as dense as water, so a cubic meter of […] <span class="s1"> or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs. </span>

**Instability in the region alone causes extinction**
**Manwaring 05** (Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)
The Issue of State Failure. - President Chávez also […] endanger global security, peace, and prosperity.65
===1AC Lexington Semis=== 
====NCW==== 
**Contention 1 is Net Centric Warfare**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NCW is inevitable—it’s just a question of effectiveness </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Groh 10</span>**, Professor of Information and Technology in Warfare in the Department of Distance Education at the U.S. Army War College, retired Armor Officer, D.Sc., Robert Morris University (Jeffrey, July 2010, The U.S. Army War College Guide to National Security Issues, Volume I: Theory of War and Strategy, 4th Ed., “Chapter 23: The Network-Centric Warfare Journey: Realizing the Power of Information,”[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/63365888/4thEditionStategyofWarSSI]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Now that the literature review is complete, …. </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The question is not if DOD will proceed with NCW, but how.</span>__


**Nanosatellties are key to combat adaptiveness which ensures future successful warfare**
**Messervy 10** (Deputy Commander, Research, Development and Acquisition, “Maintaining the Advantage: Ensuring Superiority in the Battlefield,” 2010 Fall/Winter 2011 edition , [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA538980&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA538980&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf__]])

__Beyond cost, **other appealing aspects of …** – working to assure a continued technical superiority on the battlefield.__


**__Specifically key to net centric warfare capabilities, these are key to effective warfighting__**
**__Mandeles 05__** __<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Mark David, Mark D. Mandeles, PH.D., is the president of J. de Bloch Group, a defense consulting firm. He has been a professor of security studies at the American Military University and has had a long and distinguished career in academe and as a defense analyst., “The future of war: organizations as weapons”,pg# unavailable – google books)</span>__

__The network-centric operational concept relies on robust …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> from the perspective of coordinated actions in organizations</span>



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Effective Net Centric Warfare is key to heg and solves nuke terror </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **Arquilla 10**, Ph.D., International Relations from Stanford University, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School (John, “The New Rules of War,” March 2010, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war_]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Almost 20 years ago, I began a debate about networks …</span>****__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, caught glimpses of the future and acted in time to shape it, saving the world from darkness.</span>__**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
An nuclear terror attack is inevitable in the next decade
Graham <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Allison, Harvard University, 07</span>
[Graham Allison, Professor of Government and Former Director of the Belfer Center, Harvard University, “Symposium: Apocalypse When?” Lexis]
<span class="DebateUnderline">MUELLER IS entitled to his opinion that the threat …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">remember: They could hide it in a bale of marijuana.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
Terror Causes extinction
**Ayson 10,** Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” //Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But these two nuclear worlds—</span>__a non-state actor nuclear attack … still meet with a devastating response.__

Plus developing a launch mechanism is key to heg
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burton</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, **2007**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Control of the space launch market has been attempted in the past and may be …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">imagery or other services would be significantly limited.</span>__**


**Threats are real and inevitable—heg is key to solve multiple scenarios for war**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thayer 6</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs </span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's … primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Yes hegemonic transition war</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Barry </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Posen and</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Andrew </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ross</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">,19</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">97</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Political Science, MIT; Professor of International Security, US Naval War College, International Security, Winter</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States can, more easily than most, go it alone. …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. **W**eapons of **m**ass **d**estruction **might be used**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in some of these wars, with unpleasant effects even for those not directly involved. </span>




**Decline triggers positional competition and war – bargaining becomes impossible**
**Wohlforth ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of government @ Dartmouth College ([[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/world_politics/v061/61.1.wohlforth.html#back|William C.]], January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, Pg. 33-35)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, I question the dominant view that status quo …</span> __behave in ways that directly contradict their material interest in security and__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/or </span>__prosperity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
====Space Col==== 
Contention 2 is space colonization
**Nanosatellites key to survey exoplanets**
**Sauser 11**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Brittany Sauser, Writer for Technology Review, Published by MIT, 5/16/11, </span>[[http://www.technologyreview.com/computing/37577/]]]

__The "nanosatellite__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," called ExoPlanetSat</span>__, packs powerful… whole fleet of nanosatellites surveying the nearest and brightest stars.__

**K2 space col, overcomes biological hurdles**
**Harrold, 08** – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's science fiction…</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> atmospheres to sustain life.</span>__

**And getting there isn’t a problem**
**Moskowitz, 2010** (Clara, Staff Writer- Space.com, “NASA’s Far-Out New Plans,” http://www.space.com/7852-nasa-plans.html, 2/1)

__One of the possible consequences of … horizon beyond Earth__," he said.




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction inevitable, space col solves</span>**
**Collins and Autino, 10** - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)

__The major source of social friction, including international friction, has__ surely __…__, appear to be achievable only through the development of a vigorous space tourism industry.

====Space Weather==== 
Contention 3 is Space Weather
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solar storms coming in 2013 and cause global meltdowns- these result in extinction</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> International Business Times 11</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">) *Edited for religious purposes</span>

__Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar… all by itself, imagine a world where hundreds of nuclear facilities go into a total meltdown simultaneously.__

Plan allows us to build in sensors- solves solar storms
Secure World Foundation 09
[ The Secure World Foundation is a fully-funded, private operating foundation dedicated to the secure and sustainable use of space for the benefit of Earth and all its peoples. The Foundation engages with academics, policy makers, scientists and advocates in the space and international affairs communities to support steps that help achieve the secure, sustainable and peaceful uses of outer space with efficient and effective global systems of governance, 5/5/09, [[http://www.newswise.com/articles/small-satellites-tied-to-international-space-situational-awareness-system]]]
__There is increasing interest in the use of small satellites …. sharing those data with the international community in some coordinated way.__

**Sensors on small satellites prevent any space weather impact**
**Grigsby 10 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Captain USAF, BSME (September 2010, David A. Grigsby, “SATELLITE CAPABILITIES MAPPING – UTILIZING SMALL SATELLITES”, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada530034.pdf]])JCP</span>

__Space weather has been identified ….____a small satellite can perform an operational mission.__
===1AC Lexington=== 
====NCW==== 
**Everyone has Nano satellites- takes out perception disads**
<span class="s1">**Vickers and Martinage 04**</span> ( Michael G. Vickers, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence by the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee on March 16, 2011. Robert C. Martinage, Deputy Under Secretary of the Navy for Plans, Policy, Oversight and Integration visited NSWCDD, NAMDC and Aegis BMD., “ THE REVOLUTION IN WAR” [[http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/2004.12.01-Revolution-in-Wa|http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/2004.12.01-Revolution-in-War.pdf]] Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments )
Prospective adversaries may also develop and deploy spacebased denial capabilities over the next 10-20 years […] <span class="s2"> the state-of-the-art in microsatellite technology. </span>

**Weaponization is inevitable-**
**A) China**
<span class="s1">**Cooper 9** </span>– Analyst Assistant at National Research Council (Brent, “Lost in Space: A Realist and Marxist Analysis of US Space Militarization”, [["|http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization//ts)This]] card has been censored for religious terms//

//<span class="s3">In international relations[…] </span>This leads us to a Marxist analysis of the space weaponization regime.//

//**B)Iran**//
//<span class="s1">**Hsu 10**</span>- B.A. in History @ University of Pennsylvania, M.A. in Journalism @ New York University, Senior Staff Writer @ TechMediaNetwork, writer @ InnovationNewsDaily, Space.com, Astrobiology Journal, and Fox News [Jeremy, Fox News, “Iran’s space program cover for military buildup?,” November 10, 2010, [[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/11/10/irans-space-program-cover-mili|http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/11/10/irans-space-program-cover-military-buildup/]], DavidK]//

//<span class="s2">[[http://www.foxnews.com/topics/world/iran.htm%22%20%5Cl%20%22r_src=ramp|Iran]] has its sights set on […]</span> National Security Studies at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I.//

//<span class="s4">**C) India** </span>//
//**Krishnan 11**-staff writer for Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, [Anatha, “Indian Official Says Anti-Satellite Weapon Within Reach” 3-8-11, LexisNexis]//
//BENGALURU, India — <span class="s2">Following the latest successful test of […] </span> The missile was first tested in November 2006.//

//**D) Russia**//
//<span class="s1">**Zak 10**</span>-Writer on US-Russian Space Cooperation @ the Eisenhower Institute, Contributing Editor of Astronomy and Cosmonautics Journal @ Moscow Polytech Society, B.A. in Journalism @ Moscow State Univeristy, B.A. in Public Communications @ Syracuse University, Space reporter @ BBC, IEEE Spectrum, and Air & Space Smithsonian [Anatoly, Russian Space Web.com, “The Naryad Program,” March 1, 2010, [[http://www.russianspaceweb.com/naryad.html]], DavidK]//

//<span class="s4">Even after the retirement of its <span class="s2">[[http://www.russianspaceweb.com/is.html|original anti-satellite system]]</span>[…] </span><span class="s5">Our activities in this direction would be dependent on others, but trust me, </span><span class="s4">we would be able to respond quickly and adequately." </span>//


//**Net-Centric warfare is military doctrine- but it is ineffective in the status quo**//

//**Groh 10**, Professor of Information and Technology in Warfare in the Department of Distance Education at the U.S. Army War College, retired Armor Officer, D.Sc., Robert Morris University (Jeffrey, July 2010, The U.S. Army War College Guide to National Security Issues, Volume I: Theory of War and Strategy, 4th Ed., “Chapter 23: The Network-Centric Warfare Journey: Realizing the Power of Information,” [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/63365888/4thEditionStategyofWarSSI]])//

//<span class="s7">Now that the literature review is complete […] </span><span class="s4">The question is not if DOD will proceed with NCW, but how.</span>//



//**Nanosatellties are key to combat adaptiveness which ensures future successful warfare**//
//**Messervy 10** (Deputy Commander, Research, Development and Acquisition, “Maintaining the Advantage: Ensuring Superiority in the Battlefield,” 2010 Fall/Winter 2011 edition , <span class="s8">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA538980&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)//

//<span class="s4">Beyond cost, **other appealing aspects […]** to assure a continued technical superiority on the battlefield. </span>//


//<span class="s4">**Nanosatellties are key to Net Centric warfare-which solves military power**</span>//
//<span class="s2">**Mandeles 05** </span><span class="s4">(Mark David, Mark D. Mandeles, PH.D., is the president of J. de Bloch Group, a defense consulting firm. He has been a professor of security studies at the American Military University and has had a long and distinguished career in academe and as a defense analyst., “The future of war: organizations as weapons”,pg# unavailable – google books)</span>//

//<span class="s2">The network-centric operational concept relies on robust […] </span> operations from the perspective of coordinated actions in organizations//



//**Effective Net Centric Warfare is key to heg, prevents nuclear terror**//

//**Arquilla 10**, Ph.D., International Relations from Stanford University, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School (John, “The New Rules of War,” March 2010, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war_]])//

//<span class="s7">**Almost 20 years ago, I began a debate about networks […]** </span><span class="s4"> **and acted in time to shape it, saving the world from darkness.**</span>//


//**An nuclear terror attack is inevitable in the next decade**//
//<span class="s9">Graham </span>**Allison, Harvard University, 07**//
//[Graham Allison, Professor of Government and Former Director of the Belfer Center, Harvard University, “Symposium: Apocalypse When?” Lexis]//

//<span class="s3">MUELLER IS entitled to his opinion that the threat […] </span><span class="s4">if you have any doubt about the ability of terrorists to deliver a weapon</span> to an American target, <span class="s4">remember: They could hide it in a bale of marijuana</span>.//


//**Terror Causes extinction**//
//**Ayson 10,** Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,”// Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
<span class="s11">But these two nuclear worlds—</span><span class="s4">a non-state actor nuclear […] preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.</span>




**Plus developing a launch mechanism is key to heg**
<span class="s12">**Burton**, **2007**</span> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)

Control of the space launch market has been attempted in the past and may be attempted in the future[…] <span class="s3">**ability to use commercial communications, imagery or other services would be significantly limited.**</span>


**Threats are real and inevitable—heg is key to solve multiple scenarios for war, and promotes democracy**
<span class="s10">**Thayer 6**</span>**- Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs** <span class="s14"> (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring […] As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.





**Yes hegemonic transition war**
Barry <span class="s15">**Posen and**</span> Andrew <span class="s15">**Ross**</span>,19<span class="s15">**97**</span>, Professor of Political Science, MIT; Professor of International Security, US Naval War College, International Security, Winter

The United States can, more easily than most, go it alone. […] with unpleasant effects even for those not directly involved.

====PGS==== 
**The government has only cut our prompt global strike capabilities**
<span class="s1">**Air Force Magazine 6/20**</span><span class="s2">/11 (“House Lawmakers Cut Prompt-Strike Funding”, <span class="s3">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/DRArchive/Pages/2011/June%202011/June%2020%202011/HouseLawmakersCutPrompt-StrikeFunding.aspx%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.airforce-magazine.com/DRArchive/Pages/2011/June%202011/June%2020%202011/HouseLawmakersCutPrompt-StrikeFunding.aspx]]</span>, yeeemanth)</span>
<span class="s4">House Lawmakers Cut Prompt-Strike Funding […] to strike high-value targets anywhere on the globe within about 40 minutes of launch</span><span class="s5">. (HAC report; caution, large file)</span>


**But- Responsive space capabilities give us the tech to do it**
**Doggrell 06,** Engineer with the Aerospace Corporation, Les, Senior Project Engineer with the the Aerospace Corporation which supports the Headquarters Air Force Space Command’s Directorate of Plans and Requirements, “Operationally Responsive Space: A Vision for the Future of Military Space,” Air & Space Power Journal, Summer) ([[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj%20/apj06/sum06/doggrell.html|http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj /apj06/sum06/doggrell.html]])
<span class="s4">Development of responsive space may in turn enable new concepts</span><span class="s6">. </span><span class="s4">[…] the way we perform traditional space missions</span><span class="s7">.</span>


**Specifically this is true with the nanomissile**
**Gresham and Gorman 11**
<span class="s8">[</span>John D. Gresham - author, researcher, game designer, photographer, and military commentator with numerous publishing, design, speaking, and television appearance credits in his portfolio.<span class="s8"> Shawna Gorman writer for Defense media network, 8/24/11, [[http://www.defensemedianetwork.com/stories/nanomissile/]]]</span>
Since the launch of Explorer 1, America’s first Earth-orbiting satellite, in 1958, […] <span class="s9">such hopes by field commanders may finally be fulfilled. </span>



**Their Impact turns are non-starters- we aren’t an ICBM**
<span class="s7">**GSN**</span> 4/7/<span class="s7">**11**</span>(Global Security Newswire, Citing DOD Reports, “Pentagon Revises Prompt Global Strike Effort”, [[http://gsn.nti.org/gsn/nw_20110407_4669.php]])

<span class="s10">The</span> U.S. <span class="s10">Defense Department has elected not […] </span> 2016 for research and development of these options (Tom Collina, Arms Control Today, April 2011).


**CPGS prevents nuclear war**

**Lieber & Press 9** (Keir A. Lieber, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, Daryl G. Press, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, November-December, Foreign Affairs, “The Nukes We Need: Preserving the American Deterrent,” p. 50-51, da 11/16)

<span class="s8">This second criticism has merit. Nevertheless,</span> <span class="s4">[…] strategic position abroad rests largely on a bluff. </span>


**The leadership transition in Korea is shaky- Kim Jong Un will pick fights in an attempt to maintain control**
**Korean Herald 1/2**
[Korean Herald Newspaper, 1/2/12, [[http://www.koreaherald.com/national/Detail.jsp?newsMLId=20120102000278]]]

<span class="s11">North Korea’s new leadership began [..]</span> closely watching how Operation Reincarnation works in the North.



**Status quo ensures North Korean nuclear capabilities – the plan is the only solution**
**Wolf 11**
[Jim Wolf, Journalist for Reuters, 12/28/11//,// [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/12/28/us-korea-north-nuclear-idUSTRE7BR00520111228|//http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/12/28/us-korea-north-nuclear-idUSTRE7BR00520111228//]]]

<span class="s11">North Korea</span> likely <span class="s11">is closer to mounting […] </span> said in interviews with Reuters.

**North Korea war causes extinction**
**Hayes and Green, 10** - *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5,**
**[["|http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)*Religous]] Censored**

**<span class="s9">The consequences of failing to […] </span> The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.**

And it escalates to global nuclear use
Landay 2k
**Jonathan S. Landay (national security and intelligence correspondent for the Contra Costa Times) March 10, 2000, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” Lexis**
**Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, […] billion last year, according to the Commerce Department**

Status quo nuclear deterrence fails
Payne 09
**Dr. Keith Payne 9, Study Director & President of the National Institute for Public Policy, Dr. Kathleen Bailey, Former Assistant Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Mr. Kurt Guthe, Director of Strategic Studies at NIPP, Dr. Robert Joseph, Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security, US Department of State, Ms. Stephanie Koeshall, Analyst at NIPP, Mr. Tom Scheber, VP of NIPP, Dr. Mark Schneider, Senior Vice President at the International Crisis Group, Dr. Andrei Shoumikhin, Senior Analyst at NIPP, and Mr. Henry Sokolski, Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center , “Planning the Future U.S. Nuclear Force”, Volume I: Executive Report, National Institute Press, October 2009,[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/Planning%20the%20Future%20US%20Nuclear%20Force%20I_txt.pdf]]**

**The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction […] you care a lot more about Los Angeles than Taipei.” 1**


PGS bolsters our deterrence credibility against North Korea
Bunn and Manzo 11
**[ M. Elaine Bunn is a Distinguished research fellow in the Center for Strategic research (CSr), institute for national Strategic Studies, at the national Defense University. Vincent a. Manzo is a research analyst in CSr. , “ Conventional Prompt Global Strike: Strategic Asset or Unusable Liability?”, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/StrForum/SF-263.pdf]], February 2011]**

**<span class="s12">Advocates argue </span><span class="s4">that CPGS could fill this alleged “capability gap” in the U.S[…] leader that we might actually employ other means</span><span class="s8">. 29 </span>**


And- we’d be able to take out their launchers in a worst case scenario
Sanger and Shanker 10**
[David Sanger and Thom Shanker, Reporters for the New York Times, 2/28/10, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/01/us/politics/01nuke.html?pagewanted=all]]]
<span class="s8">Mr. </span><span class="s4">Obama’s decisions on nuclear weapons […] to avoid having them place their own nuclear forces on high alert.</span>

====Solvency==== 
**Nanosatellites are inevitable but no launch meachanism means they won’t be deployed**
**Kelley 10/26**
[Mike Kelley, Staff Writer for Alabama Live, 10/26/11, " Small satellites help Army see and communicate better, says symposium panel” [[http://www.al.com/42/index.ssf/2011/10/small_satellites_help_army_see.html]]]

<span class="s1">The military has awakened</span><span class="s2"> – in a big way – </span><span class="s1">[…] We'd like to see a situation where range costs equal vehicle costs."</span>


**But the nanomissile reverses this- solves reconstitution**
<span class="s3">**Hawkins, 2011**</span> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)

Currently, there are plans to fly three of those satellites in the 2012 time frame […] , with how the Army will adapt to this technology.”


**And – Nanosatellites and rapid reconstitution is critical to effective space deterrence- only the plan solves**
<span class="s3">**Colon, 2010**</span> (Miguel, Lt. Colonel United States Air Force, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral, “Deterrence 2035 – the Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats”, <span class="s4">[[https://www.afresearch.org]]</span>)

A New Approach to Space Deterrence […] <span class="s5"> **effectively deterring**</span> him.



**Claims of imperialism are wrong- the U.S. military is a force for peace**
<span class="s6">**Barnett, 11**</span><span class="s7"> - </span>chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies (Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” 3/7, <span class="s8">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>)
Events in Libya are a further reminder for Americans that <span class="s9">[…] from state-based conflicts.</span>
===1AC MBA Octas=== 
====Power Projection==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable to asymmetric destruction</span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test of a Chinese ground-based</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">direct </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – These vulnerabilities make space weaponization and conflict inevitable</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given the great extent to which the […] follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That kills our ability to project power</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space assets are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">most critical […] in the military</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the last decade.5</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically system failure is inevitable without the plan</span>**</span>







<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIA 11</span>**</span>







<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aerospace Industries of Association of America Inc, 2011, [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]]</span>







Space is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> certainly </span>becoming<span class="Underline"> more</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> contested, </span>congeste<span style="font-size: 8pt;">d[…] </span><span class="Underline">at a time when other nations are rapidly modernizing their own space infrastructure.</span>





**Threats are real and inevitable—heg is key to solve multiple scenarios for war**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thayer 6</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the […]4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.</span>


**Decline triggers positional competition and war – bargaining becomes impossible**

<span class="s1">**Wohlforth ‘9**</span> – Professor of government @ Dartmouth College ([[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/world_politics/v061/61.1|William C.]], January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, Pg. 33-35)



Second, I question the dominant view that status quo evaluations are relatively independent of the distribution of capabilities[…] <span class="s2">the search for status will cause people to behave in ways that directly contradict their material interest in security and</span>/or <span class="s2">prosperity</span>.


====CPGS==== 


<span class="s3">**Contention 2** </span>
**Contention 2 is prompt global strike**
**There are no pgs capabilites now - but responisve systems allow us to integrate them into the current architecture**
**Doggrell 06,** Engineer with the Aerospace Corporation, Les, Senior Project Engineer with the the Aerospace Corporation which supports the Headquarters Air Force Space Command’s Directorate of Plans and Requirements, “Operationally Responsive Space: A Vision for the Future of Military Space,” Air & Space Power Journal, Summer) ([[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj%20/apj06/sum06/doggrell.html|http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj /apj06/sum06/doggrell.html]])
<span class="s3">Development of responsive space may in turn enable new concepts</span><span class="s8">. </span><span class="s3">[…] will transform the way we perform traditional space missions</span><span class="s9">.</span>


**Specifically, the nanomissile means an effective way reaching CPGS capabilites**
**Gresham and Gorman 11**
<span class="s10">[</span>John D. Gresham - author, researcher, game designer, photographer, and military commentator with numerous publishing, design, speaking, and television appearance credits in his portfolio.<span class="s10"> Shawna Gorman writer for Defense media network, 8/24/11, [[http://www.defensemedianetwork.com/stories/nanomissile/]]]</span>
Since the launch of Explorer 1, America’s first Earth-orbiting satellite, in 1958 […] <span class="s2"> such hopes by field commanders may finally be fulfilled. </span>



**CPGS mean the risk of nuclear war becomes zero – we never use nukes if we have effective counterforce**
**Friedman 11 (**Jonah, //Research Intern for the Project on Nuclear Issues, CSIS,// 8-19-11, The Case for Conventional Prompt Global Strike,[[http://csis.org/blog/case-conventional-prompt-global-strike]])

<span class="s8">Last week, the </span><span class="s3">Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency […] It makes more sense to be prepared to face admittedly unlikely but plausible scenarios than to remain unprepared due to exaggerated concerns over strategic stability.</span>

**Scenario 1 – nuclear terror**
**PGS solves it**
<span class="s11">**Sinha** 9/18</span>/**11** (Alankrita, IPCS (Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies) conducts independent research on conventional and non-conventional security issues in the region and shares its findings with policy makers and the public. It provides a forum for discussion with the strategic community on strategic issues and strives to explore alternatives. Moreover, it works towards building capacity among young scholars for greater refinement of their analyses of South Asian security, “Prompt Global Strike And US Deterrence Post 9/11 – Analysis”, <span class="s6">[[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.eurasiareview.com/18092011-prompt-global-strike-and-us-deterrence-post-911-analysis/%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.eurasiareview.com/18092011-prompt-global-strike-and-us-deterrence-post-911-analysis/]]</span>,)
<span class="s7">. </span><span class="s3">The current security environment demands that the US employ a […] but have little relevance today. A conventional extension to an already strong nuclear deterrent has been a step in this direction.</span>
**Stops inevitable attack - that'll come by 2013**
<span class="s11">**Allison 10**</span><span class="s12"> **-** </span>Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th,<span class="s13">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0]]</span>
In his first speech to the U.N. Security Council<span class="s14">, U.S. President Barack </span>Obama challenged members to think about the impact of a single nuclear bomb<span class="s14">. […] </span><span class="s15"> but only by realistic recognition of the threat, a clear agenda for action, and relentless determination to pursue it.</span>
**Nuclear war**
Robert **<span class="s11">Ayson</span>,** Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, <span class="s11">20**10**</span> (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
<span class="s16">A terrorist nuclear attack</span>, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by the country attacked in the first place […] although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.


**Scenario 2 is counterforce**

**And PGS is key to counterforce credibility**
**Lieber and Press 09**
<span class="s17">[</span>Keir A. Lieber, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, Daryl G. Press, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania,November/December <span class="s17">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/65481/keir-a-lieber-and-daryl-g-press/the-nukes-we-need]]]</span>
<span class="s3">The United States also needs conventional counterforce weapons</span><span class="s8">[…] </span><span class="s3"> with minimal collateral damage</span><span class="s18">, although with only a fair chance of success. </span>

**And so are our satellites capabilites - they allow us tracking and accurate posturing**
**Lieber and Press 06**
<span class="s17">[</span>Lieber, Keir A., Press, Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program<span class="s17"> “The End of MAD?” 2006, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/is3004_advanceproof_lieberandpress.pdf]]]</span>

<span class="s17">Offensive strike systems. </span><span class="s9">[…]</span>55 The United States is also planning to upgrade its ICBM force. It will take reentry vehicles and warheads from retired MX missiles and use them to upgrade approximately 200 Minuteman ICBMs. The upgrade will improve the ICBM’s accuracy and nearly double its warhead yield.


**Deters all nuclear war**

**Lieber & Press 9** (Keir A. Lieber, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, Daryl G. Press, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, November-December, Foreign Affairs, “The Nukes We Need: Preserving the American Deterrent,” p. 50-51, da 11/16)

<span class="s10">This second criticism has merit. Nevertheless,</span> <span class="s3">[…] the United States’ strategic position abroad rests largely on a bluff. </span>

**Their Impact turns are non-starters- our mechanism is boost glide- not ICBM**
<span class="s9">**GSN**</span> 4/7/<span class="s9">**11**</span>(Global Security Newswire, Citing DOD Reports, “Pentagon Revises Prompt Global Strike Effort”, [[http://gsn.nti.org/gsn/nw_20110407_4669.php]])

<span class="s19">The</span> U.S. <span class="s19">Defense Department has elected not to incorporate standard ballistic missile […] </span>The Pentagon expects to spend roughly $2 billion from 2011 to 2016 for research and development of these options (Tom Collina, Arms Control Today, April 2011).

<span class="s3">**1ac- Plan**</span>


**Thus the plan –**
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of nanosatellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere through the Multipurpose NanoMissile System.**




<span class="s3">**1AC- Solvency**</span>


**Solvency –**
**Nanosatellites are inevitable but no launch meachanism means they won’t be deployed**
**Kelley 10/26**
[Mike Kelley, Staff Writer for Alabama Live, 10/26/11, " Small satellites help Army see and communicate better, says symposium panel” [[http://www.al.com/42/index.ssf/2011/10/small_satellites_help_army_see.html]]]

<span class="s3">The military has […] "We'd like to see a situation where range costs equal vehicle costs."</span>


**But the nanomissile reverses this- solves reconstitution**
<span class="s20">**Hawkins, 2011**</span> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)

Currently, there are plans to fly three of those satellites in the 2012 time frame[…], with how the Army will adapt to this technology.”


**And – Nanosat launch-platform is critical to both effective space deterrence and to a robust aerospace industry – only the plan solves**
<span class="s20">**Colon, 2010**</span> (Miguel, Lt. Colonel United States Air Force, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral, “Deterrence 2035 – the Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats”, <span class="s8">[[https://www.afresearch.org]]</span>)

<span class="s10">A New Approach to Space Deterrence The book entitled //Complex Deterrence// […] </span><span class="s3">**Only then will the adversary’s gain/loss assessment dictate not to attack; effectively deterring**</span><span class="s10"> him.</span>


**And – There is no way to resolve vulnerability while maintaining a small number of large satellites – deploying clusters of rapidly reconstitutable nanosats is the only way to make our space systems virtually indestructible**
<span class="s20">**Armstrong, 2010**</span> (Mekesha, Major in the U.S. Military, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)


<span class="s3">**The US’s increasing economic and military reliance on space creates a vulnerability that is an attractive target […]** **must be considered if the U.S military wants to continue to maintain the ultimate high ground -- space.**</span>



**Plus no launch mech kills leadership and the economy**
<span class="s20">**Burton**, **2007**</span> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)

Control of the space launch market has been attempted in the past and may be attempted in the future[…] <span class="s22">**ability to use commercial communications, imagery or other services would be significantly limited.**</span>

**Space arms treaties fail**
<span class="s1">**O’Hanlon 11** </span>(Michael, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Looks like Evan McCarty, “Chapter 21: Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/p|http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)

<span class="s8">One type of </span><span class="s3">arms control accord on activities in […] over time, a possible need for such a weapon cannot be ruled out. </span>



===1AC MBA=== 
====1AC - START==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable to asymmetric destruction</span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test of a Chinese ground-based</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">direct </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – These vulnerabilities make space weaponization and conflict inevitable</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given the great extent to which the […] follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4</span>


<span class="Underline">**Even if attacks don’t take out our satellites, debris will and there’s nothing we can do**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Sample 11**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ian Sample, Science Correspondent for the Guarding, 9/1/11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2011/sep/01/space-junk-rising-exponentially-earth]]]</span>



<span class="Underline">The amount of junk in </span>space is rising exponentially<span class="Underline">, </span>with continuous <span class="Underline">[…] Mission </span>controllers can alter the orbits<span class="Underline"> of the ISS and some satellites to avoid collisions, </span>but this is not<span class="Underline"> always </span>effective.







<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically system failure is inevitable without the plan</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIA 11</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aerospace Industries of Association of America Inc, 2011, [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]]</span>



Space is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> certainly </span>becoming<span class="Underline"> more</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> contested, </span>congeste<span style="font-size: 8pt;">d[…] </span><span class="Underline">at a time when other nations are rapidly modernizing their own space infrastructure.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Its going well for now- verification through satellites is key</span>**
<span class="officialsname">**Gottemoeller, 9/9/2011**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rose, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, “Russia and the West: Moving the Reset Forward”, September 9, 2011, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/172055.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The New START Treaty implementation is […]verification regime works, and is setting an important precedent for future agreements.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Now let’s look to the next steps.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Sustained verification is critical to maintain START success</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Woolf, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Amy F., Specialist in Nuclear Weapons Policy, “Monitoring and Verification in Arms Control”, Congressional Research Service, December 23, 2010, [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/source_docs/us/congress/congressional_research_service/54]] .pdf)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Verification is the process that one country uses to assess whether another country is complying with an arms control agreement […] to confirm compliance and to foster cooperation and transparency.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – START would quickly collapse if our verification network becomes compromised</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thielman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Greg, Senior Fellow at the Arms Control Association, “New START Verification: Fitting the Means to the Ends”, http://www.armscontrol.org/system/files/TAB_START_Verification.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The object of arms control verification provisions is to give each party to a […] </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the potential for escalation of tensions in crises can increase.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – The plan is critical to bolster the START verification regime</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lake, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Eli, Geopolitical Desk for Washington Times, “Intel: No arms treaty means U.S. may divert satellites to cover Russia”, November 18, http://m.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/nov/18/more-spy-satellites-sought-from-hill/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But Ms. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">DeSutter, noting that New START calls […] </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the Russians historically cheated on arms control treaties.</span>__**

**Losing visibility causes accidental launch**
<span class="underline0">Bergmann 10</span> (Max, September 15, pg. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/09/conservatives_newstart.html)

<span class="underline0">The danger from </span>losing <span class="underline0">such </span>visibility <span class="underline0">is that it </span>will create <span class="underline0">[…] be ratified as quickly as possible to </span>maintain nuclear stability.

**Russian Accident launch causes escalation & Extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">Starr, 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility (Steven, “Eliminate High-Alert, Launch-Ready Nuclear Weapons,” http://www.nucleardarkness.org/solutions/eliminatehighalertnuclearweapons/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resolution L.5: Decreasing the operational readiness of nuclear weapons systems It is clear from the historical record that </span>[…] No nation or nations have the right to jeopardize the survival of humanity and life on Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1AC - Net Centric Warfare</span>==== 
**Obama is already downsizing for Net Centric Operations, but ACTUALLY investing in the technology is key to make the transition**
**Bumiller and Shanker 1/5**
[Elisabeth Bumiller and Tham Shanker, reporters for the New York Times,1/5/12, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/06/us/obama-at-pentagon-to-outline-cuts-and-strategic-shifts.html?_r=1]]]

<span class="s1">President </span><span class="s2">Obama has</span><span class="s1"> for the first time </span><span class="s2">[…] **intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance**. </span>


**Nanosatellties are key to combat adaptiveness which ensures future successful warfare**
**Messervy 10** (Deputy Commander, Research, Development and Acquisition, “Maintaining the Advantage: Ensuring Superiority in the Battlefield,” 2010 Fall/Winter 2011 edition , <span class="s3">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA538980&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)

<span class="s2">Beyond cost, **other appealing aspects of nanosatellites […]** to assure a continued technical superiority on the battlefield. </span>


<span class="s2">**Specifically key to net centric warfare capabilities, these are key to effective warfighting**</span>
<span class="s4">**Mandeles 05** </span><span class="s2">(Mark David, Mark D. Mandeles, PH.D., is the president of J. de Bloch Group, a defense consulting firm. He has been a professor of security studies at the American Military University and has had a long and distinguished career in academe and as a defense analyst., “The future of war: organizations as weapons”,pg# unavailable – google books)</span>

<span class="s4">The network-centric operational […] </span> This chapter next examines some issues about which most analysts are silent, first exploring a few aspects of military operations from the perspective of human cognition and then exploring military operations from the perspective of coordinated actions in organizations



**Effective Net Centric Warfare deters future war, prevents nuclear terror**

**Arquilla 10**, Ph.D., International Relations from Stanford University, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School (John, “The New Rules of War,” March 2010, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war_]])

<span class="s6">**Almost 20 years ago[…]** </span><span class="s2"> **caught glimpses of the future and acted in time to shape it, saving the world from darkness.**</span>

**Terror Causes extinction**
**Ayson 10,** Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” //Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
<span class="s8">But these two nuclear worlds—</span><span class="s2">[…] preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.</span>


**Net-centric operations key to naval power**
<span class="s9">**Burch ‘8**</span> (Eric Burch, Master Chief Petty Officer, Information Technology Specialist (ITCM), U.S. Navy, citing a November 2002 U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings article by Vice Admiral Mike Bucchi, U.S. Navy (Ret), and Admiral Mike Mullen, U.S. Navy; “Explanation of Key Maritime Transformational Concepts,” Combined Joint Operations from the Sea, NATO Center of Excellence, March 2008,[[https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/COE/Individual/CJOS/MaritimeIn/MaritimeTr]])

<span class="s10">SEA SHIELD embraces emerging technologies and […] </span><span class="s4"> **in the decades ahead, providing stability and security**</span> <span class="s2">in an uncertain century</span><span class="s10">.</span>

**Naval power solves extinction**
**Conway et al , 07**- *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf, )

This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower […] <span class="s2"> unconventionally, and with nuclear forces.</span>


<span class="s1">**Specifically nanosatellites prevent maritime biological terrorism** </span>
<span class="s1">**Mantzouris 10** - PhD Candidate, US Naval Postgraduate School (June 2010, Georgios, 15th International Command & Control Research & Technology Symposium, “Micro and Pico Satellites in Maritime Interdiction Operations,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA525245)RK</span>

<span class="s1">1. Introduction</span>
<span class="s2">Maritime security has been a hot subject in the field of maritime arena. […] </span><span class="s1">Tubesat will be a critical part in our MIO Testbed for conducting the experiments.</span>

Causes extinction
<span class="s3">**Sandberg et al 8**</span>—Research Fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University. PhD in computation neuroscience, Stockholm—AND—Jason G. Matheny—PhD candidate in Health Policy and Management at Johns Hopkins. special consultant to the Center for Biosecurity at<span class="s4"> the University of Pittsburgh—AND—Milan M. Ćirković—senior research associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade. Assistant professor of physics at the University of Novi Sad. (Anders, How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?, 9 September 2</span>008, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction)

The risks from anthropogenic hazards appear at present larger than those from natural ones. […] <span class="s2">the likelihood may increase as biotechnologies</span> continue to <span class="s2">improve </span>at a rate rivaling Moore's Law.

**Net centric warfare is a framing issue- with it we can deter all future wars**
<span class="s1">**Chang-hee 5**</span>
(Chang-hee Nam, professor of Inha University, South Korea, who formerly worked for the Korea Institute f or Defense Analysis, “The Realignment of the USFK in the Military Transformation and South Korea's Defense Reform 2020”, [[http://www.nids.go.jp/english/event/symposium/pdf/2005/e2005_05.pdf]])

<span class="s6">By contrast with the LPP, the relocation of the 2 nd [..] </span><span class="s1">**the potential adversary would no longer retain the will to fight, or would be so disoriented that they can no longer fight or react coherently. 11**</span>

**And the plan’s key to Airforce Primacy**
**Lambeth, 11** – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

<span class="s12">Thus far in this discussion, […] </span> rather than merely a catchy vision statement with great promise.4

**That deters nuclear war in asia**
<span class="s13">**Tellis 98**</span> (Ashley, Senior Political Scientist – RAND, “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century”, http://www.rand. org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)
This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that <span class="s7">American […] </span>a will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report.

**Asian war goes global and nuclear**
**Landay 2k**
Jonathan S. Landay (national security and intelligence correspondent for the Contra Costa Times) March 10, 2000, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” Lexis
Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight[…] Numerous U.S. firms and millions of American jobs depend on trade with Asia that totaled $600 billion last year, according to the Commerce Department



===1AC GBX Round 6=== 


====1AC Satellite Vulnerability==== 
Contention one is satellite vulnerability -

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable to asymmetric destruction </span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test of a Chinese ground-based</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">direct </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – These vulnerabilities make space weaponization and conflict inevitable </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given the great extent to which the […] follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooperation can’t solve vulnerability- only hardening </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haddick, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space”, Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of Defense released its first-ever National Security Space Strategy (NSSS […] </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">space assets</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or develop terrestrial work-arounds that avoid its vulnerabilities in space. Those costly solutions could not come at a worse time for the Pentagon's budget masters.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Even if attacks don’t take out our satellites, debris will and there’s nothing we can do** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Sample 11** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ian Sample, Science Correspondent for the Guarding, 9/1/11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2011/sep/01/space-junk-rising-exponentially-earth]]]</span>

<span class="Underline"> The amount of junk in </span>space is rising exponentially<span class="Underline">, </span>with continuous <span class="Underline"> […] Mission </span>controllers can alter the orbits<span class="Underline"> of the ISS and some satellites to avoid collisions, </span>but this is not<span class="Underline"> always </span>effective.



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically system failure is inevitable without the plan </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIA 11 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aerospace Industries of Association of America Inc, 2011, [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]]</span>

Space is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> certainly </span>becoming<span class="Underline"> more</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> contested, </span>congeste<span style="font-size: 8pt;">d[…] </span><span class="Underline">at a time when other nations are rapidly modernizing their own space infrastructure. </span>


====1AC Power Projection==== 
Contention two is heg

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of satellite defenses kills military power</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kittfield, 2010</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, Senior Correspondent at the National Journal, “Crowded Congested Space”, Air Force Magazine, August, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the “commons” above Earth, US military forces must deal with junk and</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">potential predators </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> tech</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nology</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by buying time on commercial satellites. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Secure net works are key to warfighting</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space assets are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">most critical […] in the military</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the last decade.5 </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Collapse of power projection triggers great power nuclear wars</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhang and Shi, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming[…] This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>

**Threats are real and inevitable—heg is key to solve multiple scenarios for war**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thayer 6</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs </span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the […]4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>


====1AC Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty==== 
CONTENTION 3 – Start

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Its going well for now- verification through satellites is key </span>**
<span class="officialsname">**Gottemoeller, 9/9/2011**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rose, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, “Russia and the West: Moving the Reset Forward”, September 9, 2011, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/172055.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The New START Treaty implementation is […]verification regime works, and is setting an important precedent for future agreements.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Now let’s look to the next steps. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Sustained verification is critical to maintain START success </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Woolf, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Amy F., Specialist in Nuclear Weapons Policy, “Monitoring and Verification in Arms Control”, Congressional Research Service, December 23, 2010, [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/source_docs/us/congress/congressional_research_service/54]] .pdf)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Verification is the process that one country uses to assess whether another country is complying with an arms control agreement […] to confirm compliance and to foster cooperation and transparency.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – START would quickly collapse if our verification network becomes compromised </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thielman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Greg, Senior Fellow at the Arms Control Association, “New START Verification: Fitting the Means to the Ends”, http://www.armscontrol.org/system/files/TAB_START_Verification.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The object of arms control verification provisions is to give each party to a […] </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the potential for escalation of tensions in crises can increase.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – The plan is critical to bolster the START verification regime </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lake, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Eli, Geopolitical Desk for Washington Times, “Intel: No arms treaty means U.S. may divert satellites to cover Russia”, November 18, http://m.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/nov/18/more-spy-satellites-sought-from-hill/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But Ms. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">DeSutter, noting that New START calls […] </span>__** **__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the Russians historically cheated on arms control treaties.</span>__**

**Losing visibility causes accidental launch**
<span class="underline0">Bergmann 10</span> (Max, September 15, pg. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/09/conservatives_newstart.html)

<span class="underline0">The danger from </span>losing <span class="underline0">such </span>visibility <span class="underline0">is that it </span>will create <span class="underline0">[…] be ratified as quickly as possible to </span>maintain nuclear stability.

**Russian Accident launch causes escalation & Extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">Starr, 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility (Steven, “Eliminate High-Alert, Launch-Ready Nuclear Weapons,” http://www.nucleardarkness.org/solutions/eliminatehighalertnuclearweapons/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resolution L.5: Decreasing the operational readiness of nuclear weapons systems It is clear from the historical record that </span>[…] No nation or nations have the right to jeopardize the survival of humanity and life on Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Start failure causes s-300 airmissile sale to IRAN
Weingarten 10
[Elizabeth Weingarten, editorial assistant at Slate. She formerly wrote for and produced The Atlantic's International channel, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/11/the-iran-start-connection/66908/]], “The Iran-Start Connection”, 11/22/10]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__This is a pivotal moment__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in not just U.S.-Russia relations, but […] </span> __then Russia loses the incentive to prioritize quashing Iran's nuclear program over maintaining positive ties with the country.__


S-300 Sales cause Iran-Israel War- no risk of limited conflict
UPI 09
[United Press International,8/19/09, [[http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Special/2009/08/19/Russia-may-nix-S-300-sale-to-Iran/UPI-89221250708513/]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russian President Dmitry </span>__Medvedev's reported promise to____[…] and that all of them will hit those critical spots with precision."__



It escalates globally and causes biowarfare
<span class="underline0">Alexander 8</span> (Timothy, July 6, pg. http://www.rense.com/general82/perf.htm)
Regardless of how a war against Iran breaks<span class="underline0"> out, </span>it is likely to <span style="background-color: aqua;">very quickly escalate</span><span class="underline0"> to the usage of WMD</span>[…]<span class="underline0">Expect the regional war in the Middle East to trigger an all out global battle utilizing all forms of weapons of mass destruction within a few months of the initial attacks on Iran</span>
Biowar causes extinction
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 2</span>**(Richard Ochs, ANALYST FOR THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS WORKING GROUP, July 9 2002 -- “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY” -- http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)
**__Of all the weapons of mass destruction__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[…]</span> **__HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.__**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Iran Israel Retaliation also means extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hirsch 06</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of physics @ University of California, San Diego. [Jorge Hirsch, “Israel, Iran and the US: Who Will be Blamed for Nuclear War?,” </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Global Research</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, July 24, 2006, pg. [[@http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2807]].]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the end of course we will all lose. Because </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the nuclear genie, unleashed from its bottle in the war against Iran, will never retreat</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[…] </span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">life on planet Earth, comes to an end</span>**.**



====1AC- Solvency==== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency – </span>**
**Nanosatellites are inevitable but no launch meachanism means they won’t be deployed**
**Kelley 10/26**
[Mike Kelley, Staff Writer for Alabama Live, 10/26/11, " Small satellites help Army see and communicate better, says symposium panel” [[http://www.al.com/42/index.ssf/2011/10/small_satellites_help_army_see.html]]]
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The military has […] We'd like to see a situation where range costs equal vehicle costs."</span>__


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">But the nanomissile reverses this- solves reconstitution </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hawkins, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Currently, there are plans to fly three of those satellites in the 2012 time frame[…] </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The challenges</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> have to do </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">more</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> with </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">internal</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, with how the Army will adapt to this technology.” </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">And – There is no way to resolve vulnerability while maintaining a small number of large satellites – deploying clusters of rapidly reconstitutable nanosats is the only way to make our space systems virtually indestructible </span>**
**__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Armstrong, 2010</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Mekesha, Major in the U.S. Military, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)</span>


**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The US’s increasing economic and military reliance on space creates a […] considered if the U.S military wants to continue to maintain the ultimate high ground -- space.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Nanosat launch-platform is critical to both effective space deterrence and to a robust aerospace industry – only the plan solves </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Colon, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Miguel, Lt. Colonel United States Air Force, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral, “Deterrence 2035 – the Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A New Approach to Space Deterrence […] </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Only then will the adversary’s gain/loss assessment dictate not to attack; effectively deterring</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> him.</span>




**Reconstitution solves debris and deterrence**
**Butterworth, 8** - President, Aries Analytics, Inc. Fellow, George C. Marshall Institute (Robert, “Assuring Space Support Despite ASATs,” [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/575.pdf]]
__Even without enemy action, satellites in orbit might provide less […] the supplements could scarcely be considered escalatory__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

Plus no launch mech kills leadership and the economy
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burton</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, **2007**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Control of the space launch market has been attempted in the past and may be attempted in the future. […] </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">ability to use commercial communications, imagery or other services would be significantly limited.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Economic decline causes war</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span>, EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces[…] </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__difficult__ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">both within and between states</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> __in a__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__dog-eat-dog world.__ </span>

And the plan doesn’t increase debris
**Hellstrom and Eriksson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Analyst at FOI, a research institute under the Swedish Ministry of Defence (Jerker Hellstrom, Mikael Eriksson, “Strategic Outlook 2011”)JCP</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The current situation in space could in some respects be compared to the Wild West[…] </span>__Low-altitude orbits lead automatically to an atmospheric re-entry after a short time and thus generate no new space debris.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space arms treaties fail</span>**
**O’Hanlon 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Looks like Evan McCarty, “Chapter 21: Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One type of </span>__arms control accord on activities in […]__ __over time, a possible need for such a weapon cannot be ruled out.__



===1AC Michigan=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1AC Power Projection Advantage</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable to asymmetric deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and/or destruction</span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test of a Chinese ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – These vulnerabilities make space weaponization and conflict inevitable – potential adversaries will attempt to level the playing field by attacking U.S. space systems, which guarantees rapid escalation</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given the great extent to…in both realms, the crossing of which could lead to reprisals, follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – The lack of effective satellite defense jeopardizes the war-fighting function of our military; space vulnerabilities paralyze communication, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, targeting, timing, and coordination</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kittfield, 2010</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, Senior Correspondent at the National Journal, “Crowded Congested Space”, Air Force Magazine, August, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the “commons” above … satellite technology</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by buying time on commercial satellites.</span>


**Independently lack of launch mechanism kills access to space and eviscerates leadership**
<span class="s1">**Burton**, **2007**</span> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)

Control of the space launch market has been attempted in the past and may be attempted in the future. […] Further, <span class="s2">**should**</span> the <span class="s2">**economic leverage be employed**</span> to gain market share or delay commercial satellite launches, the U.S. military's <span class="s2">**ability to use commercial communications, imagery or other services would be significantly limited.**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Specifically - nanosatellites are the only way to make military supremacy sustainable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Messervy 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Deputy Commander, Research, Development and Acquisition, “Maintaining the Advantage: Ensuring Superiority in the Battlefield,” 2010 Fall/Winter 2011 edition , </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA538980&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Beyond cost, **other appealing aspects of nanosatellites …** technical superiority on the battlefield.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Stable and secure satellite networks are critical to our military’s ability to project power</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space assets are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">most critical … adjunct’’ in the military</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the last decade.5</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Collapse of power projection triggers great power nuclear wars</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhang and Shi, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This does not necessarily … anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – U.S. military predominance prevents multiple scenarios for catastrophic nuclear violence</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, 2007</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Policy Review, August/September)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the world is marked by the persistence of unipolarity, it is ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>__
**And – Their impact turns are non-starters – the U.S. will always attempt to maintain hegemony**
<span class="s1">**Shalmon and Horowitz, 2009**</span> (… Dan, Mike, Total B.A.’s, Orbis, Spring)

<span class="s1">It is important to recognize</span> … role in the global order.24


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1AC - China Miscalc Advantage</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PLA is intent on aggressively competing with U.S. power in space – they are in the process of developing military capabilities and combat strategies that would neutralize our satellite network, collapse nuclear deterrence and guarantee catastrophic conflict</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard D., Senior Fellow at the International Assessment and Strategy Center, January 20, http://www.strategycenter.net/research/pubID.222/pub_detail.asp)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China's</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jan. 11 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…..</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the region's </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">economic growth.</span>__



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – All indicators point to an attack on U.S. assets in space – such a move will rapidly escalate into full-scale U.S.-China war. Our scenario should be methodologically preferred and none-of-their advantage counterplans solve</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel, 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry, Ret. Colonel United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare”, Astropolitics 6; 112-137)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PLA is exploring</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in ….</span> __to defend American interests in space__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, </span>__and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Separation between the PLA and the Chinese government makes crisis-escalation and miscalculation extremely likely</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald, 2011</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program at the U.S. Institute of Peace, “Military and Civil Space Programs in China”, CQ Congressional Testimony, May 11, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Miscalculation ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable.</span>


**AND - Deterrence theorty supports the advantage - the calculus is skewed in the status quo - the plan resets it**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 2006</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, Lt. Colonel – Space Command, U.S. Air Force, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b)</span>
__The erosion of the US ability to execute the …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">recently </span>__stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.57</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – U.S.-China satellite warfare guarantees nuclear escalation</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forden, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Geoffrey, MIT Research Associate, Former UN Weapons Inspector, and Strategic Weapons Analyst with the Congressional Budget Office, “How China Loses the Coming Space War”, January 10, http://blog.wired.com/defense/2008/01/inside-the-chin.html#more)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TheU</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> five </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">satellites</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ….both intentional and mistaken escalation of the conflict into a nuclear war</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> without a clear military goal.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – the guiding impact is extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)
THE high-intensity scenario …., <span style="background-color: lime;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And- even limited china exchange causes extinction</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Takai, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What would happen</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">if China</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">launched</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">….is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Space is unique – none of their generic U.S.-China defense applies</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Everett, Ph.D. and Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”, September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576,)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The coming war with China ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> LEO will become a global no-fly zone. Both sides will engage and destroy any and all satellites within range, cheaply and effectively.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Our plan’s hedging strategy is based on the most methodologically sound understanding of China. Competing views either misdiagnose the situation or misapply theory</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Siddall, 2000</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alexandra Siddall, Second Secretary, Embassy of Australia in Russia, Ph.D., Department of Government, University of Queensland, “The Misapplication of Defensive Realism: the Security Dilemma and Rising Powers in East Asia”, Paper \Presented at the 42nd Australian Political Studies Association Annual Conference, 10-5-2000, apsa2000.anu.edu.au/confpapers/siddell.rtf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The difficulty for defensive realists is that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in….</span>____<span style="font-size: 4pt;">at the beginning of the twenty-first century.</span>__

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1AC Solvency</span>==== 

**Nanosatellites are inevitable but no launch meachanism means they won’t be deployed**
**Kelley 10/26**
[Mike Kelley, Staff Writer for Alabama Live, 10/26/11, " Small satellites help Army see and communicate better, says symposium panel” [[http://www.al.com/42/index.ssf/2011/10/small_satellites_help_army_see.html]]]

<span class="s1">The military has awakened</span><span class="s2"> – in a big way – </span><span class="s1">to the benefits of small space satellites</span><span class="s2">[…]</span><span class="s1">We'd like to see a situation where range costs equal vehicle costs."</span>

**The nanomissile system reverses this - solves cheap, rapid reconstitution**
<span class="s2">**Hawkins, 2011**</span> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)

Currently, there are plans to fly three of those satellites in the 2012 time frame […] . <span class="s3">**The challenges**</span> have to do <span class="s3">**more**</span> with <span class="s3">**internal**</span>, with how the Army will adapt to this technology.”

**And – There is no way to resolve vulnerability while maintaining a small number of large satellites – deploying clusters of rapidly reconstitutable nanosats is the only way to make our space systems virtually indestructible**
<span class="s2">**Armstrong, 2010**</span> (Mekesha, Major in the U.S. Military, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)

<span class="s4">**The US’s increasing economic and military reliance on space creates a vulnerability that is an attractive target for**</span><span class="s5"> foreign </span><span class="s4">**adversaries** </span><span class="s5">[…] </span><span class="s4">**Multiple, single-basic satellites that crosslink to become a single system, fractionated small satellites,**</span><span class="s5">or even commercial piggybacking </span><span class="s4">**must be considered if the U.S military wants to continue to maintain the ultimate high ground -- space.**</span>


**And – Nanosat launch-platform is critical to both effective space deterrence and to a robust aerospace industry – only the plan solves**
<span class="s2">**Colon, 2010**</span> (Miguel, Lt. Colonel United States Air Force, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral, “Deterrence 2035 – the Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats”, <span class="s7">[[https://www.afresearch.org]]</span>)

A New Approach to Space Deterrence The book entitled //Complex Deterrence// states that deterrence works best among major great-powers and is therefore ineffective against rogue groups or terrorists.[…]. <span class="s3">**Only then will the adversary’s gain/loss assessment dictate not to attack; effectively deterring**</span> him.


**China cooperation is impossible**
Dr. Gregory <span class="s8">**Kulacki**</span>-- senior Analyst & China Program Manager, UCS December 15, <span class="s10">20</span><span class="s8">**10**</span> “Potential for Cooperation with China” “Is China genuinely interested in cooperation on space and space security?” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/cooperation-with-china-on-space-gkulacki.pdf]], JT)
The <span class="s4">Obama</span> administration <span class="s4">seems interested in engaging China on these issues</span> and appears to be making a good-faith effort. […] <span class="s11">The international status Chinese leaders seek through space activity can be obtained without cooperation with the United States</span>.

**And arms control fails**
<span class="s8">**O’Hanlon 11** </span>(Michael, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Looks like Evan McCarty, “Chapter 21: Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, EMM)

<span class="s7">One type of </span><span class="s4">arms control accord on activities in […] over time, a possible need for such a weapon cannot be ruled out.</span>

**And – Nanosatellites are key – to LEO domincance**
<span class="s2">**London, 2010**</span> (John R. London III, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command, with Brent Marley and David J Weeks, SETA Contractors, “Army Nanosatellite Technology Demonstrations For the Tactical Land Warfighter”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA534645)

<span class="s3">Constellations of nanosatellites</span><span class="s4">/ microsatellites </span><span class="s3">could be sufficiently […] </span><span class="s4">Through these demonstrations the command hopes to validate the utility of the emerging trend in satellite miniaturization for the tactical land warfighter</span>

**Only reversing perception of weakness prevents china war**
<span class="s1">**TELLIS 07**</span><span class="s2">, </span>Ashley: Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, former Senior Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation
[“China's Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49:3 p41-72, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]

Finally, <span class="s3">the growing Chinese capability for space warfare implies that a future conflict in the Taiwan Strait […] but to run an offence-defense arms race, and win</span><span class="s4">.</span>

===Alpharetta advantages=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**1AC Space Militirization**</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable to asymmetric deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and/or destruction</span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test of a Chinese ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – These vulnerabilities make space weaponization and conflict inevitable – potential adversaries will attempt to level the playing field by attacking U.S. space systems, which guarantees rapid escalation</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given the great extent to…in both realms, the crossing of which could lead to reprisals, follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – The lack of effective satellite defense jeopardizes the war-fighting function of our military; space vulnerabilities paralyze communication, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, targeting, timing, and coordination</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kittfield, 2010</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, Senior Correspondent at the National Journal, “Crowded Congested Space”, Air Force Magazine, August, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the “commons” above … satellite technology</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by buying time on commercial satellites.</span>


**Independently lack of launch mechanism kills access to space and eviscerates leadership**

<span class="s1">**Burton**, **2007**</span> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)



Control of the space launch market has been attempted in the past and may be attempted in the future. […] Further, <span class="s2">**should**</span> the <span class="s2">**economic leverage be employed**</span> to gain market share or delay commercial satellite launches, the U.S. military's <span class="s2">**ability to use commercial communications, imagery or other services would be significantly limited.**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Stable and secure satellite networks are critical to our military’s ability to project power</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space assets are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">most critical … adjunct’’ in the military</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the last decade.5</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Collapse of power projection triggers great power nuclear wars</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhang and Shi, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This does not necessarily … anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – U.S. military predominance prevents multiple scenarios for catastrophic nuclear violence</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, 2007</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Policy Review, August/September)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the world is marked by the persistence of unipolarity, it is ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – All indicators point to an attack on U.S. assets in space – such a move will rapidly escalate into full-scale U.S.-China war. Our scenario should be methodologically preferred and none-of-their advantage counterplans solve</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel, 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry, Ret. Colonel United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare”, Astropolitics 6; 112-137)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PLA is exploring</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in ….</span> __to defend American interests in space__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, </span>__and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Deterrence theory only supports our advantage; China is not deterred from attacking our space assets because it would leave us incapable of retribution. At the same time, the perception that our space systems are vulnerable to attack collapses both conventional and nuclear deterrence below the mesosphere</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 2006</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, Lt. Colonel – Space Command, U.S. Air Force, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b)</span>

__The erosion of the US ability to execute the …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">recently </span>__stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.57</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – U.S.-China satellite warfare guarantees nuclear escalation</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forden, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Geoffrey, MIT Research Associate, Former UN Weapons Inspector, and Strategic Weapons Analyst with the Congressional Budget Office, “How China Loses the Coming Space War”, January 10, http://blog.wired.com/defense/2008/01/inside-the-chin.html#more)</span>



__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TheU</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> five </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">satellites</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ….both intentional and mistaken escalation of the conflict into a nuclear war</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> without a clear military goal.</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – The impact is extinction and causes indo pak and Russian war</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)

THE high-intensity scenario …., <span style="background-color: lime;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span>







**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And- even limited china exchange causes extinction</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Takai, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What would happen</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">if China</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">launched</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">….is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**1AC Monitoring**</span>==== 
**Status quo monitoring fails- causes arctic conflict and food crises**
<span class="s1">**Parthemore and Rogers ‘11**</span><span class="s2"> **–** *</span>Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security,http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf, NEH)

<span class="s3">The emerging gaps in U.S. earth monitoring will impede the U.S. government’s ability to make</span><span class="s4"> […] </span><span class="s3"> national security policymakers identify areas of the world that are prone to greater instability. </span>

**Food crises cause war**
<span class="s5">**Calvin 98**</span> (William H.; Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences – University of Washington) January "The Great Climate Flip-Flop" Atlantic Monthly 281:1 EBSCO
<span class="s6">The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling […] </span> It could no longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.



**Absent Up-to date earth observation systems, arctic instability is inevitlable**
**IOC 10**
[ Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission for the United Nations, 2010, “Why Monitor the Arctic Ocean?”, [[http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0018/001898/189843e.pdf]]]

<span class="s3">The Arctic is dominated by oceans and coasts </span><span class="s7">[…] </span><span class="s3"> A coordinated observing system must therefore be created for the Arctic Ocean and its coasts, to provide baseline data and ensure sustained monitoring.</span>

**Arctic instability causes u.s. Russia nuclear war-it is the most likely scenario**
<span class="s1">**Staples 9**</span><span class="s8"> – </span>(Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)

<span class="s4">The fact is, </span><span class="s3">the Arctic is becoming an zone of increased military competition </span><span class="s4">[…] </span><span class="s3"> These</span><span class="s4"> claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway </span><span class="s3">– could</span><span class="s7">,</span><span class="s4"> if unresolved, </span><span class="s3">lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons. </span>





**Its an existential risk**
**Bostrom 02**
(Professor of Philosophy, Yale University Nick, “Existential Risks,” http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)

<span class="s3">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. […]</span> Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

**QUICKEST scenario for extinction**
<span class="s9">**Helfand and Pastore 9**</span> [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.
March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]

President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled to Wednesday in London during the G-20 summit. […] The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.


**And Russia aggression makes cooperation impossible**
**Zellen, 07-** Barry, Security Innovator
(“The Polar Show Down: As the Arctic's ice begins to melt, a new race for its undersea resources begins” August 23, 2007 http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387§ionID=43)

<span class="s3">In response to Russia’s aggressive assertion of its claims to the Arctic</span>, Cohen believes that “<span class="s3">legal and diplomatic actions are necessary,”</span> and pointed out that the U.S. State Department has “already expressed its skepticism of planting of the Russian Flag,” and believes the act was “not in legal effect.” […] <span class="s3">these newly discovered energy reserves will play a crucial role in the global energy balance as the existing reserves of oil and gas are depleted over the next 20 years.”</span>



**Nanosatellites solve- they are the best monitoring satellites in town**
**Lee et al 11**
[1. Dr. Regina Lee, York University: expert in ACS and nanosatellite 2. Dr. Sunil Bisnath, York University: expert in Precise Orbit Determination and GPS occultation 3. Mr. Hugh Chesser, York University: expert in structural and thermal design 4. Dr. Anton de Ruiter, Carleton University, expert in ACS and relative navigation system 5. Dr. Scott Gleason, Concordia University, expert in GNSS receiver design and remote sensi, Paper submitted to 2nd Nano- Satellite Symposium for Speech on March 14th 2011, [[http://www.spacemic.net/abstracts/%5BFinalist%5D%20Northern%20Communication%20and%20GPS-based%20science%20Nanosatellite%20constellation%20mission.pdf-|http://www.spacemic.net/abstracts/[Finalist]%20Northern%20Communication%20and%20GPS-based%20science%20Nanosatellite%20constellation%20mission.pdf-]] Article , [[http://www.nanosat.jp/2nd/date/Program.pdf]] – Symposium information]
Note- GNSS= global navigation satellite system

Mission Objectives The primary mission objective is (1) to demonstrate the feasibility of low cost data service using a nanosatellite constellation[…] This know-how will be critical in the design, build-up and maintenance of the constellation

<span class="s2">**Monitoring information now is key to prevent the impact**</span>

<span class="s2"> **Rogers and Gulledge ’10** – *</span><span class="s10">Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security and</span> Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change (Will and Jay, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy,” Center for New American Security, April,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]])

<span class="s3">Change in the Arctic will present significant challenges for the national security community, as summer ice coverage shrinks and increases access to and navigation of the High North</span><span class="s4">. </span><span class="s3">[…] If these communities do not integrate climate science into their decision making today, they may find themselves less well prepared to meet future challenges. </span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1AC Solvency</span>==== 


<span class="s1">**Solvency –** </span>**The Multipurpose NanoMissile System is key to rapid reconstruction funding is only obsticle**
<span class="s2">**Hawkins, 2011**</span> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)

Currently, there are plans to fly three of those satellites in the 2012 time frame […] . <span class="s3">**The challenges**</span> have to do <span class="s3">**more**</span> with <span class="s3">**internal**</span>, with how the Army will adapt to this technology.”

**And – There is no way to resolve vulnerability while maintaining a small number of large satellites – deploying clusters of rapidly reconstitutable nanosats is the only way to make our space systems virtually indestructible**
<span class="s2">**Armstrong, 2010**</span> (Mekesha, Major in the U.S. Military, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)


<span class="s4">**The US’s increasing economic and military reliance on space creates a vulnerability that is an attractive target for**</span><span class="s5"> foreign </span><span class="s4">**adversaries** </span><span class="s5">[…] </span><span class="s4">**Multiple, single-basic satellites that crosslink to become a single system, fractionated small satellites,**</span><span class="s5">or even commercial piggybacking</span><span class="s4">**must be considered if the U.S military wants to continue to maintain the ultimate high ground -- space.**</span>
**And – Nanosat launch-platform is critical to both effective space deterrence and to a robust aerospace industry – only the plan solves**
<span class="s2">**Colon, 2010**</span> (Miguel, Lt. Colonel United States Air Force, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral, “Deterrence 2035 – the Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats”, <span class="s7">[[https://www.afresearch.org]]</span>)

A New Approach to Space Deterrence The book entitled //Complex Deterrence// states that deterrence works best among major great-powers and is therefore ineffective against rogue groups or terrorists.[…]. <span class="s3">**Only then will the adversary’s gain/loss assessment dictate not to attack; effectively deterring**</span> him.


**China cooperation is impossible**
Dr. Gregory <span class="s8">**Kulacki**</span>-- senior Analyst & China Program Manager, UCS December 15, <span class="s10">20</span><span class="s8">**10**</span> “Potential for Cooperation with China” “Is China genuinely interested in cooperation on space and space security?” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/cooperation-with-china-on-space-gkulacki.pdf]], JT)
The <span class="s4">Obama</span> administration <span class="s4">seems interested in engaging China on these issues</span> and appears to be making a good-faith effort. […] <span class="s11">The international status Chinese leaders seek through space activity can be obtained without cooperation with the United States</span>.


**And arms control fails**
<span class="s8">**O’Hanlon 11** </span>(Michael, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Looks like Evan McCarty, “Chapter 21: Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, EMM)

<span class="s7">One type of </span><span class="s4">arms control accord on activities in […] over time, a possible need for such a weapon cannot be ruled out.</span>

**And – Nanosatellites are key – to LEO domincance**
<span class="s2">**London, 2010**</span> (John R. London III, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command, with Brent Marley and David J Weeks, SETA Contractors, “Army Nanosatellite Technology Demonstrations For the Tactical Land Warfighter”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA534645)

<span class="s3">Constellations of nanosatellites</span><span class="s4">/ microsatellites </span><span class="s3">could be sufficiently […] </span><span class="s4">Through these demonstrations the command hopes to validate the utility of the emerging trend in satellite miniaturization for the tactical land warfighter</span>


===1AC Wake Forest=== 

====1AC – Power Projection Advantage==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage One – Power Projection </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable to asymmetric deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and/or destruction </span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test of a Chinese ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – These vulnerabilities make space weaponization and conflict inevitable – potential adversaries will attempt to level the playing field by attacking U.S. space systems, which guarantees rapid escalation </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Given the great extent to…in both realms, the crossing of which could lead to reprisals, follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Even conflicts not involving the U.S. would wipe our satellites out of the sky </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (M.V., USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University, Served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office, Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Spacefaring prowess is a common …to permanent methods of destruction to remove doubt in the minds of commanders.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – The lack of effective satellite defense jeopardizes the war-fighting function of our military; space vulnerabilities paralyze communication, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, targeting, timing, and coordination </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kittfield, 2010</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, Senior Correspondent at the National Journal, “Crowded Congested Space”, Air Force Magazine, August, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the “commons” above … satellite technology</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by buying time on commercial satellites. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Stable and secure satellite networks are critical to our military’s ability to project power </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space assets are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">most critical … adjunct’’ in the military</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the last decade.5 </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Collapse of power projection triggers great power nuclear wars</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhang and Shi, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This does not necessarily … anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – U.S. military predominance prevents multiple scenarios for catastrophic nuclear violence </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, 2007</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Policy Review, August/September)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the world is marked by the persistence of unipolarity, it is ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Their impact turns are non-starters – the U.S. will always attempt to maintain hegemony </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shalmon and Horowitz, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dan, Mike, Total B.A.’s, Orbis, Spring)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is important to /….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">indirect’’ counter-strategies are the rational choice for actors facing a strong state’s power projection, irregular/asymmetric threats are inevitable given America’s role in the global order.24 </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And –Diplomacy and soft power don’t check - hardpath is key</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haddick, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space”, Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of Defense released its …. that avoid its vulnerabilities in space. Those costly solutions could not come at a worse time for the Pentagon's budget masters.</span>

====1AC – China Advantage==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage Two – China</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PLA is intent on aggressively competing with U.S. power in space – they are in the process of developing military capabilities and combat strategies that would neutralize our satellite network, collapse nuclear deterrence and guarantee catastrophic conflict </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard D., Senior Fellow at the International Assessment and Strategy Center, January 20, http://www.strategycenter.net/research/pubID.222/pub_detail.asp)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China's</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jan. 11 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">test </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…..</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the region's </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">economic growth. </span>__



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – All indicators point to an attack on U.S. assets in space – such a move will rapidly escalate into full-scale U.S.-China war. Our scenario should be methodologically preferred and none-of-their advantage counterplans solve </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel, 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry, Ret. Colonel United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare”, Astropolitics 6; 112-137) </span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PLA is exploring</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in ….</span> __to defend American interests in space__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, to engage in mutual threat reduction measures, </span>__and to pursue programs that will ensure that the U.S. military will have access to space in any future conflict__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Separation between the PLA and the Chinese government makes crisis-escalation and miscalculation extremely likely</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald, 2011</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program at the U.S. Institute of Peace, “Military and Civil Space Programs in China”, CQ Congressional Testimony, May 11, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Miscalculation ignites the tinder of fundamental geopolitical tensions </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Deterrence theory only supports our advantage; China is not deterred from attacking our space assets because it would leave us incapable of retribution. At the same time, the perception that our space systems are vulnerable to attack collapses both conventional and nuclear deterrence below the mesosphere</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 2006</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, Lt. Colonel – Space Command, U.S. Air Force, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b)</span>
__The erosion of the US ability to execute the …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">recently </span>__stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.57 </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – U.S.-China satellite warfare guarantees nuclear escalation </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forden, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Geoffrey, MIT Research Associate, Former UN Weapons Inspector, and Strategic Weapons Analyst with the Congressional Budget Office, “How China Loses the Coming Space War”, January 10, http://blog.wired.com/defense/2008/01/inside-the-chin.html#more)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TheU</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> five </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">satellites</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ….both intentional and mistaken escalation of the conflict into a nuclear war</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> without a clear military goal. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – The impact is extinction and causes indo pak and Russian war</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)
THE high-intensity scenario …., <span style="background-color: lime;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Indo-Pak war causes extinction</span>**
Fai, 01<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ghulam Nabi Fai; Kashmiri American Council; July 8, 2001)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The foreign policy of the ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Test Ban Treaty</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, or indicated an inclination to ratify an impending Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Russia war causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">March 31, 2009, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian President …. alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And- even limited china exchange causes extinction</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Takai, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What would happen</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">if China</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">launched</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">….is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Space is unique – none of their generic U.S.-China defense applies </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Everett, Ph.D. and Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”, September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576,) </span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The coming war with China ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> LEO will become a global no-fly zone. Both sides will engage and destroy any and all satellites within range, cheaply and effectively.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – We’ll preempt their counterplan – space arms control fails – insurmountable verification problems prove that arms control has no hope of preventing U.S.-China space conflict </span>**
**O’Hanlon 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Looks like Evan McCarty, “Chapter 21: Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One type of </span>__arms control accord on activities in ,,..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">besides developing destructive ASATs. But </span>__over time, a possible need for such a weapon cannot be ruled out.__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Our plan’s hedging strategy is based on the most methodologically sound understanding of China. Competing views either misdiagnose the situation or misapply theory</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Siddall, 2000</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alexandra Siddall, Second Secretary, Embassy of Australia in Russia, Ph.D., Department of Government, University of Queensland, “The Misapplication of Defensive Realism: the Security Dilemma and Rising Powers in East Asia”, Paper \Presented at the 42nd Australian Political Studies Association Annual Conference, 10-5-2000, apsa2000.anu.edu.au/confpapers/siddell.rtf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The difficulty for defensive realists is that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in….</span>____<span style="font-size: 4pt;">at the beginning of the twenty-first century.</span>__


====1AC – Solvency==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency – </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">The Multipurpose NanoMissile System is key to rapid reconstruction funding is only obsticle</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hawkins, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Currently, there are plans to fly three of … and the talent to do the job. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The challenges</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> have to do </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">more</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> with </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">internal</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, with how the Army will adapt to this technology.” </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Only our Aff solves </span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 2: 220-225)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A robust and </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">responsive space </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">…..</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> on-orbit spares.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Nanosatellites are key – they are survivable, they guarantee a low probability of detection, they have good signal strength in Low-Earth-Orbit, they adapt to changing environments, all while being affordable and maintaining economies of scale</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">London, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (John R. London III, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command, with Brent Marley and David J Weeks, SETA Contractors, “Army Nanosatellite Technology Demonstrations For the Tactical Land Warfighter”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA534645)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Constellations of nanosatellites</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/ microsatellite</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the utility of the emerging trend in satellite miniaturization for the tactical land warfighter.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – the plan discourages attacks from happening in the first place </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schendzielos, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kurt, Major in the U.S. Air Force, School of Advanced Military Studies, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, April 30, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first and most obvious advantage of …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">may actually cause the Chinese and other space adversaries to negotiate and seriously abide by effective and lasting prohibitions against ASATs and space weapons.</span>__


China isn’t cooperating now and never will
Dr. Gregory <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kulacki</span>-- senior Analyst & China Program Manager, UCS December 15, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span> “Potential for Cooperation with China” “Is China genuinely interested in cooperation on space and space security?” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/cooperation-with-china-on-space-gkulacki.pdf]], JT)
The <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Obama</span>__</span> administration <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">seems interested in …</span>__</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;"> cooperation</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> with the U</span>__</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">nited </span>__</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">S</span>__</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">tates</span>__</span>.


==<span style="text-decoration: none;">2AC Stuff- READ ME</span>== 
<span style="text-decoration: none;">So I lack the motivation to post every 2ac cite i've read but feel free to email me at [[mailto:willcaplan@gmail.com|willcaplan@gmail.com]] if there is any 2ac cites you want that I have read should you not see it here. </span>
-Will
===**2AC- Nanotech Bad**=== 
**1. we meet**
**2. Nah. this card's entertaining too.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kieper 07</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Adam, April 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/docLib/TNA16-Keiper.pdf]]</span>, “Nanoethics as a Discipline?”, Asg)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">growing interest</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> among academics a....</span>__ __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Nanosatellites** are just small satellites; they **have even less to do with nanotechnology than Apple’s “iPod nano” does**</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Commentators who are ill-informed or disingenuous or just “shooting from the lip” may, in time, cede the sound bites and the airwaves to the growing ranks of better-informed and more responsible scholars—or at least that’s the theory.</span>


===**2AC AT: Heg Bad**=== 
1. we meet
**And the transition will be violent**
**<span style="color: black;">Khanna, 9</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Director of the Global Governance Initiative at the New America Foundation (Parag, The second world: how emerging powers are redefining global competition in the twenty-first century, p. 337-338)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Even this scenario is optimistic, for superpowers ....</span>
<span style="color: black;">revolutionary situation is now—before the next world war.67</span>



Heg solves prolif

Sokolski ‘09

Henry, Exec Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center and serves on the US congressional Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, “Avoiding a nuclear crowd,” Policy Review, June/July

AT A MINIMUM, such developments will be a …, we may soon see a future that neither the proponents of nuclear abolition, nor their critics, would ever want.


===2AC Prolif Defense=== 
1. we meet
**Prolif will be slow.**
**Tepperman, 2009**
[Jonathan, Newsweek International's first Assistant Managing Editor (now Deputy Editor), “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb” 8-29, <span style="color: black;">http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html</span>, SM]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The risk of an arms race—….</span>__bombs tend to mellow__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> behavior. </span>

**No nuclear chain reactions – empirics and exaggeration.**
**Potter 2008**
[William C. and Mukhatzhanova Gaukhar**,** * Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies and **Research Associate at the James Martin Center,** “**Divining Nuclear Intentions: a review essay.” <span style="color: #141413;">International Security, Vol. 33, No. 1 (Summer 2008), pp. 139–169, </span>Google scholar] CMR**

**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Today </span>__it is hard to find an analyst__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> …. domestic political survival models offer considerable insight into that dimension of the proliferation puzzle.48</span>**

No impact- small arsenals will be stable
Seng, 1998**
[Jordan, PhD Candidate in Pol. Sci. – U. Chicago, Dissertation, “STRATEGY FOR PANDORA'S CHILDREN: STABLE NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION AMONG MINOR STATES”, p.203-206]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, this "state of affairs" is not as …</span>__will be less of a chance that weapons will be launched without a definite__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, informed and unambiguous </span>__decision__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to press that button.</span>
===2AC Holocaust Triv (More H-Triv Cards in Neg Section)=== 
**1. We Meet**
**They said hays and hammel green - we said -**

**Holocaust is a religious term used to refer to the attempted Nazi extermination of the Jewish people. Using the term in any other context destroys it’s meaning**
**Foxman 98** (Abraham, Holocaust survivor and director of the anti-defamation league, NY Times, 10-31-98)

There was a time when memory was sacred, that the words “Hitler”, “Nazi” and “Gestapo” were reserved to describe one of the most horrific events in the history of humankind. […] Holocaust deniers would have them believe that there were no concentration camps, no death camps; that Hitler’s Nazis didn’t have a Final Solution; that it is all just a Jewish conspiracy.

**There are two options: either the neg severs out of the inappropriate comparisons of the 1nc or you reject the neg to preserve Jewish history.**
**Sneidernman 99** (Barney, Prof. of law at University of Manitoba, Manitoba LJ)

Are Jews then guilty of “moral bookkeeping”—do we dismiss the sufferings or all victims of genocide over the ages by determining to keep alive the memory of the Holocaust[…] We do not diminish the tragic fate of others by invoking the “H” word as a shorthand description of our greatest tragedy. Nor do we ask others to include us in their accounts of their people’s martyrdom. All one can do is to recognise and condemn mass killings perpetrated in the name of one or another pernicious ideology.
====New H-Triv 2ac==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Trivialization of the holocaust is a logical fallacy and a d rule- reject them</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Curtis 4</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Gary. Fallacy Files “Ad Nazium” http://www.fallacyfiles.org/adnazium.html)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">almost every heated debate, one side or the other...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> it is often "fighting words". </span>



===2AC PTC impact Defense=== 
**Tax holiday fails – doesn’t improve the economy or repatriate jobs**
**Froomkim 10-13** [Dan Froomkin is senior Washington correspondent for The Huffington Post, Repatriation Tax Holiday Push Shows Congress Turning Deaf Ear To Occupy Wall Street, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/13/repatriation-tax-holiday-corporate-power-occupy-wall-street_n_1000900.html]
But Congress tried almost exactly the same thing in 2004, and it failed. <span class="s1">[…] stock buybacks would be among the least productive for the economy</span> -- and would line the pockets of the super-rich.

**Best evidence hoes aff**
<span class="s2">**Bartlett 11**</span>, (Bruce columnist of the Fiscal Times, was executive director of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress and senior policy analyst in the Reagan White House, “The Case Against a Payroll Tax Cut”, [[http://economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/08/30/the-case-against-a-payroll-tax-cut/]] /// Veevz )

However, <span class="s2">there is no evidence that the lower payroll tax has […] </span> stimulative alternatives to simply extending the temporary payroll tax cut.
===2AC supercomittee=== 
1. We meet

Failure Inevitable
Bennett 10/28
[ Dashiell Bennett- Reporter for The Atlantic Wire, 10/28/11, [[http://www.theatlanticwire.com/national/2011/10/super-committee-doomed/44249/]]]

With less than a month to go before the deadline to produce a debt deal, [...] A near total unwillingness to compromise (and a certain indifference to artificial deadlines) is the reason we got the super committee in the first place.


Next Congress will just repeal them
**Bernstein 10/3**/11 (Jonathan, Washington Post, “Why a supercommittee deficit deal is growing less and less likely”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/why-a-supercommitte|http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/why-a-supercommittee-deficit-deal-is-growing-less-and-less-likely/2011/03/28/gIQA1pP4HL_blog.html]], )

Could growing GOP optimism about 2012 make it less likely that the Congressional supercommittee reaches a “grand bargain” on reducing the deficit? [...] It’s what will happen between the likely failure of the super-committee and what Congress will do to the resultant “triggered” cuts in 2013. It’s yet another way in which the stakes in the 2012 elections are enormously high.

No impact to sequestration
**CSBA 9/29**/11 (Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “How Bad Would Sequestration Be For Defense?”, [[http://www.csbaonlin|http://www.csbaonline.org/2011/09/29/how-bad-would-sequestration-be-for-defense/]], )

Just how bad would sequestration be for the Pentagon? [...] Officials “don’t have to cut blindly.”


Triggers are better than success
Sapp 10/27
[ Eric Sapp -founding partner of the Eleison Group, the main political consulting group working with Democrats , 10/27/11, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/eric-sapp/super-committee-congress_b_1034149.html]]]

You're right. [...]. But starting to blame Republicans now and positioning ourselves to make the best of bad options will.


Super committee is irrelevant- no reason recommendations get implemented
Thompson 10/15
[Loren Thompson , Defense Analyst for AOL, 10/15/11, [[http://defense.aol.com/2011/10/15/five-reasons-the-congressional-super-committee-wont-matter/]]]

They're all wrong. [...] the big cuts currently being discussed aren't going to happen, because almost nobody in Washington supports them.



Spending on the plan isn’t unpopular
**Felt 10** - USAF Commander, Space Test Operations Squadron Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB, New Mexico (Eric, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” High Frontier, May,[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019|http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072]]<span class="s1">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf|.]]</span>[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf|pdf]])

Misperception that space “takes too long and costs too much.” [...] Adding responsive space capabilities to the current space architecture mix will improve the cost and schedule “bang for the buck,” help us better justify the cost and schedule attributes of the current space architecture, or quite possibly both.


Congress Supports
Cahlink 06
[George Cahlink, “Hill Raises Concerns About Space Acquisition, Seeks Alternatives”, Defense Daily, 1/11/06, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_6712/is_6_229/ai_n29244478/]]]
Lawmakers expressed growing dissatisfaction in the fiscal 2006 Defense Authorization Bill with the Defense Department's management of [...] refining requirements and emphasizing risk reduction.

====1AR No impact==== 
**1. We meet**

**No risk of trigger**
<span class="s1">**Eaglen 9/9**</span>/11 (Mackenzie, “Member of Congress on “Doomsday” Defense Cuts: “We're Not Going There”, [["htt|http://battleland.blogs.time.com/2011/09/09/member-of-congress-on-%E2%80%9Cdoomsday%E2%80%9D-defense-cuts-%E2%80%9Cwe%E2%80%99re-not-going-there%E2%80%9D/]], )

<span class="s2">“</span><span class="s3">Defending Defense</span><span class="s2">”[…]</span><span class="s4">**They vowed that under any scenario, the trigger will not be pulled for massive defense cuts**</span><span class="s2">. </span>

**They’ll cut tech, not troops**
**Sahadi 9-30**
Jeanne, “What if the debt committee fails?,” http://money.cnn.com/2011/09/30/news/economy/debt_committee/?source=cnn_bin

<span class="s4">Automatic spending cuts. […] It's unlikely lawmakers would opt to cut much from military pay and other defense personnel expenses</span><span class="s2">.</span>

**No Impact- congress will ignore the cuts-**
**Bennett 10/28**
[ Dashiell Bennett- Reporter for The Atlantic Wire, 10/28/11, [[http://www.theatlanticwire.com/national/2011/10/super-committee-doomed/44249/]]]

<span class="s5">Of course, </span><span class="s4">there's another option that seems the most likely to get bipartisan support: ignoring the triggers</span><span class="s5">.</span><span class="s4">[…] There is some far off</span><span class="s5">, maybe</span><span class="s4"> imagined glimmer of ligh</span><span class="s5">t at the end of the tunnel </span><span class="s4">but not anything you’d want to place a bet on.” </span>



===2AC PGS DA=== 
all the cards in the 1ac

===2AC Heg Bad K=== 
The link of the k alone kills heg
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">KAGAN 98 senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Robert, “The Benevolent Empire,” __Foreign Policy__, summer]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Those contributing to the growing chorus of antihegemony</span> ....<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> champagne corks in celebration of the next American humbling</span>**.**

Their k sanctions genocide
**Willis 95** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ellen, Professor of Journalism & Director of Concentraion in Cultural Reporting and Criticism at NYU, The Village Voice, 12-19-95)</span>
__If intellectuals are more inclined to rise to the__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">discrete....perhaps ethnic partition is simply the most practical way of resolving those "implacable ancient rivalries."\</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">Worse powers fill the gap- turns the k </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shaw, 2002</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Martin Shaw, professor of international relations at University of Sussex, Uses and Abuses of Anti-Imperialism in the Global Era, 4-7-2002, http://www.martinshaw.org/empire.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is fashionable in some circles, among which we must clearly include the organizers of this conference,....I shall return to these political issues at the end of this paper.</span>

Threats are real – alt results in more intervention
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Liotta</span>Prof of Humanities at Salve Regina University <span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span>,Professor of Humanities at Salve Regina University, Newport, RI, andExecutive Director of the Pell Center for International Relations and Public Policy
[P. H. “Through the Looking Glass” Sage Publications]
Although it seems attractive to focus on exclusionary .... address – or <span style="font-size: 12pt;">fail to address – security</span>.
Realism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guzzini, Senior Research Fellow at the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, 98</span><span class="CitesChar1">Associate Professor of Political Science, International Relations, and European Studies at the Central European University in Budapest, 1998 (Stefano, Realism in International Relations, p. 212)</span>

Therefore, in a third step,.... although not always necessarily in the spirit, of realism.

Their <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">critique reproduces sovereignty and exploitation. Only political action solves </span>
Agathangelou and Ling, 1997<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Anna M., Director of the Global Change Institute in Nicosia and Former Assistant Professor of Women’s Studies and Politics at Oberlin; L.H.M., Institute of Social Studies at the Hague, Studies in Political Economy, v54, Fall, p. 7-8)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet, ironically if not tragically, </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">dissident IR</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">also </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">paralyzes itself....</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> particulars from universals, and critical theory from problem-solving. </span>
Aggressive states are the root cause of conflict- only the plan solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kydd Prof of poli sci 97</span> – Professor of Political Science of California, Riverside, [Andrew, SECURITY STUDIES, “Sheep in Sheep's clothing: Why security seekers do not fight each other” Autumn 1997 p. 154]
As for the Second World War,....aggressive states are at the root of conflict, not security <span class="DebateUnderline">concerns. </span>
===**1AR Heg Bad K**=== 
**KILL ALL THE ENEMIES!!!!!!!!!!!**
**PETERS 04 Retired Army Officer**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ralph Retired Army officer, “In Praise of Attrition,” Parameters, Summer 200</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, p. 24-32, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/04summer/peters.htm, UK: Fisher</span>

__It cannot be repeated often enough: Whatever.....__ **__The only way to do that is through killing__****__.__**
===2AC Consult Nato=== 
1. We meet
**And the mere condition of the CP kills solvency**
**Felt, 10** - USAF Commander, Space Test Operations Squadron Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB, New Mexico (Eric, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])

__Industry watching for decisive ….__ __operational capability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
3. Nato kills heg-
A) Military Power
Krauthammer 2002<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, winner of the 1987 Pulitzer Prize for distinguished commentary, writes a nationally syndicated editorial page column for the Washington Post Writers Group. Educated at McGill University, Oxford University and Harvard University, where he received an M.D. in 1975, Dr. Krauthammer practiced medicine for three years as a resident and then chief resi­dent in psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital before moving to Washington, D.C., and launching his journalism career in 1978. Today, in addition to his weekly column that runs in over 100 newspa­pers, he writes regular essays for Time magazine, contributes to several others including the Weekly standard, the New Republic and the National Interest, and appears regularly as an analyst on the Fox News Channel. Dr. Krauthammer also serves as a member of President Bush's Council on Bioethics. “American Unilateralism”,<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.byui.edu/onlinelearning/courses/hum/202/American%20Unilateralism.htm]]</span>, Hemanth)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">So much for the moral argument that under­lies multilateralism. …said that the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait would not stand, and made it clear that he was prepared to act alone if necessary, that he created the Gulf War coalition.</span>
B)Credibility
James F.F. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carroll</span>, Emory International Law Review, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>
[“Back to the Future: Redefining the Foreign Investment and National Security Act's Conception of National Security,” Emory International Law Review, 23 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 167, Lexis]
n221. See Thomas Friedman, Op-Ed., 9/11 is Over….Control (F.O. Hampson et al. eds., 1992). See also Khalilzad, supra note 177.
5. Nato expansion leads to Russia nuclear war- plus collapse inevitable and no impact
Bandow 12
[Doug Bandow, 1/2/2012, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to Ronald Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire (Xulon)., [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=13982]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, none of these incredible feats of military prowess could have been achieved without the U.S….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">." The answer obviously is no. </span>__

6. Consultation can’t solve
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reiss, US Director of Policy Planning, 4</span>[Mitchell, US Department of State, “Revitalizing Transatlantic Relations: Bridging the Divide,” <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.state.gov/s/p/rem/32448.htm]]</span>]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Sources of Division: Real or Apparent? </span>Those who worry about the<span class="DebateUnderline"> transatlantic….</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">– </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**to turn our alliance into a consultative marathon**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, to depend on dollars and Euros to do what volition and political responsibility cannot, or to split our alliance – all </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**are recipes for disaster**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

B. Fiat doesn’t mean the plan is implemented – the resolution is a question of what the federal government should do - should means desirable or recommended, not mandatory
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases, 2002</span><span class="CitesChar1">(“Words and Phrases: Permanent Edition” Vol. 39 Set to Signed. Pub. By Thomson West. P. 372-373)</span>


Or. 1952. Where safety regulation for ….Labor & Emp. 2857

10. And consultation will dilute the aff and is time consuming –
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wong, Policy Analyst at RAND, 1</span> [Anny, “The Roots of Japan’s International Environment Policies”]

<span class="DebateUnderline">The</span> double-edged quality of consensus decision <span class="DebateUnderline">….</span> in policy processes has always been a difficult task.
===1AR Consult Nato=== 
And causes policy paralysis
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Post 93</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[8/10 l/n]</span>

The<span class="DebateUnderline"> actual </span>starting point of <span class="DebateUnderline">…community gasping for its last breath</span>.

<span class="Author-Date">No risk of them solving- Unilateralism and multilat can’t both exist </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Patrick 2K</span> **–** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Center on International Cooperation</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stewart, Concept Paper for Workshop on Multilateralism, and US Foreign Policy, [[http://www.nyu.edu/pages/cic/projects/Unilateralism/WorkingPaper.html]])</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">Multilateralism is a demanding form of cooperation….</span> and maximize its maneuvering room<span class="DebateUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kratochwil, 1993)</span>
===2AC BMD DA=== 
. BMD inevitable-assumes their warrants
Space Daily 12/30
[Space Daily Staff Writers, 12/30/11 [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Boeing_wins_348_billion_contract_for_US_missile_shield_999.html]]]

__Boeing won a $3.48 billion contract__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span>__cost of defects in the future.__

__SMH at your uniqueness__
Ferran 11/17
[Lee Ferran, Reporter for ABC News, 11/17/10, [[http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/dod-army-successfully-tests-top-secret-hypersonic-weapon/story?id=14975275#.TwHOdtRrNv5|http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/dod-army-successfully-tests-top-secret-hypersonic-weapon/story?id=14975275#.TwHOdtRrNv5]]]
Should President Obama want to strike any target ...__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">disrupt key enemy targets within a few hours."</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bmd is pretty awesome. i mean like its freaking missile defense</span>__
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gaffney 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Founder and President of the Center for Security Policy, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear Forces and Arms Control Policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Frank J. Jr, "The Costs of Failure" __33 Minutes: PROTECTING AMERICA IN THE NEW MISSILE AGE__, http://www.heritage.org/research/missiledefense/upload/SDI_reader.pdf] </span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Failure to provide</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> an effective defense against ballistic missile attack ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">__the costs of failing to defend ourselves will remain unimaginably greater than the costs of defending ourselves.__ </span>





===2AC Pos Peace- We <3 Pace ES=== 
1. we meet
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">Negative peace should be our first priority because human survival is at stake</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Boulding, 1990</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kenneth E., Former Director of the Center for Research in Conflict Resolution, U of Michigan, CONFLICT: READINGS IN MANAGEMENT AND RESOLUTION, Ed: John Burton, p. 40-41)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"Where, then, do we go from here?...., either of war or of peace.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">Cuomo concedes that avoiding conflict escalation is important </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cuomo, 1996</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Chris, Their Author, War Is Not Just An Event, Hypatia)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">I propose that the constancy of militarism ...to a specific event or kind of event.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">Peace research should consider both negative and positive aspects of peace</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Galtung, 1985</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Johan, Peace Researcher and Originator of "Positive and Negative Peace", Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 22 No. 2 p. 145)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">That peace has something to do....</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">t studies take care of the latter</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Terror Defense</span>=== 

Likelihood of a terror attack is incredibly low – The media and government exaggerate the risk.
Eland 07<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Senior Fellow and director of the Center on Peace & Liberty @ Independent Institute, Ivan, “The Terror Threat in Perspective” http://antiwar.com/eland/?articleid=10702</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">U.S. State Department statistics show that historically,...</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">media, getting high ratings from sensational reporting on terrorism, has been a willing accomplice to the administration effort</span>__


===__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2AC Privitization CP</span>__=== 
**<span style="color: black;">1. we meet</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">4. Private sector alone can’t solve --- too expensive. __Initial__ action by the federal government is key.</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Spudis, 7</span>** <span style="color: black;">planetary scientist at the Applied Physics Laboratory and former member of the President’s Commission on the Implementation of US Space Exploration Policy, 7</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;"> (1/22/07, Paul, The Space Review, “A full of opportunity; NASA gave six reasons for going back to the Moon when only one was needed,” <span style="color: #114170;">[[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/791/1]]</span>, JMP)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">In short,</span> __<span style="color: black;">we are going to the Moon</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;"> for one clear and …</span>

**6Advocates of space commercialization significantly exaggerate the benefits and feasibility – few entrepreneurs exist**
**Day, 9** - space policy analyst and historian who lives in Northern Virginia (Dwayne, “Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors,” 12/21, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1534/1)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But of course </span>__the most common__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but it is certainly not the only tool with value, and pounding away with it too much may ultimately be self-destructive.</span>

<span class="Underline">8. Gov’t Key effective solvency</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maser 11</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[Jim, Chair of the Corporate Membership Committee – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and President – Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, “A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry”, U.S. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Hearing, 3-30, [[http://www.prattwhitney.com/media_center/executive_speeches/jim_maser_03-30-2011.asp]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Access to space plays a significant part in the Department of Defense’s ability to secure our nation. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">way that we can. But</span> <span class="DebateUnderline">the clock is ticking</span>.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10. Businesses won’t invest -- even with incentives, they don’t view it as profitable</span>**

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lamassoure et al., 2003</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;"> (Elisabeth, a member of the Mission Systems Concepts section at the Jet Propulsion. Laboratory. Bradley R. Blair, Javier Diaz, Mark Oderman, Michael B. Duke, Marc Vaucher, Ramachandra Manvi’, and Robert W. Easter “Evaluation of Private Sector Roles in Space Resource Development” [[http://trs-new.jpl.nasa.gov/dspace/bitstream/2014/10473/1/02-2470.pdf]])</span>

As a team of public-sector engineers designs …. make its investment decision.


**CP links to politics.**
**Pastzor, 2010**
[Andy, WSJ, “White House Decides to Outsource NASA Work,” 1-24, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704375604575023530543103488.html]
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The White House has decided to begin funding private companies....</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">any kind and U.S. human space flight could be "on hold for the foreseeable future."</span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2AC Space Weapons DA</span>=== 

**1. We aren't a weapon. we are satellites. what's good?**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3. we read lots of good 1ac cards about this. Yee, C'mon. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Stop Your Business.</span>**


**2. Heres a bunch of cards we've read to answer this DA - will's not very consistant on which he reads in teh 2AC - so voila**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – more evidence proves that the plan removes the motivations for others to resort to space weapons or anti-satellite systems</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schendzielos, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kurt, Major in the U.S. Air Force, School of Advanced Military Studies, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, April 30, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553)</span>

The first and most obvious advantage of developing timely and responsive satellite defenses is that [...] effective and lasting prohibitions against ASATs and space weapons.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">1.) </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Plan prevents future U.S. OFFENSIVE weaponization that makes their disad inevitable and is MUCH more likely to trigger their link and escalation arguments </span>**
**Redifer, 11** - LtCol, USMC, <span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Master of Science in Applied Physics and Master of Science in Space Systems Operations, Naval Postgraduate School</span> (Stephen, “TAKING THE INITIATIVE – PROTECTING US INTERESTS IN SPACE,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=be97b3ea-7800-44ee-b6ff-76dcdb7c2960]])

Second, the United States should make [...] thereby ensuring unity of effort toward a common goal.

**5. ) Link has been triggered**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Lasker 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> (John Lasker is a freelance journalist from Ohio. He has a new book out, "TECHNOIR: 13 Investigations from the Darkside of Technology". He specializes in cybewarfare and military technology, talking with Gagnon, director of the Global Network Against Weapons and Nuclear Power in Space. 27 May 2010 “US Space Weapon Now Circling the Globe” [[http://towardfreedom.com/home/content/view/1980/1/]] JT)</span>

Like the X-37 and the Aurora, [...] Obama is doing virtually **nothing** to reverse the militarization, weaponization, and nuclearization of space."

**6)NO perception link**
**Buck 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Integration Manager for the NSSO Communications Functional Integration Office (COMM-FIO), and augments COMM-FIO leadership of a 200-member enterprise team of elite DoD, Intelligence Community (IC), NASA, and space & cyber industry engineers, operators & stakeholders (February 17, 2010, Darren J., “SPACE 2035: TECHNOLOGY, TRANSPARENCY, AND TRUSTED IMMUNITY,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_1a3a5809-1e22-4f94-890f-cc231da5bd28/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)</span>

Space Weapons: Perception and Provocation **[...]** while safeguarding its political clout and cultural influence on the international stage.


**5)Test launch should have triggered the da**
**Cummings 12/8**
[John Cummings, Space and Missile Defense Command / Army Strategic Command, 12/8/10, [[http://www.army.mil/article/49115/Army_nanosatellite_on_first_flight/]]]

The first U.S. Army nanosatellite lifted off [...] Colorado Springs, Colo., will be made during orbits.



**6) Defenses outpace and are less expensive- prevents arms race**
**Schendzielos, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – major in the USAF, School of Advanced Military Studies (April 30, 2008, Major Kurt Schendzielos, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553)</span>

Second, there is a simple economic balance [...] Outpacing the potential adversary threat is exactly the goal of this proposal.

**Iran’s weaponizing now**
**Hsu 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- B.A. in History @ University of Pennsylvania, M.A. in Journalism @ New York University, Senior Staff Writer @ TechMediaNetwork, writer @ InnovationNewsDaily, Space.com, Astrobiology Journal, and Fox News [Jeremy, Fox News, “Iran’s space program cover for military buildup?,” November 10, 2010, [[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/11/10/irans-space-program-cover-military-buildup/]], DavidK]</span>

[[http://www.foxnews.com/topics/world/iran.htm#r_src=ramp|Iran]] has its sights set on putting an astronaut on the moon by 2025,[...] Studies at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I.


<span class="Underline">**So is india**</span>
**<span style="background-color: white;">Krishnan 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white;">-staff writer for Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, [Anatha, “Indian Official Says Anti-Satellite Weapon Within Reach” 3-8-11, LexisNexis]</span>
BENGALURU, India — Following the latest successful test of an air defense interceptor,[...]The missile was first tested in November 2006.



**We solve deterrence and aren’t weapons**
**Butterworth 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – served on the staff of the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and at the Department of Defense (Robert, November, “Fight for Space Assets, Don’t Just Deter”, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/614.pdf]] WSX)</span>

If the Pentagon knows an important [...] The U.S. needs space in warfare, not warfare in space.




**Cooperation fails– our adversaries’ intentions are not to coexist peaceably, but to undermine US heg at all costs – specifically the PLA overwhelms any of their “China peaceful” args**
**Brown, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - BA, Indiana University; MSc, S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University [Singapore] (Spring, Trevor, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal)</span>
Perhaps there remains a belief in the US strategic community that [...] soft power while expanding hard power.

**The plan would be perceived as going second after the Chinese ASAT test in 2007- means there’s no risk of backlash because of political cover**
**Coffelt, 5** – Lt. Colonal; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OFUS SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. June 2005.)

Sputnik’s launch bestowed the honor and [...] longstanding preference for positive action and offensive solutions.

**Even if that's not true - Going first solves backlash**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dolman 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This is the context in which the world now exists. [...] the likelihood of a future war in space is remote.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">4. we meet</span>**

===India Launch Services 2ac=== 
we meet

1. Lack of macroeconomic reform makes imagine impossible
**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bloomberg 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (India's Edge Over China: Soft Power, [[http://www.businessweek.com/globalbiz/content/jun2010/gb20100617_150774_page_2.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But if political and strategic elites are more than willing to help India ... to building much-needed infrastructure and educating its people—__is still unproven.__</span>

2. No link- trades off with Russia and Private Sector
Business Times 8/5
[“Boeing will hitch ride to space on Atlas V Rockets”,8/5/11, [[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/193436/20110805/boeing-employees-become-astronauts-atlas-v-lockheed-cst-100-iss.htm]]]
The return of Space shuttle Atlantis f...<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> and, eventually, Mars. </span>__</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">3. China will prevent soft power</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Times of India 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Soft power, hard battles, [[http://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2010-07-10/us/28323116_1_indian-americans-china-and-india-chinese-footprint]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Some even argue that __Indian soft-power in the US__ - ... has a national will and purpose in these matters that India lacks.</span>




5. Soft power impossible- u.s. backlash
**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">CASI 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Center for Advanced Study of India, University of Pennsylvania India in Transition, [[http://casi.ssc.upenn.edu/iit/hymans]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the late 1990s, India has enjoyed the happy situation ..., India has refused to take the terrorists’ bait, but for how much longer? </span>


6. U.S. leadership key to indian sopo
**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lee 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (John, research fellow at the CIS and the Hudson Institute in Washington DC, Unrealised Potential: India’s ‘Soft Power’</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ambition in Asia, [[http://www.cis.org.au/images/stories/foreign-policy-analysis/fpa-4.pdf]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The swiftness</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and enthusiasm</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __with which...__g, __the global__ or regional __order__.</span>


8. Democracy Impossible
Dixon 10 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Dr. Patrick Dixon, PhD Foreign Policy, “The Truth About the War With Iraq”, http://www.globalchange.com/iraqwar.htm]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">And so we find an interesting fact: </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">those ...</span>__<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">s, hell-raisers, protestors and</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">violent agitators</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
===**SKFTA DA**=== 
1. we meet
Plan is a concession to kyl
Reuters 07
[Reuters News,1/29/07, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/01/29/AR2007012901243.html]]]
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China's test</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of an anti-satellite weapon this month </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">was a "wake-up call"....</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and to evaluate any need for tougher export controls, he said. </span>

**He’s key to the bill**
**McConnell 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mitch, Senate Minority Leader, “Jon Kyl,” Time 100, [[http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,1984685_1984864_1984901,00.html]], EMM)</span>

__In the Senate,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Arizona's Jon </span>__Kyl has built a reputation for...__ __of Senate power is the power to persuade.__

No PC
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kiely 9/5</span>/11 (Patrick J. Kiely is president of the Indiana Manufacturers Association. He wrote this for Indiana newspapers, “Labor Day: The state of the union”, [[http://www.journalgazette.net/article/20110905/EDIT05/309059996/1021/EDIT]])

<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The Rasmussen Reports Daily Presidential Tracking Poll ....</span> Can the president be another Truman? Maybe, but time is short and the country needs to see much different policies.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fta not key</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> to the economy or the alliance</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dong Sun </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lee</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Sung Eun </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kim</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute and MA in Poli Sci from Korea University The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment, </span>20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Annual Convention of the International Studies Association</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Even accepting that economic ties can facilitate diplomatic partnerships, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">one cannot...</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">would not make Seoul markedly more economically dependent on Washington. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SKFTA can’t solve trade </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">WSJ 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">JANUARY 3, 2011, (Wall Street Journal, Sudeep Reddy, Jobs, Wars, Deficits, Sports—and the Campaign, A look at 2011: analysis, graphics, snapshot profiles of people to watch and a calendar of selected events, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704851204576034050639894010.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Global exports and imports plummeted during the financial crisis as consumers held on to cash, financing ....</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">trade tensions are almost certain to persist, even if Congress approves a pending U.S.-South Korea free-trade pact</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



Obama is using PC on energy bills
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">NYT 9/8</span>/11 (“In Jobs Speech, a Test for the President on Clean Energy”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/cwire/2011/09/08/08climatewire-in-jobs-speech-a-test-for-the-president-on-c-90267.html]])

<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The last time Obama .... to retreat from it now. </span>


===Jobs Thump Everything=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jobs Thump, Won’t pass, plan doesn’t link, can't solve the economy, spending links have been triggered</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Holtz-Eakin 9/8</span>
[ Douglas Holtz-Eakin is president of the American Action Forum and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office. 9/8/11, [[http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/09/08/obamas-jobs-speech-long-on-promises-and-weak-on-substance/]]]
__The weak underbelly of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>__.....__ __the philosophy they embody has failed and will not be embraced.__

=Negative= 
==CP== 
===EIS CP=== 
====1NC==== 


**Text – The United States Federal Government should initiate an environmental impact assessment regarding the consequences of**
**[ DAT YUNG PLAN TEXT]**
**and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it meets compliance requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act. We’ll clarify.**

**It competes-**
**“resolved” Means “to make a firm decision”,**
**“should” Means “used to imply obligation or duty”**
**[American Heritage Dictionary at****<span style="color: #147dba; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://dictionary.com/|dictionary.com]]</span>]**

**Solves and net beneficial – prior assessment approves the plan and boosts environmental leadership**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Viikari 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lotta, Professor of Public and International Law and Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law at the University of Lapland, Theory and Practice of Transboundary Environmental Impact Assessment, p. 265-266)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Introduction</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Outer space is an environment where humans have gained access only quite recently as our technology has not been sophisticated enough for space missions for very long[…] </span><span class="Underline">Similar obligations have</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span><span class="Underline">not been adopted for the space sector yet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**That’s key to overall hegemony and avoids politics**
**Walter 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Norbert, Chief Economist – Deutsche Bank Group, The New York Times, 8-28, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At present there is much talk about the unparalleled strength of the United States on the world stage[…]</span> __pivotal dimension of political and economic__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- if not existential -- </span>__conflict__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Global nuclear war**
<span class="Heading2Char">Khalilzad 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, Counselor – Center for Strategic and International Studies, Former U.S. Permanent Representative – United Nations, Former U.S. Ambassador – Iraq, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The stakes are high. In modern history</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span><span class="Underline">[…] emboldened to make aggressive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> moves in their regions.</span>

**Independently – this model stops global environmental destruction that risks extinction**
**Harris 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul G., Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to promoting U.S. global interests, a more robust </span>__[…]__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (we would not be treating them as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument65). </span>

====2NC Solvency==== 
**Only a risk it solves better – prior EA builds industry support and minimizes costs and time**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Viikari 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lotta, Professor of Public and International Law and Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law at the University of Lapland, Theory and Practice of Transboundary Environmental Impact Assessment, p. 285)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5. Future for Environmental Assessment in Space Activities</span>
<span class="Underline">No doubt </span>the space sector necessitates<span class="Underline"> improved environmental protection and,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] - not least in the outer space where many environmental amenities can be considered to have a rather unique value and can thus be compromised forever by the introduction of pollution, for instance.</span>

**-- Key to build public support – plan causes backlash turning case**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mirmina 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven A., Esq. – Senior Attorney on the International Law Practice Team of NASA's Office of the General Counsel, ISSUES IN SPACE LAW: Nuclear Power Sources and Future Space Exploration, 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 149, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A. TRANSPARENCY AND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION</span>
Public participation<span class="Underline"> and engagement in discussions </span>of<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…]. Communications with the public should adequately address the use of NPS, any environmental impact of the mission, safety concerns, and potential for any health risks. n71</span>

**Their evidence assumes other impact statements – environmental assessment __over space__ is uniquely less stringent and will be approved**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pusey 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Natalie, JD candidate – University of Colorado, The Case for Preserving Nothing: The Need for a Global Response to the Space Debris Problem, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The National Aeronautical and Space Act created NASA in part to "encourage, to the maximum extent possible, the fullest commercial use of space." […] t "a review of each spacecraft to assess its debris-creating potential." n221</span>

====2NC NB Overview==== 

**Specifically – it says this stops ozone depletion – extinction**
**Greenpeace 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer -- A Greenpeace Report with contributions from Ozone Action, http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina first postulated</span>__[…] t**he stakes** **are literally the continuation of life on earth****.**__


**Specifically solves military power**
**Vest 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary, Acting Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Environmental Security – United States, Arms Control and the Environment, Ed. Guruswamy and Grillot, p. 220-221)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. hopes through their interactions with other countries[…] As it was constituted, the environmental security organization had three new charter directives that are germane to our discussion.</span>

====AT: CP bad==== 
**Tons of ground exists**
**Gaines and Lurie 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lisa and Sue, Ph.D., Associate Director and Consultant in the Institute for Natural Resources – Oregon State University, “NEPA for the 21st Century: A Comparative Analysis of Other Organizations’ Environmental Review Structures”, 5-16, http://www.fs.fed.us/pnw/about/programs/fsd/NEPA/Final%20Draft%20 Report-160507.pdf)</span>

__Since NEPA’s passage__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more than </span>__[…]__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Two studies are particularly instructive.</span>

====PDCP==== 
**B) “Increase” must be a mandate**
**HEFC 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Higher Education Funding Council for England, “Joint Committee on the Draft Charities Bill [[http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/167/167we01.htm|Written Evidence]]”, June, http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/167/167we98.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">9.1 The Draft Bill creates an obligation on the principal regulator to do all that it […] </span>__of the statutory duty__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Indeed, the obligation could be considered to be ever-increasing.</span>

**C) “Substantial” mean unconditional**
**Words & Phrases 64**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (40 W&P 759)</span>

__The word____s__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] opposed to inclusive.</span>

**D) Severs Immediacy - “Should” means “must” and requires __immediate__ legal effect – that’s key to negative ground**
**Summers 94** (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶4 The legal question to be resolved by the court is whether the word[…] </span>__become effective in the future__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [in futurol]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, [[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/deliverdocument.asp?box1=106&box2=U.S.&box3=360|106 U.S. 360]], 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span>


====AT: PDB==== 
**-- Doesn’t solve – __prior__ and __binding__ assessments are critical to access any benefit**
**Gibbons 91**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John H., Director – U.S. Office of Technology Assessment, “Complex Cleanup: The Environmental Legacy of Nuclear Weapons Production”, February, http://www.princeton.edu/~ota/disk1/1991/9113/911307.PDF)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. </span>__Require DOE__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Other Involved Agencies </span>__To Consult__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the Boards </span>**__Prior__**__to__ __Making Key Decisions__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] </span>__can go a long way toward achieving__ __sound and credible outcomes__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Referendum CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**NASA’s policies are shaped by a system that structurally excludes the American public, and the CP is key to solve.**
**Connell 7.** (Kathleen M., Principal, The Connell Whittaker Group, LLC, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. “The Future of Democracy and Space: Increased Democratization of Governmental Decision Making.” Presented September 20, 2007 as part of a session entitled "Astrosociology I: Theory and Research" at the AIAA Space 2007 conference in Long Beach, CA. pdf. Veevz)

NASA’s lack of a direct constituency among voters creates a structural issue that constrains budgets and options for civil space. In the first decade of the twenty-first century, trends have emerged that may alter how space policy is created [...] The following discussion briefly outlines how these emergent structural changes can be viewed.

**Civic Engagment solves extinction -**
**Boggs 2000**
**( i somehow can't find this card - hopefully William will see this and fix it )**
**Note from Will- 10/17/11- I refuse to put up this card. its not even that good. Nice try.**
**Note from Will- 10/18/11- I gave in- here you go-**

Civic engagement key to prevent unending war
<span class="DebateHighlighted">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Boggs 00</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (CAROL BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 00, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7.5pt;">But it is a very deceptive and misleading minimalism.</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">While Oakeshott debunks political mechanisms</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> and rational planning, as either useless or dangerous,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the actually existing power structure-replete with its own centralized</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">state apparatus, institutional hierarchies,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">conscious designs</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, and indeed, rational plans-</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">remains fully intact</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, insulated from the minimalist critique. .....</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7.5pt;"> And either outcome would run counter to the facile antirationalism of Oakeshott’s Burkean muddling-through theories. </span>



====2NC Competition==== 

**dude its competitive, trust us on this. just like, trust me. i know what we are doing.**
**no it isn't- <3 <3 Lex CF**

**Should” means “must” and requires** **immediate** **legal effect – that’s key to negative ground**
**Summers 94** (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8,<span style="color: #000000;">[[@http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13|http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13]]</span>)
¶4 The legal question to be resolved by the court is whether the word [...] [in futurol]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, <span style="color: #000000;">[[@http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/deliverdocument.asp?box1=106&box2=U.S.&box3=360|106 U.S. 360]]</span>, 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).


**“Substantial” requires full legal effect**
**Words & Phrases 64** (40 W&P 759)
The words “outward, open, actual, visible, substantial, [...] opposed to inclusive.

====2NC Extensions==== 
**Space policy is structurally undemocratic- but there is potential to change the process- multiple factors make this possible.**
**Connell 7.** (Kathleen M., Principal, The Connell Whittaker Group, LLC, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. “The Future of Democracy and Space: Increased Democratization of Governmental Decision Making.” Presented September 20, 2007 as part of a session entitled "Astrosociology I: Theory and Research" at the AIAA Space 2007 conference in Long Beach, CA. pdf Veevz)
Taken as whole, these observations about possible future outcomes and space policy scenarios are timely, given the increasing relevance of space activities, [...] Those who elect to become applied astrosociologists will be able to act with increased competence and assure that timely action is taken to address the challenges and opportunities before us all.




===Deterrence CP=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**The United States federal government should make a classified, internal policy decision to not retaliate in the instance that U.S. space assets or infrastructure are attacked.**
**The United States federal government should declare that its nuclear weapons are purely defensive instruments of last resort whose sole purpose is to deter the use of nuclear weapons and to deter attacks on United States’ space assets or infrastructure**

**And – Iraq proves that the government has the ability to make internal decisions that circumvent traditional policymaking channels**

<span class="s1">Kassop, 2003</span> (Nancy, Professor at the State University of New York New Paltz, “The War Power and its Limits”, Presidential Studies Quarterly, Volume 33, Issue 3, September)

Kessler writes that […] agenda by connecting their cause to the war on terrorism.” (Kessler 2003, A01).

**And – the counterplan’s declaration effectively deters attacks on U.S. space assets and support infrastructure**
<span class="s1">Perry and Schlesinger et al, 2009</span> (William J., Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution and the Michael and Barbara Berberian Professor at Stanford University, James R., Former Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Energy, “America’s Strategic Posture: The Final Report of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States”, U.S. Institute of Peace)

<span class="s1">Declaratory policy is a signal of U.S. intent. As such, it plays an essential role in reinforcing deterrence</span><span class="s2">[…] </span> The Commission believes that any president of the United States would avoid pushing a confrontation to the point of nuclear exchange.


===Private Actor CP=== 
====1NC==== 
Text changes in every debate but it involves tax insentives - 25 years zero tax and like the plan.

Solves
Tax incentive solves -- businesses will develop the tech

Hudgins 2004 (Edward, formerly director of regulatory studies for the Cato Institute and editor of Regulation magazine. He served as a senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and was both deputy director for economic policy studies and director of the Center for International Economic Growth at the Heritage Foundation, “return to the moon? Not with this NASA,” The Atlas Society, http://www.atlassociety.org/return-moon-not-nasa)

NASA will also need to do business in new, innovative ways. […] And the tax revenue from that activity probably would offset the government's revenue losses from such an exemption.



Private sector solves better -- and, has the capacity to deploy

Pelton, 2010
[Joseph N., Research Professor with the Institute for Applied Space Research -- George Washington University, chairs a NASA and the National Science Foundation Panel of Experts that is conducting a global review of satellite telecommunications, “A new space vision for NASA - And for space entrepreneurs too?,” Space Policy 26 (2010) p. 78-80]

Anyone who rereads the Paine Commission report today almost aches for the vision set forth as a roadmap to the future in this amazing document. […] Only concerted political will exercised from both the inside and the outside will bring significant change [12]. pg. 78-80

====2NC Overview==== 
**Prefer our evidence -- many companies will compete for the incentive, meaning that expenditure on tech vastly exceeds the size of the payout. Takeouts don’t assume this multiplier effect.**
**Edward Aldridge, et al.**, Former Secretary of the Air Force, Chair of this Commission, Report of the President’s Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, June 4, **2004** (http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/60736main_M2M_report_small.pdf)

In addition to the innovation directly produced by NASA and the government [ … ] Creation of tax incentives can potentially create large amounts of investment and hence, technical progress, all at very little expense or risk to the government.

**And -- the CP revitalizes the American space industry, creating a multiplier effect as corporations compete to produce newer, better tech.**
**Edward Aldridge, et al.**, Former Secretary of the Air Force, Chair of this Commission, Report of the President’s Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, June 4, **2004** (http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/60736main_M2M_report_small.pdf)

Today an independent space industry does not really exist. […] such as the development of launch technology in support of space tourism.


**This is also a disad to the plan -- the aff undermines innovation**
**(a) NASA directly crowds out private sector development**
**HUDGINS ‘7** (Ed, August, “Individualism in Orbit: Morality for the High Frontier”, http://www.atlassociety.org/tni/individualism-orbit-morality-high-frontier, MinR)

One reason why space is not yet part of humanity’s domain can be found in economics. [...] more than the floor space of the Pentagon, waiting to be homesteaded.


**(b) Government contracts undermine innovation of NASA’s contractors**
**Harris, 8**
[Philip R., Visiting Professor in the California School of International Management. He received his Ph.D. and M. S. in psychology from Fordham University, and a B. B. A. in business from St. John’s University., management/space psychologist, as well as a prolific author and futurist. He is president of Harris International, Ltd., Space Policy, “Overcoming obstacles to private enterprise”, Volume 24, Issue 3, August 2008, Pages 124-127, http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6V52-4T3KTHB-1&_user=655046&_coverDate=08%2F31%2F2008&_alid=1428157950&_rdoc=1&_fmt=high&_orig=search&_cdi=5774&_sort=r&_docanchor=&view=c&_ct=8&_acct=C000034138&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=655046&md5=7a95914891501a5231fd7e6afc7a51ae]

Abstract It is clear that encouraging enterprise and ultimately settlement in outer space cannot be left to governments. [...] Yet it was entrepreneurs, often working out of their garages, who built the global, high-tech industries of today. And it appears that the same is now happening with regard to space enterprise.

====AT: links to politics==== 
**Plan spends political capital --- CP doesn’t link**
**Powell 9** (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html)

NASA supporters are bracing for an uphill battle [ … ] political capital to put forward an Obama space program.”



===Reg Neg=== 
====1NC==== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text:</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government should enact the outcome of a binding negotiation with the American aerospace industry. In the negotiation, the United States Federal Government should recommend that [INSERT THE PLAN]. </span>**



**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency</span>__****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Negotiation solves -- parties will come to the table and produce a viable plan</span>**

**__Harter, 1997__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Phillip J., Visiting Professor and Director of the Program on Consensus, Democracy and Governance at Vermont Law School, Duke Law Journal, April)</span>

**__The most well developed__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> […] </span>**__the outcome was one of the aspects of the process they considered most valuable.__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 48</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The aerospace industry will agree to the recommendation -- results in enactment of the plan</span>**


**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Net Benefit</span>__****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deliberative negotiation with the Aerospace industry is key to predictability and long-term planning. This solves the health of Aerospace and the overall economy.</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atkins and Newton, ‘10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Chuck Atkins, Former Chief of Staff to the US House of Representatives Committee on Science and Technology, No relation to the former Detroit Pistons guard, Elizabeth Newton, Director for Aerospace and Defense Policy at the University of Alabama, “Take the Chaos Out of US Space Policy,” Space News, 5-10-2010, http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The current debate over U.S. civil space policy makes for fascinating reading, but </span>__[…] about how many the country can afford__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> at a given point in time, especially relative to other national needs. A managed and regular prioritization process should replace episodic, ad hoc presidential commissions in order to ensure that the compelling questions for human space exploration are asked and answered with an enduring consensus in an accountable way and that diverse and iconoclastic views are considered. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aerospace key to the overall economy</span>**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Stephen </span>**__Fuller__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Professor of Economics and Director of the Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University, “The US Economic Impact of Approved and Projected DOD Spending Reductions on Equipment in 2013,” October 24, 20</span>**__11__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (http://secondtonone.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/aia_impact_analysis.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Additionally, </span>__the impacts of__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> these </span>__[…] construction, and other manufacturing__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>


**Nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Aaron </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 08</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University, and Gabriel Schoenfeld, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute [</span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Wall Street Journal</span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">One immediate implication of the crisis that began on Wall Street and spread across the world is that the primary instruments of U.S. foreign policy will be crimped</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[…] </span> divert attention from internal travails with external adventures<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Airpower NB</span>==== 

And Aerospace Decline Kills Air Power

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thompson 9</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (David, President – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “The Aerospace Workforce”, Federal News Service, 12-10, Lexis)</span>

Aerospace systemsare of<span class="DebateUnderline"> considerable </span>importance <span class="DebateUnderline">[…]</span>industrial supply base<span class="DebateUnderline"> that our entire</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> space </span><span class="DebateUnderline">sector relies on</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>



Airpower checks Asia war, Korea war, China war and Indopak war escalation

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 98</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Ashley, Senior Political Scientist – RAND, “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century”, http://www.rand. org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that </span><span class="DebateUnderline">[…] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report.</span>



====2NC Solvency - Exploration==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Industry says yes -- supports space exploration</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Defense Daily</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “New Space Policy Promotes International Cooperation, Private Industry,” 6-30-</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Obama</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> administration has </span>__issued a__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> new </span>__national space policy that […]__ __development__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">" as "an important investment in our workforce. " </span>




===Cut up the 1AC=== 
====1NC==== 
We just read the 1AC random ways, in different accents and weirdly
====2NC / 1NR==== 
**The affirmative’s focus on dialogue is simply an attempt to replicate**
**the liberalist deliberative debate that characterizes an ideal**
**discursive face which has already been written as white, affluent and**
**male by socializations of privilege. In attempting to “be real” they**
**ignorantly situate us in a reality of the debate space which is always**
**mediated by technique and expectation of form – a space which is**
**always already colonized by simulacra. While the affirmative team**
**attempts to break with the structure altogether, they reveal this**
**strategy in a sort of performativity which is still qritiq for its own**
**sake, debate for the sake of debate. Only the elocution of the 1AC**
**which, through juxtaposing already-heard concepts forces the question**
**of new meaning from old material allows us to use the standard format**
**of debate effectively against itself**

**Sanchez ‘7** Kevin, Hard Knocks, cross-x.… already using reflexive fiat” March 20

think i should better explain the …<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 14px;">We could seal up nose and mouth, fill in the stomach, make an air hole direct into the lungs where it should have been in the first place' (//NL// 119; </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16px;">cited by Deleuze and Guattari 1980:150).</span>


**Cutting up the 1AC creates an explosion of the formulation of politics**
**that defies linear narratives, presenting the affirmative’s political**
**act in an impossibly unpredictable formulation that resists capture**
**and re-crystallized within the boundaries of thought itself, as the**
**affirmative simply becomes re-domesticated within the confines of**
**deliberative or Socratic discourse, simply another seminar in the**
**school building, our cut-up provokes questioning of the abstract**
**machines that have colonized their debate thinking caps with their**
**side-ways roots and built their rhizomatic meanings out of cogency and**
**deliberation. The 1AC builds a prison out of coherence and ties**
**themselves to the ballot to drown in the solipsism of enjoying the**
**sound of their own voices. Thus, the cut-up destabilizes the**
**fundamental relationship between the meaning that __ presents at**
**the beginning of the round to the question of the ballot**
**Lydenberg ’87** (Robin, Associate Prof of … coordinated with a variety of texts.

**Our methodology is a necessary challenge to the spider-webs of**
**re-capture by systems of capital, language and subjectivity which will**
**inevitably re-integrate the affirmative’s approach into a new war**
**machine of technical debate conformity. The cut-up approach, taken by**
**William S. Burroughs in his novels which dissect the very loss of**
**valuation that late capitalism collapses into, the machine that**
**meaninglessly consumes and produces, and is finally interrupted by the**
**author himself. Burroughs dis-aggregates the narrative form through**
**cutting up, we are a dis-aggregation of the technical machine of**
**debate, which takes in spoken words, evidence, training, money,**
**laptops and produces ballots filled out with wins and losses and**
**subjects ready for obedience. Cutting up is our intervention into the**
**1AC -- to literalize the calls for pluralism and difference not in the**
**structure but in the presentation of the 1AC by reformulating**
**juxtapositions and creating an escape route for life that opens up**
**space for social change**
**Murphy 97** (Timothy S., U of CA, “Wising Up … Deleuze in his philosophy spire.


**The question of this debate is Why did you read your 1AC the way you**
**read it? Cultural norms, grammars of speech, social conventions? We**
**think our performance was superior to theirs. It also does whatever it**
**is that you claim to do, but better.**


**Spontaneity is a form of lived dreaming that itself resists control**
**and is by far is the greatest value in the debate**
William S. **Burroughs 1959,** drug addict, time-traveler, author, Letters
of William S. Burroughs ed. Oliver Harris pg.268-269

"The novel is taking … from without, character armor, death...”

**Our argument is based off of the Fixidity of the advocacy – Rhizomatic**
**politics form possibilities but the plan is a certainty – regardless**
**of the process which results in the advocacy, it stands as a**
**transcendent monument to the future goals of the movement. Because the**
**advocacy dictates what the possible outcomes of rhizomatic politics**
**can and cannot be, it has already sacrificed the ability to think**
**creatively which is necessary to overcome the states attempt at**
**counter-revolution**
**Goddard in 2k6** (July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and
Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”;
[[@http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm]])
What this type of radio … outline projections of societal change.”



==Kritiks== 
===Holocaust K=== 
====1NC==== 
The 1ac’s use of the term “Holocaust” causes more violence and is a decision rule- reject them

<span class="Heading2Char">Curtis 4</span> (Gary. Fallacy Files “Ad Nazium” http://www.fallacyfiles.org/adnazium.html)
In <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">almost </span>every heated debate<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>one si...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> trick in debate,</span> it is often "fighting words".

====Overview==== 
The Holocaust was the persecution and murder of approximately ten million Jews, Roma, and other “inferior groups” by the Nazi regime from 1939 to 1945. To use the term in any other instance is anti semitic- independent reason to reject the team.

<span class="CiteChar">Gerstenfeld 8</span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Manfred, PhD, “Holocaust Trivialization”, May 1, 2008, [[http://www.jcpa.org/JCPA/Templates/ShowPage.asp?DBID=1&LNGID=1&TMID=111&FID=381&PID=470&IID=2199]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holocaust trivialization …</span> others are just insensitive.

====A2: E/D==== 
Each instance must be rejected
Hanson 05
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. Victor Davis Hanson – Senior Fellow in Residence in Classics and Military History at Hoover Institution, Stanford University, 6/28/05, [[http://www.victorhanson.com/articles/hanson062805.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) was not alone when he …</span>__We will all soon reap what the ignorant are now sowing.__

====2NC Logical Fallacy==== 
This form of slippery slope reasoning is argument junk.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wright ’00 </span>(Walter, Associate Prof. and Chair Phil. – Clark U., Law, Medicine & Ethics, “Historical Analogies, Slippery Slopes, and the Question of Euthanasia”, 28:2, p. 176-186, Wiley Interscience)

Both sides appealed to the Nazi … Such connections vary in strength and persuasiveness. l2

====A2: Case Solves==== 
This logic leads to holocaust denial
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Avnery 9</span> (Uri, Israeli political writer. “Trivializing the Holocaust” http://original.antiwar.com/avnery/2009/05/10/trivializing-the-holocaust/)

Nothing that is happening in the world … was not so terrible, after all.
====2NC Holocaust Denial==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Their trivialization destroys the memory of the holocaust and leads to denial</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foxman 98</span> (Abraham, Holocaust survivor and director of the anti-defamation league, NY Times, 10-31-98)

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There was a time … that it is all just a Jewish conspiracy. </span>

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Matas in ‘5</span> (David, Formerly taught Constitutional Law @ McGill, "Aftershock: Anti-Zionism and Anti-Semitism", p. 177-178, Google Print)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Facing the obliteration of the …</span> dangers of the right-wing extremists in our midst.

===Holloway K=== 
====1NC==== 
**Directing our policies and desires towards the state prevents change and recreates oppression, turns the case.**
<span class="Heading2Char">Holloway, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 60-61)</span>

__But then what do we say of Bolivia and Venezuela? ...__ __of communal councils is at the core of this movement__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.21 </span>

**The alternative is to construct movements outside of the state and capitalism.**

**Refusing to engage in capital collapses it. Impact turns are irrelevant – tragedy and oppression happen all around us and capitalism makes extinction inevitable**
<span class="Heading2Char">Holloway, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 3-7)</span>

__Break. We want to break. We want to break the world as it is.....__ __a manifestly unjust and destructive society, What can we do__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ?</span>

**Confronting and challenging capitalism is a futile strategy because it is reactive by nature. The alternative is a complete break from confrontation – instead we should channel all of our resources into building a new world outside of capitalism. This changes the causal order of events and forces capitalism adapt to us, making the alternative successful even if it fails**
<span class="Heading2Char">Holloway, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 49-50)</span>

__Cracks break with the logic of capitalist society....____. The enemy is the social synthesis of capitalist society__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. 50</span>

====<span class="s1">2NC State Cooption</span>==== 


**3 reasons why the state coopts their movement –**
**First is** <span class="s1">**fixidity**</span> **– We cannot begin our engagement with politics via a pre-determined plan of action. This guts solvency and leaves us powerless to adapt to specific situations, turns the case**
<span class="s2">**Gilbert Et Al 2008**</span> (Jeremy Gilbert, Éric Alliez, Claire Colebrook, Peter Hallward, Nicholas Thoburn - all have PhDs and whatever; "Deleuzian Politics? A Roundtable Discussion"; New Formations)

<span class="s3">Claire: </span><span class="s1">If you think about contemporary politics: all we have to do is move from talking about national liberation movements and workers' movements to looking at some of the most tortured and vexed political situations [ … ] </span><span class="s3">The only way a transformatory political project is going to work is if it has a notion of redefinition that is inbuilt.</span>
**Second is** <span class="s1">**Visibility**</span> **– once the state knows your plan of attack cooption is inevitable. The only successful attacks against the state require invisible and unknowable challenges to state hegemony. Even if their politics could create change it would be rubber-stamped by the state and rendered always-already an empty signifier creating only enough change to be completely worthless. The visibility of the plan negates revolutionary potential.**
<span class="s2">**The Invisible Committee 2009**</span> (an anonymous group of French intellectuals. The coming insurrection.)

In a demonstration, a union member tears the mask off of an anonymous person who has just broken a window. “Take responsibility for what you’re doing instead of hiding yourself.” <span class="s4">[…]</span> “banlieue” subject to treat as the author of the “riots of November 2005.” Just looking at the faces on some of this society’s somebodies illustrates why there’s such joy in being nobody.

**Third is the** <span class="s1">**Plan**</span> **– it is a form of transcendent ethics which disconnects agency from action – the 1AC understanding of agency creates a slave-ontology which replicates oppression and prevents liberatory politics**
<span class="s5">**Smith 1998**</span> (Daniel W. Prof at Grimmell “The Place of Ethics in Deleuze’s Philosophy”; New Mappings in Politics, Philosophy and Culture)

<span class="s6">2. How is a mode of existence evaluated?</span> […] At the same time, the book attempted to set forth the concrete conditions under which a mode of existence can come into possession of its power, in other words, how it can become active. This leads us to a third question.

====<span class="s1">2NC Impact Overview</span>==== 

**Disconnect yourself from the state, from collectives, from everything bigger than our agency. It is only when desire is confined and controlled, added to some larger pool, that we lose sight of our ability to form unique judgments and come to unique conclusions. Recognizing this individualism is necessary to challenge fascism**
<span class="s2">**Deleuze and Guattari, 1987**</span> [A Thousand Plateaus pg 158-159]

<span class="s1">We come to the gradual realization that the BwO is not at all the opposite of the organs. […] These are those shameless fantasies which affect an unhealthy conscious. ... I too have had false sensations and perceptions and I have believed in them</span><span class="s3">." 18</span>

<span class="s6">**Link 1 – The** </span>**prisoner’s dilemma – the state will adapt and follow your politics. It is worthless to challenge the state in a race to control – they have the lead and will copy our strategies before they can become successful. Their political strategy is doomed to failure.**
<span class="s2">**Dixit and Nalebuff 1993**</span> (Avinash, John F. Sherrard University Professor of Economics at Princeton and Barry, Professor of economics and management at the yale school of organization and management. "Thinking Stategically")

After the first four races in the 1983 America’s Cup final Dennis Conner’s Liberty led 3-1 in a best-of-seven series. […] You can imitate as soon as the other has revealed his approach (as in sailboat racing) or wait longer until the success or failure of the approach is known (as in computers). The longer wait is more advantageous in business because, unlike sports, the competition is usually not winner-take-all. As a result, market leaders will not follow the upstarts until they also believe in the merits of their course.

**Link 2 – Goals versus the Process – The status quo is paranoiac even in its attempt at counter culture. Status quo methodology confines experimentation to only processes with set goals in mind, destroying these movements from the beginning. We must instead abandon these final goals and embrace free thought.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 1972**<span class="s3">, Anti-Oedipus, 370-1</span>

<span class="s1">The codes and their […] the pure process that fulfills itself, and that never ceases to reach fulfillment as it proceeds-art as "experimentation.'</span>

====<span class="s1">A2 We Don’t Use The State</span>==== 

**3. They are a fight against the state – Instead of trying to control and repress the state, we should build outside of it. It is hopeless to combine the creation of new forms of political subjectivity with demands upon the state. They let the state set the agenda which dooms failure because it leaves their protest beholden to the state.**
<span class="s5">**Holloway, 2010**</span> (John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 49-50)

<span class="s1">Cracks break with the logic of capitalist society. […] The enemy is the social synthesis of capitalist society</span><span class="s7">. 50</span>

====<span class="s1">A2 Alt Does Nothing</span>==== 

**Instead of giving the Body without Organs a face and a purpose, we should strive to maintain its creative freedom. Affirming the free space created with the alternative is not a neutral act – we should learn from disconnected figure. The political strategy of the alternative understands that we should never reach a point of full separation, rather we should understand the possibility of complete freedom, and use those lessons to inform individual empowerment**
<span class="s2">**Ballantyne 2007**</span> (Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University , "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 34-37)

<span class="s4">In its most elemental state it is the ‘body without […] </span> It is clearest in the sort of house that is a continuation of the person who lives in it, as a mollusc lives in its shell.
====<span class="s1">A2 We Solve Capitalism/Neolib </span>==== 

<span class="s1">**The use of the state makes capitalism inevitable. Prior revolutions have missed the form itself.** </span>
<span class="s8">**Zizek ’02**</span>, (Slavoj, Slovene sociologist, philosopher, and cultural critic, “Revolution at the gates” pg. 7-8 <span class="s9">http://books.google.com/books?id=JgxD0t3FeTAC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false</span>

The first thing that strikes today’s reader is how directly readable Lenin’s texts from 1917 are: there is no need for long explanatory notes – even if the strange-sounding names are unknown to us, we immediately get what was at stake. Form today’s distance, the texts display an almost classical clarity in tracing the contours of the struggle in which they participate. Lenin is fully aware of the paradox of the situation: <span class="s10">in</span> spring <span class="s10">1917</span>, after the February Revolution which toppled the tsarist regime, <span class="s10">Russia was the most democratic […] </span> (to repeat Robespierre) <span class="s10">want a “revolution without revolution</span>” – and Lenin displays all the strength of his “hermeneutics of suspicion” in discerning the different forms of this retreat.

**The State co-opts resistance to capitalism**
<span class="s8">**Holloway, 2005**</span><span class="s7"> (John, phd political science Univ Edinbugh, prof Univ Puebla, </span>, August 16, International Socialism <http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?SectionID=41&ItemID=8520> L.F.)

<span class="s10">The state</span> is not a thing, it is not a neutral object: it is a form of social relations, a form of organisation, a way of doing things which<span class="s3"> has </span><span class="s10">[…] There is one key concept in the history of the state-centred left, and that concept is betrayal.</span>

====<span class="s1">2NC Alt Extension</span>==== 

**Directing our policies towards the state ultimately undoes the good from experimental politics and recreates oppression. Instead we must abandon the seeking of the state.**
<span class="s5">**Holloway, 2010**</span> (John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 60-61)

<span class="s1">But then what do we say of Bolivia and Venezuela? […] The creation and promotion of communal councils is at the core of this movement</span><span class="s7">.21 </span>

===Gender K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The Affirmatives drive to dominate space is grounded in epistemologically flawed binaries – justifying their exploitation of space with “Man’s right” to dominate the other**
**Griffin 2009** (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)
The US is, of course, heavily reliant on its satellite-based systems [ … ] and that it rarely fights back), that those at the cutting edge of its exploitation are the 'visionaries' and 'entrepreneurs' that will pave the way to tourists, explorers, TV crews and to, as Morabito claims, 'dubious characters' such as, perhaps, 'bounty hunters' (2004: 10).


**Their discourse and adherence to international norms makes violence inevitable-**
**the alternative is to reject the 1AC to open space for a reconceptualization of security**
**Shepherd 2007** [Laura J., Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, “Victims, Perpetrators and Actors’ Revisited:1 Exploring the Potential for a Feminist Reconceptualisation of (International) Security and (Gender) Violence,” BJPIR: 2007 VOL 9, 239–256]
As Spike Peterson and Jacqui True comment, ‘our sense of self-identity and security may seem disproportionately threatened by societal challenge to gender ordering’ [ … ] If this is the case, I am more than happy to be unreasonable, and I am in excellent company.

===Shmitt K=== 
====1NC==== 
**the argument that friend/enemy distinctions exclusively define the**
**political justifies liberal reductionism**
**Thorup, 06** – Ph.D. dissertation @ the Institute of Philosophy and the
History of Ideas (Mikkel, January, 2006, “In Defence of Enmity –
Critiques of Liberal Globalism,” p. 39-40, TH)
This text is mainly about the potential da….– disruption, change,
recreation of the entire social space.

**An obligation to the Other inherently sacrifices other “Others”-**
**attention is zero sum – calculation is key**
Martin **Hägglund,** PhD Candidate in Comp. Lit @ Cornell, **‘4** [Diacritics,
“The Necessity of Discrimination: Disjoining Derrida and Levinas,” p.
muse]

Derrida's argument here is ….another name for the necessity of discrimination.

**In fulfilling an ethical relationship with the Other, our non-ethical**
**counter relationship with other Others reveals itself in the**
**unleashing of genocidal fantasies**
**Meister 8,** Professor of Politics University of California, 05 (Robert,
Professor of Politics at the University of California – Santa Cruz,
“’Never Again’: The ethics of the neighbor and the logic of genocide,”
Postmodern Culture,
[[@http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/postmodern_culture/v015/15.2meister.html]],
TGA CDI ’08)

The presumed unthinkability of genocide--…. can later re-emerge as a
self-conscious return to civilized values.

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative– choice is essential to**
**creating a real responsibility to the other – uncritical acceptance is**
**problematic**
Zygmunt **Bauman** Emeritus Professor of Sociology at The University of
Leeds "Life In Fragments" jc **1995**

This primal fact of our being-in-the- ….. before, they are drawn in
the course of action.

===Heg Good K=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**The 1ac functions as a criticism of the status quo US foreign policy**
**creating a rhetoric that risks unraveling the current unipolar world.**
**Each criticism contributes to neo-isolationist tendencies that create**
**a potential foil to American predominance.**
**KAGAN 98** senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace [Robert, “The Benevolent Empire,” Foreign Policy,
summer]

Those contributing to the growing chorus of …. the champagne corks in
celebration of the next American humbling.

**Threats are inevitable – if the US calls a timeout, the world is**
**doomed – conflicts will escalate and natural disaster victims will be**
**left to die**
**Thayer,** professor of security studies at Missouri State, November **06**
(Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”,
November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the U….
humanitarian mis¬sions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.

**The alternative is to reject the aff as a signal of commitment to US**
**imperial resolve.**
**It is necessary to maintain support for US hegemony because our**
**academic discourse actually effects foreign policy**
**MEARSHEIMER 95** Professor of Political Science and the co-director
of the Program on International Security Policy at the University of
Chicago. West Point graduate, retired Air Force officer
(John, Professor Political Science at the University of Chicago,
International Security, Summer, p. 93)

The discussion of institutions up to now …. to support their positions

====A2: Case Outweighs==== 

Even if the current world sucks – the alternative is worse – it short circuits any alternative solvency
Ferguson <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of History at New York University's Stern School of Business and Senior fellow at the Hoover Institution</span> – 2004 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Niall, “A world without power,” Foreign Policy 143, p. 32-39, July-August] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">So what is left? Waning empires. Religious revivals. … far more dangerous forces than rival great powers would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder</span><span style="color: black;">.</span>


===Positive Peace=== 
====1NC==== 
**Peace is a psychological factor. Traditional conflict management strategies promote militarism and makes their impacts inevitable**
<span class="s2">**Smoke and Harman, 87**</span> [Richard Smoke BA Harvard magna cum laude, PhD MIT, Professor at Brown, Winner Bancroft Prize in History, and Willis Harman M.S. in Physics and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University, Paths To Peace, 1987, Entire Preface]
The existence of<span class="s2"> nuclear weapons</span> has <span class="s2">presented</span> us with <span class="s2">a requirement for 100 percent reliability</span> that is found nowhere else in human affairs. […] And as the book points out, <span class="s2">the first step in achieving this goal</span>, as with any other goal, <span class="s2">is to believe it can be done.</span>

**Focus on war as an isolated event produces a politics of crises control that perpetuates militarism**
<span class="s2">**Cuomo, 96**</span> [Chris Cuomo, Ph.D., 1992, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 1996.Vol.11, Iss. 4; pg. 30]
<span class="s3"> In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces some of the ways in which </span><span class="s1">[…] These approaches also leave unquestioned tendencies to suspend or distort moral judgement in the face of what appears to be the inevitability of war and militarism.</span>

**Vote neg to embrace positive peace. Critical praxis outweighs policy making**<span class="s4">**.**</span> **Only a from dominant paradigms can avoid a self fulfilling prophecy**
Graeme <span class="s5">**Cheeseman,**</span> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, <span class="s5">**and**</span> Robert <span class="s5">**Bruce** </span>Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ<span class="s5">**, ‘96** </span>(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)


This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations in Australia, […] policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?

===Heidegger=== 
====<span class="s1">**1NC Heidegger**</span>==== 

**Power is not simply a force – power desolves the self of being as it seeks to overpower all that is weak – the aff’s defense of this power subjects all beings to violent calculation and planning ruining objectivity and corrupts the way the political functions – we bring that shit back into balance**
<span class="s2">**Polt 7** (Ricahrd, </span>PhD @ U Chicago,Philosophy and Honors Program, at Xavier University, 2007, "//Interpretation//, “Beyond Struggle and Power: Heidegger’s Secret Resistence,” [[http://www.interpretationjournal.com/backissues/Vol_35-1.pdf]],// veevz)

Heidegger now develops an extensive … **the “questionability of being**” (GA 66, 141).

**The alternative is an existential anxiety in the face of death - do not act in the face of fear – embrace powerlessness and fill yourself with dread only then can we truly engage in the political**
<span class="s2">**Thiele, 97, -** </span>Ph.D. department of politics at University of florida, [Leslie Paul Thiele, “Postmodernity and the Routinization of Novelty: Heidegger on Boredom and Technology”, Polity, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Summer, 1997), pp. 489-517, jstor]

The mood Heidegger is best … **to engage in such contemplation.**


====<span class="s1">**2NC overview** </span>==== 

**that creates the preconditions for nuclear war – turns case.**
<span class="s2">**Caputo 93**</span>—professor of Humanities at Syracuse, founder of weak theology, MA from Villanova, PhD from Bryn Mawr in Philosophy (John Caputo, //Demythologizing Heidegger//, 1993 p. 136-141)

In his essay "The … , profound, essential, authentic, **ontological destruction**<span class="s3">.</span>

**We’re already dead – vote neg**
**Baudrillard in 88** [ Jean, dead french dude, America,1988, pg. 40-42 ]
Everywhere survival has become a burning … some protective bubble or other.

**The plan itself forces us to violently caclucalte replicating slave ontology**
<span class="s2">**Smith 1998**</span> (Daniel W. Prof at Grimmell “The Place of Ethics in Deleuze’s Philosophy”; New Mappings in Politics, Philosophy and Culture)

2. How is a mode of … leads us to a third question.


**Our hubristic assumption that we can know the world inherently justifies domination.**
<span class="s2">**Spanos, 93**</span> – Heideggerian literary critic, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, completed his Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin–Madison [1993, William V. Spanos, Heidegger and Criticism: Retrieving the Cultural Politics of Destruction, University of Minnesota Press, ISBN: 9780816684427, pg. 138-9, Accessed through Ebrary]

Understood in the context of [ … ] play": in Gramsci's term, "hegemonic."


====<span class="s1">**2NC Framework** </span>==== 

**Political calculations necessarily block out opposing points of view necessitating genocidal violence**
<span class="s2">**Dillon 99**</span> (Michael, Prof of Politics + Int'l Relations @ Lancaster Univ., Political Theory, p. 164-165)
Quite the reverse. The subject … the human way of being.

**The role of the ballot is to exercise individual agency by engaging in meditative thought**
**We internal-link turn all their offense—our framework is a form of political dissent that effects changes in political practice**
<span class="s2">**Bleiker 2k**</span>—Ph.D. from the Australian National University, Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland (Roland, © 2000 First Published, 2004 Edition, Cambridge University Press, “Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics,” p. 210-1)

While providing compelling evidence of … more open manifestations of dissent.


And – the calculative thought turns case -
<span class="s2">**Housman and Flynn 11**</span> [Benjamin H. Housman and Thomas R. Flynn “Cooling Down Global Warming: Revisiting Sartre and Heidegger on this Modern Day Challenge” The ‘Step Back’ as a ‘Step Towards’ Confronting Global April 14, 2011 MV]

In his lecture “The Thing”, … of meaning, thought, or consideration.


====<span class="s1">**2NC Ontology First**</span>==== 


**2. Realism is a hegemonic form of knowledge production that allows violence to permeate being—the impact is extinction**
<span class="s2">**Burke, professor of politics and IR, 7**</span>—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, //Theory & Event//, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE,)
I was motivated to begin … , however ineffective, dysfunctional or chaotic.


**Ontology shapes our responses to ethics and politics—its interrogation demands prioritization**
<span class="s2">**Dillon 99**</span> (Michael, Prof of Politics @ University of Lancaster, Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics, p. 98)

In other words, whatever ontology … **be technocrats of decision making.**


====<span class="s1">**AT: Perm**</span>==== 

**We must question the need to act in the face of predictions of catastrophe, for such managerial responses only make our current “problems” worse—only by questioning the need to act and affirming a willingness to do nothing can call into question technological modes of thought**
<span class="s2">**McWhorter 92**</span> (Ladelle, Asst Prof of Philosophy @ Northeast Missouri State Univ., Heidegger and the Earth, p. 3-4)

Thinking today must concern itself … current ways of being human.

====<span class="s1">**AT: UTIL**</span>==== 


**Questioning flawed forms of technological ontology allows for better forms consequentialism**
<span class="s2">**Housman and Flynn 11**</span> [Benjamin H. Housman and Thomas R. Flynn “Cooling Down Global Warming: Revisiting Sartre and Heidegger on this Modern Day Challenge” The ‘Step Back’ as a ‘Step Towards’ Confronting Global April 14, 2011 MV]

This ‘step towards’ hampering global … ‘yes and no’ to technology.


**The loss of being leads to ontological damnation, the impacts of which outweigh even nuclear war**
<span class="s2">**Zimmerman 94**</span> (Michael, Professor + Chair of Philosophy @ Tulane, Contesting Earth’s Future, p. 119)

Heidegger asserted that human self-… were never "disclosed" by humanity.


===Virilio=== 
====<span class="s1">**1NC**</span>==== 

[LINK]

**Acceleration into space creates the global accident – culminates in the extinction of all living matter.**
<span class="s2">**Adams,**</span> Masters Political Science, <span class="s2">**03** </span>(Jason, Popular Defense in the Empire of Speed: Paul Virilio and the Phenomenology of the Political Body,” November 2003)

<span class="s3">It certainly is true that </span><span class="s1">… **of matter that is exterminated**</span><span class="s3">”.</span>

**Our alternative is to engage in eschatology of the accident – when faced with catastrophe, we should step back and acknowledge our powerlessness, breaking the endless cycle of invention and destruction that has characterized the 21st century.**
**Virilio 07** – (Paul, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, “The original accident,” trans. by Julie Rose, Polity, available online DH)

<span class="s4">Faced with this state of …</span> a philosophy of post-industrial eschatology.


====<span class="s1">**Exploration Link**</span>==== 
**The exotic dream of space and the possibilities it holds desensitizes us to the present consequences of the acceleration of technology – culminates in nuclear war.**
**Virilio 07** – (Paul, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, “The original accident,” trans. by Julie Rose, Polity, available online DH)

In this instance, <span class="s4">the fixity … </span>set calendar for space exploration. 7

====<span class="s1">**Science Link**</span>==== 


**Science itselfis the instrument of rationality – the 1ACs use of it blinds us the the catastrophic effects of technological thought**
**Kellner, 99** (George, Ph.D., Philosophy, Columbia University, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflection,” Theory, Culture & Society December 1999 vol. 16 no. 5-6 103-125 [["|http://www.uta.edu/huma/illuminations/kell29.htm]])

Virilio claims that <span class="s1">every technology … a new museum</span>" (Virilio and Lotringer 1983).[5]

====<span class="s1">**Deterrence Link**</span>==== 
**The constant preparation of war increases the relative speed of the military industrial complex – moots the distinction between war and peace.**
**Adams, 03** (Jason, Masters Political Science, Popular Defense in the Empire of Speed: Paul Virilio and the Phenomenology of the Political Body,” November 2003)

After the global wave of … <span class="s4">societies</span>? That's the real question.

**The 1ACs logic of deterrence embodies the progress from total war to total peace – insecurity is constant and culminates in unending violence and destruction.**
**James 07** – (2007, Ian, PhD, twentieth-century and contemporary French literature and philosophy, University of Cambridge, “Paul Virilio: War” p. 67-89 )

<span class="s3">Perhaps </span><span class="s1">one of the most … new military and political form.</span>


====<span class="s1">**2NC - Framework**</span>==== 
**You should view the 1AC as a work of art – only through this lens can we perceive the alteration of reality inherent in our pursuit of endless technological progress.**
<span class="s2">**Featherstone 10**</span> – Marker Featherstone, senior lecture in sociology at Keele University in the UK, “Virilio’s Apocalypticism,” http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=662#bio

<span class="s3">II Virilio's Notion of Catastrophic … </span><span class="s1">also abstraction, alienation, and violence</span><span class="s4">.</span>


**A. their frameworks of a “competitive policy option” or “status quo” begs the question of what policy is and presumes a stable status quo rather than the process of constituting the status quo. “Policy” should be understood in holistic terms – they narrate a story about the world and what is desirable in that world.**
**Tech comes first – it changes the political and perception of the world through the speed of politics**
**Kellner, 99** (George, Ph.D., Philosophy, Columbia University, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflection,” Theory, Culture & Society December 1999 vol. 16 no. 5-6 103-125 [["|http://www.uta.edu/huma/illuminations/kell29.htm]])

<span class="s5">Virilio further argues that </span><span class="s1">new … realms of experience and perception</span><span class="s6">.</span>


**B. Thus, they must justify their methods before they deal with the specifics of the plan.**
**Role playing crates virtual reality - the K is key to overcome that**
**Kellner 8** – Professor, George F. Kneller Philosophy of Education Chair, Social Sciences and Comparative Education, UCLA (8/31/2008, Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, Illuminations: The Critical Theory Website, http://intermedios.geografias.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/virilioilluminationskellner.pdf)

Yet Virilio differs from Baudrillard … <span class="s7">and seductive than ordinary reality. </span>


====<span class="s1">**2NC Alt Overview**</span>==== 

<span class="s1">**The alternative is an existential enxiety in the face of death - do not act in the face of fear – embrace the eschatology fill yourself with dread.** </span>
**Thiele, 97, -** Ph.D. department of politics at University of florida, [Leslie Paul Thiele, “Postmodernity and the Routinization of Novelty: Heidegger on Boredom and Technology”, Polity, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Summer, 1997), pp. 489-517, jstor]

<span class="s1">The mood Heidegger is best … **to engage in such contemplation.** </span>


====<span class="s1">**AT: Tech good** </span>==== 

**The aff views the technocratic system from one side – they ignore the detrimental effects of technology.**
**Kellner, 99** (George, Ph.D., Philosophy, Columbia University, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflection,” Theory, Culture & Society December 1999 vol. 16 no. 5-6 103-125 [["|http://www.uta.edu/huma/illuminations/kell29.htm]])

Virilio claims that <span class="s7">every technology … a new museum</span>" (Virilio and Lotringer 1983).[5]


**Progress invents its own destruction – the uncontested pursuit of excessiveness results in extermination.**
**Virilio 07** – (Paul, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, “The original accident,” trans. by Julie Rose, Polity, available online DH)

<span class="s5">In the end, t</span><span class="s1">he progressive … still allied 'science' and 'philosophy'.</span><span class="s5">9 </span>


====<span class="s1">**AT: People die daily**</span>==== 

**Progress is always symmetrical – for every development there is one accident and for every person saved, someone dies.**
**Virilio, 05** (Paul, “L'Accident original,” Jan. 29, 2005, http://frenchphilo.tribe.net/thread/f09709c8-1c47-4c83-a9d8-67c6f77fc168)

LD: You keep saying that … <span class="s7">and more under our eyes</span><span class="s8">.</span>

====<span class="s1">**2NC Heg**</span>==== 
**Our hubristic assumption that we can know the world inherently justifies domination.**
**Spanos, 93** – Heideggerian literary critic, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, completed his Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin–Madison [1993, William V. Spanos, Heidegger and Criticism: Retrieving the Cultural Politics of Destruction, University of Minnesota Press, ISBN: 9780816684427, pg. 138-9, Accessed through Ebrary]

<span class="s3">Understood in the context of … </span>] play": in Gramsci's term, "hegemonic."

====<span class="s1">**2NC – Impact Overview** </span>==== 

**The speed of technology makes accidents and nuclear holocaust inevitable.**
**Kellner 8** – Professor, George F. Kneller Philosophy of Education Chair, Social Sciences and Comparative Education, UCLA (8/31/2008, Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, Illuminations: The Critical Theory Website, http://intermedios.geografias.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/virilioilluminationskellner.pdf) MGM

In addition, for Virilio, <span class="s7">the … </span>democratic political participation and interaction.

<span class="s1">**The 1AC’s technological forms of though** </span>**create the conditions that are the pre-requisite for nuclear wars—the consequences of such thought are more devastating than extinction**
<span class="s9">**Caputo 93**</span>—professor of Humanities at Syracuse, founder of weak theology, MA from Villanova, PhD from Bryn Mawr in Philosophy (John Caputo, //Demythologizing Heidegger//, 1993 p. 136-141, [Miller])

In his essay "The … , profound, essential, authentic, <span class="s7">**ontological destruction**</span><span class="s8">.</span>












===Security K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The affirmatives disaster scenarios are mere constructions of threats that foster an environment of unending securitization.** <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">David </span>**<span style="color: black;">Grondin,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200</span>**<span style="color: black;">4,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Neorealist and neoclassical realism offer themselves up as a...... danger through foreign policy that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18.</span>

**The construction of threats ensures any agencies of power to authorize force including annihilation and genocide**
**Coviello 2000** (Peter, Assist. Prof. of English @ Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations, "Apocalypse from Now On")

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed – it did not go away. .... nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without. </span>

**Vote neg to reject the 1ac’s securitized discourse. Critical praxis outweighs policy making - voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of.... Contributors ask whether Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>

====2NC Overview==== 
Realism justifies nuclear first use as the ultimate deterrent- we’ll destroy until there’s no threats left
George ’94 (Jim, Senior lecturer in international relations in the Department of Political Science, Australian National University, “Discourses of Global Politics: A Critical (Re)Introduction to International Relations,” p. 100, AM)
Throughout the behavioralist period the issue of nuclear war loomed large. [ … ] rational deductive approaches and game-theorized models derived largely from neoclassical economic theory and utilitarian assump¬tions about human nature and behavior.51

====2NC Chernus==== 
**Their constant obsession with the bomb causes them to be tied to it and its eventual use**
**Chernus, 86** (Ira Chernus. professor of religious studies university of Colorado at boulder.
University of South Caroline 1986 “Dr. Strangegod.” Page 153-156//ts)

Moreover, even if we could imagine the reality of nuclear war in purely literal terms […] the first step is to understand that the reality we must imagine is largely a symbolic reality that crosses the line between literalism and fantasy.

**That guarantees extinction**
**Chernus 86**, Ira, professor of religious studies university of Colorado at Boulder, “Dr. Strangegod: on the symbolic meaning of nuclear weapons” 1986 WM, TH
Machines must inevitably see all the world as a machine: […] the symbolism of the Bomb as God, which makes nuclear weapons so attractive to us, reinforces the tendency toward numbing, and numbing reinforces our

====2NC Framework==== 
**[Role playing bad]– putting yourself in the hypothetical position of power spurs a violent psychology of violence. The aff becomes drunk with power and attempts to place a stranglehold on that power.**
**Role confusion – their utopian role playing causes them to confuse their roles with those of actual policy makers – this disempowers them – vote neg to revive individual agency**
**Kappeler, 95** (Susanne is an associate professor at al-akhawayn university, “the will to violence: the politics of personal behavior”, pg. 10-11)

Which is why many of those not yet entirely disillusioned with politics tend to engage in a form of mental deputy politics, in the style of ‘What would I do if I were the [… ] in the way we shape ‘our feelings, our relationships, our values’ according to the structures and the values of war and violence.


**Reliance on the state constructs the affirmative as a protection racket that attempts to legitimize exploitation and militarism through false rationalization to exhort the ballot**
**Peterson 92**
[V. Spike Peterson, “Gendered States: Feminist (re)visions of International Relations Theory”, p. 1992, p. 51-52,]
What do we know about large-scale protection systems? Defining a racketeer as […] Protection systems also distort the meaning or “consent” by both mystifying the violence that backs up the systemic inequality and perpetuating the illusion or equality among parties to “contractual obligations.


**And, reps come first**
**Crawford, 02** – PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ (Neta, Argument and Change in World Politics, 2002 p. 19-21)

Coherent arguments are unlikely to take place unless [ … ] But, as Rodger Payne suggests, “No frame is an omnipotent persuasive tool that can be decisively wielded by norm entrepreneurs without serious political wrangling.” Hence framing is a meta-

====2NC Threats Real==== 
3. And, Even if they win that their impacts are real, it only masks the root cause—questioning the securitization of the 1AC solves
Mack, former prof, 91—former prof at Harvard Medical School. MD in Psychiatry. (John E., Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59)
Attempts to explore the psychological roots of enmity are frequently met with [ … ] we never see our enemy’s motives and we never labor to asses his will with anything approaching objectivity.”

====2NC Perm==== 
**6. Cloaking DA - The reasons for pursuing a policy are central to understanding it, we must reject liberal reforms that mask the security apparatus by shifting the frame of debate because they effectively kill critique and sustain security logic.**
**Burke 2007** (Anthony, Senior Lecturer @ School of Politics & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, 2007, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, p. 3-4,)
These frameworks are interrogated at the level both of their theoretical conceptualisation and their practice: [… ] political and intellectual debate about insecurity, violent conflict and global injustice can become hostage to a claustrophic structure of political and ethical possibility that systematically wards off critique.

**7. Framing DA - Discourse that humanizes security by utilizing it and trying to change it only strengthens the elite strategy that remains within the ontological confines of security sustaining contemporary political order.**
**Burke 2002** (Anthony, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland , “Aporias of Security”, Questia,)
My particular concern with humanist discourses of security is that, [... ]
through a reading of Hobbes, Locke, the utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, and Hegel, using Foucault's writings on governmental reason as a loose template.

**8. Co-option DA - Orthodox security studies remains a firm hegemony, alternatives that do not challenge disciplinary norms by utilizing the rhetoric of security causes co-option and kills future potential alternatives.**
**Jones 1999** (Richard Wyn is Dr Richard Wyn Jones becomes the Director of the University’s Wales Governance Centre – a key centre for knowledge and research on governance, devolution and constitutional affairs.Derek Jones, Cardiff University’s Director of Business and Strategic Partnerships, formerly the Senior Director of the Welsh Assembly Government. “Security, Strategy and Critical Theory” pg. 145-147. 1999. Questia,)
If this analysis of the conceptualization of the theory-practice nexus in the work of critical theorists is correct, [ ... ] but are also unlikely to share some of the material and professional benefits enjoyed by their less radical colleagues (see, for example, Booth 1997a: 96–97).
====2NC AT: Case o/w==== 
That’s the link—the idea that experts can somehow make claims about the world while others can’t maintains security logic—their arguments are empirically denied
Menand 5—PhD from Columbia. Attended Harvard Law for one year. (Louis, 12/5, Everybody's an Expert, The New Yorker, http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?printable=true)
It is the somewhat gratifying lesson of Philip Tetlock’s new book, “Expert Political Judgment: How Good Is It? How Can We Know?” [... ]
The experts judged the second scenario more likely than the first, even though it required two separate events to occur. Theywere seduced by the detail.

**. The aff artificially constructed advantages with random factoids just to make the plan seem like a good idea. This makes solvency a rigged game – vote neg to avoid serial policy failure and error replication**
**Dillon and Reid, 00** (Michael and Julian, Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency. By: Dillon, Michael, Reid, Julian, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, 03043754, Jan-Mar2000, Vol. 25, Issue 1)
More specifically, where there is a policy problematic there is expertise, and where there is expertise there, too, a policy problematic will emerge. [...] of wealth, opportunity, and mortal danger both locally and globally through the very detailed ways in which life is variously (policy) problematized by it.

====2NC Risk Calculus K==== 
**Traditional risk assessment strips us of our relations to others and our dignity—this obscures how structural violence contributes to large-scale destruction**
**O’Brien 2k**—PhD, environmental scientist and activist (Mary, © 2000, MIT Press, “Making Better Environmental Decisions: An Alternative to Risk Assessment”, Gigapedia, p. xvii-xviii,)
This book is based on the understanding that it is not acceptable for people to tell you that the harms to which they will subject you and the world are safe or insignificant. You deserve to know good alternatives to those harms, and you deserve to help decide which alternative will be chosen. [...] Installing alternatives assessment is one step in the struggle to use information, feeling, and a sense of relationship to others to stop socioenvironmental madness.


===Khatri K=== 
====1NC==== 

*NOTE* this is a tribtue- not an actual k. DDW '11
The affirmative engages in a cycle of technological thought that strips them of being. The alternative is to Be as Parth—only in Being-as-Parth does any alternative ontology become possible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Masterson 97 Mick, professor of philosophy, UWales Aberystwyth; //Being as Parth: Heideggerian Phenomenology through the Ontological State of Parth//; Oxford University Press; 1997; pp.36-37</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline">How then, is escape from this cycle of technological ontology possible? How can the post-modern subject become anything more than standing reserve?</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> How can one view the world as more than standing reserve? </span><span class="DebateUnderline">The answer lies</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, I contend</span><span class="DebateUnderline">, in Being-as-Parth. The poetic and awe-inspiring ontology of Parth is such that emancipation from the enframed, post-modern world becomes possible. Only in looking like a grown-ass man is a truly poetic mode of Being possible. Only in Being hilarious and Indian can the world become more than mere gestell. Only at the cruel hands of Liam does an alternative, previously unexplored mode of Being reveal itself. Only in the sexual assault of innumerable Eskimos does politics escape the closure of modern management and calculation. Being-as-Parth, I contend, is the only authentic ontology in the post-modern state. Only in Being-as-Parth can the Rhine River become more than a source for human power. Only in Being-as-Parth do the chains of calculability disappear. Only in Being-as-Parth is the true essence of technology disclosed. To Parth, nature is more than just ready-to-hand</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Being-as-Parth, much as Dasein, is constantly ahead of itself. However, while Dasein orients its ontology towards its death, Parth knows no mortality. Parth cannot be-towards-death, as Parth cannot be destroyed. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">Like authentic Dasein, Parth understands the alternative ontological possibilities open to Him, at least he would if there were any. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The true essence of nature, of technology, and of Being disclose themselves unto the cold stare of Parth out of sheer terror at his awesome, flat-footed will. When my colleagues ask, “How is escape from these inauthentic, calculating, and enframed ontologies possible?” I simply laugh. “In Being-as-Parth, my young, naïve scholar, I say. In Being-as-Parth.”</span></span></span>
==Framework== 
===1NC Framework=== 
**A) “Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum**
**Army Officer School, 04** (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and
Semicolon”, [[@http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm]])
The colon introduces …) That this council petition the mayor.

**B) “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is**
**solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means**
**Ericson, 03** (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts –
California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition,
p. 4)

The Proposition of Policy: … future action that you propose.

**This is a prior question that must be resolved first – it is a**
**pre-condition for debate to occur**
**Shively, 2k** – Assistant Prof Political Science at Texas A&M (Ruth
Lessl, Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 181-2)

The requirements given thus far are primarily…. intelligibly
contesting it. In other words, contestation rests on some basic
agreement or harmony.

**Focusing on the details and inner-workings of government policy-making**
**is productive – critical approaches can’t resolve real world problems**
**like poverty, racism and war**
**McClean, 01** – Adjunct Professor of Philosophy, Molloy College, New
York (David E., “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,”
Presented at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for the
Advancement of American Philosophy,
[[@http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm|www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm]])

Yet for some reason, at least partially explicated in … with their
snobish disrespect for the so-called "managerial

**And, our framework is also socially productive – forcing students to**
**assert policy solutions has tremendous research and education benefits**
**and encourages them to become advocates for change rather than mere**
**spectators**
**Joyner, 99** – Professor of International Law in the Government
Department at Georgetown University (Christopher C., Spring, 199, 5
ILSA J Int'l & Comp L 377)

Use of the debate can be an effective pedagogical tool for education
in the social sciences. Debates, like other role-playing simulations,
help students understand different perspectives on a policy issue by
adopting a perspective as …analysis, political critique, and legal
defense
===2NC Framework=== 
**Narratives are accommodated into hegemonic structures- they obscure the connection between particular stories and universal problems and place certain truths beyond question- this is an epistemological indict**
Patricia **Ewick** and Susan S. **Silbey** Law & Society Review, 00239216, 19**95**, Vol. 29, Issue 2

In the previous section, we … narrative of right and liability.

**Switch side debate is necessary for the creation of an agonistic debate community – the alternative is antagonism**
**Arendt 5** (… Hannah. The Promise of Politics. P. 18-19)

More than his friend as a … which no rulership is needed.

**Sound conviction can only happen after thoroughly researching and debating both sides of an issue – it is hypocritical and immoral not to require debaters to defend both sides**
**Muir, 93** – Department of Communications at George Mason (Star A., “A Defense of the Ethics of Contemporary Debate,” Philosophy and Rhetoric, Vol. 26, No. 4. Gale Academic Onefile)
In a tolerant context, convictions can … strength of a reasoned moral conviction.

**And, the fact that we may not become policymakers makes this education more important, not less**
**Keller et al 01,** WHITTAKER, AND BURKE, 01 (Thomas E., James K., and Tracly K., Asst. professor School of Social Service Administration U. of Chicago, professor of Social Work, and doctoral student School of Social Work, "Student debates in policy courses: promoting policy practice skills and knowledge through active learning," Journal of Social Work Education, Spr/Summer, EBSCOhost)

Experiential learning, in the form … , may remember longer (Meyers & Jones, 1993).

**Policy debate might not change the world, but critical debate definitely won’t–only theory with direct policy applications has any chance of influencing the state**
**Donovan and Larkin, 06** (Claire and Phil, Australian National University, Politics, Vol 26:1)

It would be naïve to … that this will not happen.

==Disadvantages== 
===Coercion=== 
====<span class="Author-Date">1nc- Jared Wright disagrees with your aff</span>==== 
<span class="Author-Date">Government-run space exploration is coercive</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Villacampa ’06</span>, Alexander Villacampa, economics degree from the University of Florida, fellow at the Mises Institute, September 20, 2006, “NASA: Exemplary of Government Waste”, [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig7/villacampa2.html]], DKreus
It is quickly becoming the natural state of .... up in the golden pockets of pork-barrelers.

Every instance leads close to tyranny
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Browne 95</span>, former Libertarian presidential candidate
(Harry, executive director of public policy at American Liberty Foundation, editor of Liberty Magazine, financial advisor and economist, //Why Government Doesn’t Work//, pg 66-67) *edited for gendered language

The reformers of the Cambodian revolution ....e of all the failed government programs that came before.
Freedom outweighs
Sylvester <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Petro</span>, professor of law at Wake Forest, Spring <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1974</span>, Toledo Law Review, p480
However, one may still insist .... with undyingspirit.

====Warming Link==== 
Justifying governmental interference to cope with coming environmental disasters throws open the floodgates for the total pillage of our liberty
Tibor R.<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Machan</span>, Research Fellow @ Hoover Institution, Professor Emeritus in the Department of Philosophy at Auburn University, February 24,<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span>,LewRockwell.com, “Science in the Service of Power,” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/machan/machan42.html]]
Now when you hear<span class="DebateUnderline"> word of </span>impending disaster<span class="DebateUnderline"> ..... of reality, more a function of </span>power-seeking.

====A2: Util/Case Outweighs (Prepare to have your mind blown)==== 
We access most probable internal link to extinction.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rand 1963 </span>(Ayn, The Virtue of Selfishness: A New Concept of Egoism, Page 145) edited for gendered language
A society that robs an individual of the product of his [or her] effort or enslaves him [or her], <span class="DebateUnderline">or attempts to limit the freedom of</span>his [or her] <span class="DebateUnderline">mind</span>, or compels him [or her] to act against his [or her] own rational judgement—a society that sets up a conflict between<span class="DebateUnderline"> its edicts and the requirements of</span> [hu]man’s nature—is not, strictly speaking, a society<span class="DebateUnderline">, but a mob</span> held together by institutionalized gang-rule. Such<span class="DebateUnderline"> a society </span>destroys all the values of human coexistence<span class="DebateUnderline">, has no possible justification and represents</span>, not a source of benefits, but the deadliest threat to [hu]man’s survival. Life on a desert island is safer than and incomparably preferable to existence in Soviet Russia or Nazi Germany.

Risking extinction to protect rights is justified – we shouldn’t protect future generations if they have no liberty.
Henry <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shue</span>, Professor of Ethics and Public Life, Princeton University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1989</span>, <Nuclear Deterrence and Moral Restraint, p. 64-5>
The issue raises interesting problems about .... that the next generation would want only life__?__



Their claims justify atrocity – rights come first. Utilitarian impacts are overblown and wont occur
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Callahan</span>, Fellow at the Institute of Society and Ethics, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1973</span> (Daniel, The Tyranny of Survival, Pages 91-93)

There seems to be no<span class="DebateUnderline"> imaginable </span>evil which some ... victory<span class="DebateUnderline"> to end all Pyrrhic victories.</span>

Extinction of humanity is inevitable and unavoidable – we should focus on optimizing the time we have by protecting property rights.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Espey 00</span> Distinguished Professor of Life Sciences Trinity This evidence has been gender paraphrased

<Lawrence L. 8/26, ON THE DESTINY OF CIVILIZED CULTURES, [[http://www.trinity.edu/lespey/culture/118essay.html|www.trinity.edu/lespey/culture/118essay.html]]>

<span class="DebateUnderline">An understanding of evolutionary ....</span>extinction might also become the source of his dignity.)


====A2: Util Turns Rights==== 

Util fails to protect moral rights – it silences rights claims
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Byrnes ‘99</span>, JD U Arizona, [Erin Byrnes, JD U Arizona, 1999, “Therapeutic Jurisprudence: Unmasking White Privelege to Expose the Fallacy of White Innocense,” 41 //Ariz. L. Rev.// 535)

<span class="BoldUnderline">Utilitarianism conceives</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> of </span><span class="BoldUnderline">rights as</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> being c....</span><span class="BoldUnderline">rights and the pursuit for overall human welfare</span><span class="DebateUnderline">, the central tenet of utilitarian doctrine.</span>

Util fundamentally fails to protect individual rights – “greatest good” claims simply conflict.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Byrnes ‘99</span>, JD U Arizona, [Erin Byrnes, JD U Arizona, 1999, “Therapeutic Jurisprudence: Unmasking White Privelege to Expose the Fallacy of White Innocense,” 41 //Ariz. L. Rev.// 535)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Moral rights are objectionable not only because they lack social recognition but also because they....</span><span class="DebateUnderline">y individual desires as possible.</span>

====<span class="DebateUnderline">A2: Link E/D (RIP- Rufus' Old Wiki)</span>==== 
<span class="DebateUnderline">1. What about every instance don't you understand? Just because muggings are inevitable doesn't mean you don't help someone getting mugged. </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">2. </span><span style="color: #3b5998; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E73rQ4vPrRo]]</span>









===EPA riders DA=== 
====<span class="s1">**1NC Warming**</span>==== 
**No EPA Stripping now**
<span class="s2">**Graves, 11** </span>[Lucia, Huffington Post, “War On The EPA: Republican Bills Would Erase Decades Of Protection”, 10/9, <span class="s3">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/09/epa-republican-war-defund_n_1000664.html]]</span>]

<span class="s4">WASHINGTON -- </span><span class="s1">**America's environmental protections are under a sweeping, concerted assault in […]****The White House also has promised vetoes of the measures**</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**The plan is must pass- means stripping gets attached**
<span class="s2">**Graves, 11** </span>[Lucia, Huffington Post, “War On The EPA: Republican Bills Would Erase Decades Of Protection”, 10/9, <span class="s3">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/09/epa-republican-war-defund_n_1000664.html]]</span>]

Still, once <span class="s6">anti-EPA legislation</span> is written, it <span class="s6">can wind up attached must-pass bills</span>, or at least used <span class="s6">to try and embarrass Democrats </span>[…] But I think I understand their strategy, and I think it will backfire because Americans want clean water and clean air, and they think that clean water and clean air are important for our economy

**EPA Stripping causes rampart warming –**
<span class="s7">**Parenti, 10**</span> [Christian <span class="s4">Parenti</span>**,** writer for the Nation, NPR, “The Nation: The Case for EPA Action]
<span class="s4">On April 1 </span><span class="s1">**the Environmental Protection Agency established rules restricting greenhouse […] The EPA is our last, best hope.**</span>

**Extinction**
<span class="s9">**Tickell 08**</span> (Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, 8-11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)
We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra. But <span class="s6">**the idea that we could adapt to a 4C rise is absurd and dangerous […]** **hothouse Earth**</span><span class="s5">.</span>
====2NC Link==== 
**1. Prefer specificity & recency – GOP are looking for any excuse – but they can’t get it done now – the plan means the Rider IMMIDIETLY Gets done**
<span class="s9">**Sanchez** **&** **Strong 11**</span> (Jonathan Strong - covers House leadership for Roll Call. He previously served as an investigative reporter for the Daily Caller and before that reported on environmental regulations for Inside EPA.; Humberto Sanchez - covers the Senate for Roll Call. Prior to joining, he covered the budget and appropriations process for Congress Daily and now NJ Daily for three years. previously worked at the Bond Buyer covering state and local budget and finance issues. B.A. in philosophy from James Madison University and is also an alumnus of States News Service. 10/17/11; “Trouble Brewing on Spending Republicans Likely to Add Contentious Policy Riders to Appropriations Bills”, [["|http://www.rollcall.com/issues/57_42/Trouble-Brewing-on-Spending-209506-1.html?pos=hme]] )

September's continuing resolution might keep the government funded through Nov. 18, but the first signs of yet another ugly shutdown showdown are already starting to appear. With overall funding levels set, round four of the 2011 government shutdown fight isn't expected to center on conservatives' effort to cut more spending[…] People don't want legislation that controls their personal life."

**this is specifically true in gridlock**
<span class="s9">**Volden and Brady 06**</span> – Brady is a professor of political science and business, and Senior Fellow and Deputy Director of the Hoover Institute at Stanford University, and Volden is an assistant professor of political science at the Ohio State University - 06 (David W. Brady and Craig Volden, “Revolving Gridlock : Politics and Policy from Jimmy Carter to George W. Bush,” Pg 35, Westview Press, 2006)

<span class="s4">More often, however,</span> <span class="s1">gridlock is maintained through members from divorce districts who are very responsive to the electorate and thus at odds with their fellow legislators</span><span class="s4">[…], gridlock is more likely when congress is confronting deficits than when it is ignoring them or facing surpluses.</span>
====<span class="s1">**2NC overview**</span>==== 
**Warmign straight outweighs- It’s the only existential risk –**
**A. Magnitude – greenhouses gasses cause runaway warming cause the sea levels to rise which destroys farmland leads to resource shortages which reduces the earth’s carrying capacity- this causes extinction because of a feedback mechanism**

**1. The Earth will explode**
Dr. Tom J. <span class="s1">**Chalko**</span>, MS, Engineering & PhD, Laser Holography, “Global Warming: Can Earth Explode?” 20<span class="s1">**02**</span>, [[http://www.bioresonant|http://www.bioresonant.com/news.htm]]<span class="s10">.</span>

<span class="s1">**The real danger for our entire civilization […]**</span><span class="s11"> It cannot be undone.</span>


**Causes ocean acidification, destroying ocean ecosystems – Turns case**
Nicholas **Kristof**, //NYT//, “Scandal below the surface,” 10/31/20**06,** [[http://select.nytimes.com/2006/10/31/opinion/31kristof.html?_r=1%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://select.nytimes.com/2006/10/31/opinion/31kristof.html?_r=1]]
<span class="s1">If you think of the earth’s surface as a great beaker, then it’s filled mostly with ocean water[…] **on the shoulders of plankton**</span><span class="s10">.</span>

**Emissions collapse oxygen levels killing everyone.**
Peter **Tatchell**, //The Guardian//, “The oxygen crisis,” 20**08**, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/13/carbonemissions.climatechange%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/13/carbonemissions.climatechange]]
<span class="s1">The rise in carbon dioxide emissions is big news. […] At the levels we have reached today cancers and other degenerative diseases are likely to develop. And at 6 to 7% life can no longer be sustained</span>.
**Causes methane explosions that cause global Armageddon.**
**Pearce**, environmental consultant and BEMA environment journalist of the year, 20**07** Fred, With speed and violence: why scientists fear tipping points in climate change, p. 76-77
One of my favorite films is Dr. Strangelove. It was made<span class="s13">back in 1964</span><span class="s12">[…]. </span>But we have to change tense here. For "would create," read "is creating<span class="s12">.</span>

**Your impacts are exaggerated anyway**
<span class="s9">**Martin ’84**</span> (Brian, Research Associate – Australian National University, SANA Update, “Extinction Politics”, No. 16, May, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html)
<span class="s1">Yet in spite of the widespread belief in nuclear extinction, **there was almost no scientific support for such a possibility[…]**</span><span class="s14">.</span><span class="s4"> The most serious possibilities would result from major ecological destruction, but this remains speculative at present.</span>

**Turns case:**

**Warming causes resource shortages and famines as crops dry up and ice caps melt - that makes wars and economic devastation inevitable. Runaway warming creates positive feedbacks and the conditions for famine that cause political instability and extinction.**
Lester R. <span class="s12">**Brown**</span>, founder of the Worldwatch Institute and the Earth Policy Institute, <span class="s12">**08**</span>
[“Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization,” http://www.earth-policy.org/index.php?/books/pb3]

In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow at Princeton University published an article in Science that showed how <span class="s1">[…] Civilization itself could begin to unravel</span> under these extreme stresses.

**Their impacts have 0 probablity**
<span class="s9">**Gelb 10**</span> - President Emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations. He was a senior official in the U.S. Defense Department from 1967 to 1969 and in the State Department from 1977 to 1979 (Leslie, Foreign Affairs, “GDP Now Matters More Than Force: A U.S. Foreign Policy for the Age of Economic Power,” November/December, proquest)
<span class="s4">Also </span><span class="s1">reducing the likelihood of conflict today is that **there is no arena in which** **the vital interests of great powers seriously clash** </span><span class="s4">[…] To be sure, </span><span class="s1">great powers such as China and Russia will tussle with one another for advantages, but they will stop well short of direct confrontation</span><span class="s5">..</span>

**Warming risks devastating disease—ancient microbes will emerge from the ice**
Kate <span class="s1">**Ravilious**</span>, “Global Warming: Death in the Deep-Freeze,” THE INDEPENDENT, 9-28-<span class="s1">**05**</span>, [[http://www.commondreams.org/headlines05/0928-02.htm]], accessed 5-2-08.

<span class="s1">**As global warming melts the world's ice sheets** </span><span class="s11">[…] </span><span class="s1">**What is more, new species unknown to science may re-emerge. And it is not just humans who are at risk: animals, plants and marine creatures could also suffer as ancient microbes thaw out**</span><span class="s11">.</span>

**Extinction**
John D. <span class="s1">**Steinbruner**</span>, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution, “Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses,” FOREIGN POLICY n. 109, Winter 1997/19<span class="s1">**98**</span>, pp. 85-96, ASP.

<span class="s15">It is a considerable comfort and undoubtedly a key to our survival that […]</span><span class="s16">T</span><span class="s1">**he threat of infectious pathogens is not just an issue of public health, but a fundamental security problem for the species as a whole**</span><span class="s11">.</span>
===Politics=== 
Sorry this part has gotten unmanagable - i'll send you cites if u need them - but here's a list of what we've read at every tournament
====Wake - SKFTA==== 
====St.Marks - Jobs==== 
(Econ)
====Alpharetta - Payroll Tax Cuts==== 
(Econ)
====Michigan - Payroll Tax Cuts==== 
(Warming, Econ)
====GBX- Payroll Tax Cuts==== 
(Bioterror, Warming)

====MBA- Payroll Tax Cuts==== 
(Warming, Econ)
**Payroll tax cuts will be extended through 2012. Obama’s capital is key and he has enough on the issue**
**ABC NEWS 12 – 31 – 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama Maps Out ‘Warrior of Working Class’ Message, [[http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2011/12/obama-maps-out-warrior-of-working-class-message/]]</span>

__The president will continue to claim the mantle for ....__ __which helped Obama look more presidential.”__


**Plan unpop**
**Rendleman, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
__Whether the DOD will decide to develop any small satellites ....__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> keeping it in storage does not appear to support a winning space strategy.</span>


**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">PTC key to Obama in 2012</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moberg 11</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(David. Staff Writer, “Will Obama’s Job Plan Save His?” In These Times, [[@http://inthesetimes.com/article/12163/will_obamas_job_plan_save_his]])</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Even if Obama’s new jobs bill, which was proposed in September, did ...by 1.34 percentage points, a small but not insignificant edge.</span>

**GOP victory ends checks on climate**
**Becker, 11** Director of the Presidential Climate Action Project, 5/18
(Bill, “In 2012, vote for climate courage”, 5/18/2011, accessed 6/24/2011 [[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/05/18/208113/2012-vote-climate-courage/]] )
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Almost </span>**__every prominent Republican who has ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with China, Japan and India, who are “laughing at America’s stupidity”. Oh, and he has a piece of coastal real estate he wants to sell us.)</span>
**Extinction**
**Tickell 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, 8-11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of ...could propel us towards </span>**__a__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> similar </span>**__hothouse Earth__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===//__Politics Links__//=== 
====//__Space Tourism__//==== 
Plan costs capital
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Foust 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of The Space Review, “Prospects and Concerns for Export Control Reform”, 3/29/10, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1595/1]], Caplan]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">It’s not certain, though, that Congress will follow through....</span>. “That’s why my optimism is tempered with caution.”

====DSCOVR==== 
The plan guarantees a political battle -- costs capital.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Boyle 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/23/11, Rebecca, Popular Science, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Satellite Gap,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amid all this, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the country’s</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ....</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> funding.</span>

Congress hates climate science
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Friedman, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Executive Director of </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Planetary Society</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Director of the Society's LightSail Program (3/21/11, Lou, The Space Review, “Earthquakes and Climate Change: Get the Data,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1802/1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Now consider the following: ....<span class="Underline"> and elsewhere who oppose Earth science, </span>it does not<span class="Underline">; </span>they __want to eliminate the satellites and monitoring and modeling.__

Congress backlashes against the plan -- links satellites to warming discussions.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McEntee, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– executive director of the American Geophysical Union (4/1/11, Christine W., The Hill, “Science </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">÷</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Politics = a Loss for Everyone,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/153243-science-d-politics-a-loss-for-everyone</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Despite overwhelming ...American people and our economy<span class="Underline">.</span> Consider This:




===Space Mil=== 
**Perception of dominance kills cooperation**
**Dant, 11** - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])

**//Cooperation for contested and competitive domain.....//**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> coalition of responsible space-faring nations.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**Cooperation is key to prevent gloal war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern ....</span>__<span style="font-size: 7px; line-height: 9px;"> The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>


===Earth Science Tradeoff DA=== 
====<span class="s1">**1NC**</span>==== 

**NASA’s budget levels will demand difficult choices, but the Administration is committed to Earth science programs.**
<span class="s2">**Holdren 11**</span> **– Director office of Science and Tech policy**
(John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”, <span class="s2">http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/jph-house-sst-testimony-2-17-11.pdf</span>, 2-17)

National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) This past October, the President signed the 2010 NASA Authorization Act (the “Act”, Public Law 111-267), […] Earth orbit, including sufficient support for the operations of the ISS.

**Empirically, emphasis on space exploration trades off with Earth science research.**
<span class="s2">**Stempeck 05** </span>– Senior reporter for E&E Daily
(Brian, E&E Daily senior reporter, “CLIMATE CHANGE: <span class="s4">**NASA**</span> space missions may undermine climate studies,” April 29, Environment and Energy Daily, Lexis)

A member of the National Academy of Sciences' National Research Council told a House panel yesterday that <span class="s2">[…] are some of the most at-risk programs</span>, he said.

**Earth sciences solves multiple scenarios for extinction, including climate change.**
<span class="s5">**Killeen 5** </span>– Phd. , Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research
(Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]]) NAR

<span class="s6">It is clear after decades of pioneering satellite observations that </span><span class="s1">[…] the regional manifestation of global scale climate change; and the reactions of ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses. </span>

**Warming causes extinction**
<span class="s2">**Mazo 10**</span>– PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122

The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century range from 2.5-4.~C […]<span class="s2"> cultural and political changes.</span>
====<span class="s1">**2NC Overview** </span>==== 


**Even 1% risk justifies action -- the consequences are too big.**
<span class="s1">**Strom, 2007**</span>
[Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246]

Keep in mind that <span class="s2">the </span><span class="s8">current </span><span class="s2">consequences of </span><span class="s8">global </span><span class="s2">[…]</span> Clearly we cannot afford to delay taking action by waiting for additional research to more clearly define what awaits us. <span class="s8">The time for action is now.</span>


====<span class="s1">**2NC Uniqueness Wall**</span>==== 



Currently, NASA is funding its Earth science program, which is focused on climate change solutions (This is your author, writing a year later)
<span class="s2">**Werner 10-**</span>staff writer
(Debra, Staff Writer, “NASA Ramping Up in Earth Observation”, Space News, 12-28, [[http://www.space.com/10555-nasa-ramping-earth-observation.html]])

Meanwhile, <span class="s2">the latest spending plan enables NASA to move ahead with the four missions given the highest priority in the Earth […]</span>" Freilich said. As a result, NASA plans to mount the third-generation Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas Experiment on the international space station in 2014, he said. That instrument, which has been stored at NASA's Langley Research Center in Hampton, Va., since 2004, is designed to measure ozone, aerosols and water vapor.

**Increase in earth science programs now**
<span class="s2">[[http://pubs.acs.org/cen/staff/bi|**Morrissey**]] **11**</span> - PHD in Chemistry
(Susan R., “NASA: Funding Is Flat, But Earth Science Programs Grow”, 02/28/11http://pubs.acs.org/cen/coverstory/89/8909cover7.html)

The <span class="s2">President’s 2012 […]</span>. These funds will go into other programs.

**Here’s the NASA budget**
<span class="s2">**Weaver 11 -**</span> NASA Associate Administrator for the Office of Communications
(Daniel S., NASA Announces Fiscal Year 2012 Budget, February 14th, 6-27-11, http://www.nasa.gov/home/hqnews/2011/feb/HQ_11-041_NASA_Budget.html)

WASHINGTON -- <span class="s2">NASA […]</span> "We're looking at new ways of doing business that improve program management and delivers even greater results to the American taxpayers."

**Political support**
<span class="s2">**Werner 10**</span>– staff writer
(Debra, Staff Writer, “NASA Ramping Up in Earth Observation”, Space News, 12-28, [["h|http://www.space.com/10555-nasa-ramping-earth-observation.html]])

<span class="s2">Strong support from the White House and U.S. […]</span> over the previous budget blueprint, Freilich said. If approved by Congress, that money will allow NASA "to go from flying one mission every couple of years to flying a couple of missions per year," he said.

====<span class="s1">**2NC Link Wall (Top Level)**</span>==== 


**Empirically, NASA will cut funding from existing programs to pay for new projects**
<span class="s2">**Stern 8**</span> – Astrophysicist and planetary scientist
(Alan - an astrophysicist and planetary scientist, was an associate administrator in charge of the NASA Science Mission Directorate from 2007 to 2008, “NASA’s Black Hole Budgets,” November 27, The New York Times, Lexis)

<span class="s9">Endemic project cost increases at […]</span> Even those two missions are endangered now by the Mars Science Laboratory's spiraling cost.

**NASA funding is a Zero-Sum game**
<span class="s2">**Robinson 8**</span>- assistant professor of history at Hillyer College
(Michael, July 27th 2008, http://hnn.us/node/51386) NAR

But Wellman’s story is worth taking seriously, especially as the United States gears up to replace the aging shuttle fleet[…] “We must not forget that the explorer is not expected merely to travel from one point to another, but that we must expect him also to see and to observe things worth seeing.”

**Space funds trades off with Earth Sciences**
<span class="s2">**NAST 8**</span>- non-profit organization comprised of community leaders, business leaders and former NASA officials(NASA’S ROLE IN THE 21ST CENTURY, Fall 2008, [[http://nastus.org/documents/NASARole.21stCentury.pdf]]) NAR

<span class="s9">The budget needs […] </span> **in space exploration is greatly diminished.**

====<span class="s1">**Link – Asteroid Detection**</span>==== 


**Asteroid surveys** <span class="s1">**steal funds**</span> **from other NASA programs**
<span class="s10">**National Academies 9**</span><span class="s5"> **(“**</span>Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12738]
<span class="s6">Currently, </span><span class="s1">the U.S. government spends a relatively small […] funds needed to achieve them.</span>

**Asteroid programs trade-off within the budget**
<span class="s10">**Johnston 9**</span> (Casey, Associate Writer – Ars Technica and B.S. in Applied Physics – Columbia University, “NASA Asteroid-Tracking Programs Stalled Due to Lack of Funds”, August, [[http://www.space.com/10555-nasa-ramping-earth-observation.html|http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2009/08/nasa-asteroid-tracking-program-stalled-due-to-lack-of-funds.ars]])

The risk of an asteroid rending civilization into bits is a favorite scenario in disaster movies, but it has been none too popular with the United States government[…] The equipment currently in use to track NEOs can easily see the 1km monsters, but it's not sensitive enough to track the 140m asteroids. As a result, if a Tunguska-sized body were headed for Earth today, its arrival would probably be a complete surprise.

====<span class="s1">**----Ext. Warming**</span>==== 


**NASA Earth Science key to solve Global Warming**
<span class="s2">**NAST 8**</span> – non profit dedicated to restoring emphasis on science, aeronautics, and human exploration
( “NASA’S ROLE IN THE 21ST CENTURY“Fall 2008, http://nastus.org/documents/NASARole.21stCentury.pdf)
<span class="s1">2) Monitoring and predicting climate change and the impact of mitigation strategies […] Given the complex feedbacks in the climate system, understanding the possible unintended consequences of such mitigation strategies will become more important</span>

**Earth science program key to global warming data**
<span class="s2">**Werner 10**</span> – writer for spacenews
(Debra, “NASA ramping up in Earth observation” 12/28/10 http://www.spacenews.com/civil/101228-nasa-ramping-earth-obs.html)

NASA’s Earth science program also is <span class="s2">[..]</span> and with the French space agency to measure ocean color as part of the Pre-Aerosol Clouds and Ocean Ecosystem mission scheduled for launch in 2018, Freilich said.

**NASA is key to federal government efforts to combat global warming.**
<span class="s2">**Stempeck 5**</span> – E&E Daily senior reporter
(Brian, “CLIMATE CHANGE: NASA space missions may undermine climate studies,” April 29, Environment and Energy Daily, Lexis)

<span class="s3">Currently, </span><span class="s1">NASA contributes about 60 percent of the funding to […] new capability would be available today</span><span class="s3">," Killeen said.</span>

**Funding NASA’s Earth science division key to combatting climate change.**
<span class="s2">**Kaufman 7**</span> - Staff writer at the Washington Post
(Marc, “Cutbacks Impede Climate Studies; U.S. Earth Programs In Peril, Panel Finds” January 16, Lexis)
<span class="s2">The government's ability to […]</span> "NASA's budget has taken a major hit at the same time that NOAA's program has fallen off the rails," said panel co-chairman Berrien Moore III of the University of New Hampshire. "This combination is very, very disturbing, and it's coming at the very time that we need the information most."

====<span class="s1">**Impact – Ozone** </span>==== 

**NASA-led monitoring key to continued ozone recovery**
**Aerospace Daily 95**<span class="s6"> (7-21, Lexis)</span>

<span class="s2">NASA-funded […]</span>," Robert Harriss, head of the Science Div. in the MTPE headquarters office, said in the agency press release yesterday.

**Specifically – it says this stops ozone depletion – extinction**
<span class="s12">**Greenpeace 95**</span> (Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer -- A Greenpeace Report with contributions from Ozone Action, http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html)

When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina first postulated<span class="s2"> […] **the stakes** **are literally the continuation of life on earth.**</span>

====<span class="s1">**AT: Warming Not Real**</span>==== 

**Warming is occurring rapidly -- it’s real and anthropogenic -- consensus of qualified experts.**
<span class="s2">**Braganza 6/14**</span><span class="s4">**/11**</span> (Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why
,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515, AM)

In public discussions of climate change, the full range and weight of evidence underpinning the current science can be difficult to find. […] <span class="s2"> That continued rapid increases in greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable</span>


==Topicality== 
===Asteroids - Substantially Increase=== 
====<span class="s1">**1NC T- Substantial increase**</span>==== 

**The aff isn’t topical – a** <span class="s1">**substantial … /or exploration requires 2.6 billion dollars** </span>
**Alexander, 8** (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)
On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, President Bush … guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.

**That’s a voting issue**
**a)** <span class="s1">**Limits**</span> **– allowing small modifications … line on substantial is critical**
**Devinsky 2** (Paul, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, IP Update, 5(11), November, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)
In reversing a summary judgment of … <span class="s2">**exact wording of the resolution** </span>

====<span class="s1">**2NC overview**</span>==== 
**Limits are weet – solve participation**
**Rowland,** **84** (Robert C., Debate Coach – Baylor University, “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective, Ed. Parson, p. 53-54)
The first major problem identified by the work group as relating to topic selection is the decline in participation in the National Debate Tournament (NDT) policy debate[…] between institutions that participate in academic debate.”11 In this view, it is the competitive imbalance resulting from the use of broad topics that has led some small schools to cancel their programs.

**e)** <span class="s1">**Holding the line on substantial is key**</span> **– substantial is the** <span class="s1">**only**</span> **check on the topic**
**1. Development already includes 39 things**
<span class="s2">**SAC 96** </span>– Japanese Space Activities Commission (January 24,1996 ,“The Fundamental Policy for Japan's Activities”, http://www.jaxa.jp/library/space_law/chapter_4/4-1-1-4/4-1-1-42_e.html)
Chapter 2 . Organisation of <span class="s3">Space […] Debris</span>
In order to support manned space activities, as well as expanded and more sophisticated unmanned space activities, we will conduct research on space debris monitoring systems , and space weather forecasting systems in order to predict space radiation. In addition, large volume data transmission systems will be studied in order to strengthen the space information and communication infrastructure.

**2. Both exploration and development** <span class="s1">**include**</span> **market strategies**
**Goldin, 1** - NASA Administrator (Daniel, “NASA: Enhanced Strategy for the Development of Space Commerce,” [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=3692]])
<span class="s3">A core NASA mission is "to advance the human exploration[…]</span> NASA participation in commercial activities with the Agency’s mission and values

====<span class="s1">**2nc at: we meet** </span>==== 

**Current baseline is $4 million a year – their evidence**
**SCIENCE FAIR 2010** (1/22, Micelle Kessler, USA Today Social Media Editor, “NASA will miss Congressional deadline for asteroid tracking”, [[http://content.usatoday.com/communities/sciencefair/post/2010/01/620008263/1)//DT]]
NASA won't meet Congressional orders to track most city-smashing-sized asteroids in Earth's neighborhood by 2020[…] <span class="s4">If other research shuts down at Arecibo, the (asteroid detection) share goes up substantially," he says.</span>

**That means the aff would be an increase of** <span class="s1">**$26**</span><span class="s5">0</span><span class="s1"> **million**</span> **a year which is a** <span class="s1">**1%**</span> **increase of what should constitute as substantial – this is assuming the** <span class="s1">**best case scenario**</span> **for the aff – their evidence**
<span class="s2">**POLYCAPITALIST 2010** </span>(I am an independent investor with private sector experience in investment banking, strategy consulting and venture capital. I have worked with both multinationals and startups, and I have served on the board of directors of both publicly traded and private companies. My academic training consists of graduate/postgraduate studies in accounting, finance and economic history. “Cheap Insurance Against the Ultimate Black Swan,” [[http://seekingalpha.com|http://seekingalpha.com/instablog/489997-the-polycapitalist/105674-cheap-insurance-against-the-ultimate-black-swan]])
***calculation note – 300 million divided by 10 years is 30 million a year minus 4 million a year = 26 million a year --- 26 million / 2.6 billion = 1%
I thought it could be a nice[…] We can either spend a few hundred millions dollars and mitigate asteroid risk. Or we can continue to roll the dice risking perhaps all life on earth.
====<span class="s1">**2nc at: counterinterp x%/$x**</span>==== 

**3. Here’s more evidence – we’ll bury them on this violation – NASA’s exploration budget is only 4.2 billion – that means the aff is a** <span class="s1">**.6%**</span> **increase**
***calculation note – 26 million / 4.2 billion = .6%**
Klamper, 10 **(Amy, Space News, 6/30, “House Panel Fences Off NASA’s Exploration Budget,” [[http://www.spacenews.com/policy/100630-house-appropriators-nasa-direction.html]])**
**Adding to the uncertainty surrounding NASA’s human spaceflight program[…] making the money off limits until a new NASA authorization bill is enacted.**

4. Or maybe they’re development in which case they’re a .03% increase
GAO 10 **– US Government Accountability Office (“United States Government Stewardship Information (Unaudited) for the Years Ended September 30, 2010, and 2009 Stewardship Investments” [[http://www.gao.gov/financial/fy2010/10stew.pdf]])**
*calculation note – 26 million / 74 billion = .03%
<span class="s3">With regard to development, the DOD and NASA had $65.3 […]</span> Major breakthroughs in our knowledge of the cosmos have already been made with the current suite of missions.





===Space Tourism=== 
====Its==== 
Its implies ownership
**OED 3rd Edition**(“Its”, http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/100354?redirectedFrom=its#eid)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A. adj. As genitive of the pronoun, now </span>__possessive adjective__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
__Of or belonging to it, or that thing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Latin ejus); </span>__also__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> refl., </span>__Of or belonging to itself, its own__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Latin suus).</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The reflexive is often </span>__more fully its own, f__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">or which in earlier times the own, it own, were used: see own adj. and pron.</span>
There’s a distinction – commercial and government are distinct when it comes to space
**Space Island Group, 11** – a space tourism company (“<span style="color: #336699;">Vehicles & Launch Systems,”</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spaceislandgroup.com/vehicles-systems.html]]</span>)

__<span style="color: black;">As a government agency, NASA is ...</span>__<span style="color: black;">the defense industry.</span>

====<span style="color: black;">Substantial/Increase</span>==== 

**a) Increase means net increase**

**<span style="color: black;">Words and Phrases, 5 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Cummulative Supplementary Pamphlet, v. 20a, p.295)</span>



<span style="color: black;">Cal.App.2 Dist. 1991. __Term “increase__,”... West’s Ann.Cal.Pub.Res.Code § 25123.</span>



<span style="color: black;">b) **Substantially should be defined by context**</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Devinsky, 2 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)</span>



<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In reversing a summary judgment of invalidity,</span><span style="color: black;"> __...__ </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">of mechanics, upon reading the patent documents."</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">DSCOVR</span>=== 


====Substantial==== 

Substantial increase in nasa’s budget is 50%

Carole<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Shifrin</span>, writes for Aviation Week & Space Technology, staff writer at the Washington Post, 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">87</span>, “Soviets Consider Possible Mars Rover, Sample Return Missions”

Allen cited the space station science program ..."But that seems somewhat unlikely, under the kind of budget pressures that existed in the past."


The plan is a 2.9% increase

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">Brinton 11</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(Turner Brinton, staff writer for Space News, July 12, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Pair of NOAA Satellite Projects” Space News http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110718-house-panel-denies-funding-for-dscovr-cosmic-2-missions.html</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">The U.S. House Appropriations Committee will vote ...</span> 2011 but $168.6 million less than the request.

===Communication Satellites=== 

====**Increase**==== 
**Increase means to make greater**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Encarta World English Dictionary, 7 </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">(“Increase”, 2007, [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Increase</span>__
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">transitive and intransitive verb (past and past participle in·creased, present participle in·creas·ing, 3rd person present singular in·creas·es)</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Definition: </span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">make or become larger or greate</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">r: to become, or make something become, larger __in number, quantity, or degree__</span>


====Mesosphere==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND - MESOSPHERE is 50 kilometers</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Weisstein 7 (</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Eric W. Weisstein, Math and Science Encyclopedist, http://scienceworld.wolfram.com/astronomy/Mesosphere.html)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The region of the Earth's atmospherefrom roughly 50-80 km altitude.</span>__**



====Development==== 
AND - SPACE DEVELOPMENT MEANS THE EXPANSION OF COMMERCIAL PROJECTS IN SPACE
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])</span>

**__Eric Westling__** is ascience... rapid **__expansion of__** manned **__commercial projects in space__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====Exploration==== 
AND – SPACE EXPLORATION REQUIRES SPACEFLIGHT – THEIR AFF, IN PARTICULAR, DOES NOT MEET OUR INTERPRETATION
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wright 8</span> (Edward, Project Manager – Teachers in Space, Former President – X-Rocket, LLC, and Programming Writer – Microsoft Corporation, Comment on “A Move Against ‘Mars Mission Funding’”, Space Politics, 6-28, [[http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">> No it doesn’t, the article showed democratic support for further unmanned mars missions?</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Unmanned missions are </span>**</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">not exploration</span>//<span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, </span>//****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">they are merely </span>**</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">r...</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ignoring the fact that the private sector is also working on space exploration.</span>

===Limits Good=== 
These outweigh - they’re the __vital access point__ for any theory impact – its key to fairness – huge research burdens mean we can’t compete – and its key to education – big topics cause hyper-generics, lack of clash, and shallow debate – and it destroys participation.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rowland, 84 (</span>Robert C., Debate Coach – Baylor University, “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective, Ed. Parson, p. 53-54)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The first major problem identified by the work... schools to cancel their programs.</span>




==Case Stuff== 
===Nuke Primacy=== 
**Invulnerable first strike capability from satellite causes pre emption and nuclear war- no transition**
**Chari, 7** – Research Professor, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies (“CHINA’S ASAT TEST Seeking the Strategic High Ground,” [[http://www.ipcs.org/pdf_file/issue/1512612560IPCS-Special-Report-34.pdf]] Veevz)

Possession of satellites with both defensive and offensive […] This dispensation is, intrinsically, conducive to great instability and tensions in bilateral relations.

**And it causes prolif**
**Wang, 7** – Professor of National Defense University of the People’s Liberation Army of China (Winter 2007, Zhongchun, China Security, “Nuclear Challenges and China’s Choices,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf, Sawyer)

Since the end of the Cold War, the nuclear balance between the United States and Russia has gradually shifted to a reality of U.S. hegemony over the global nuclear community […] With such efforts and actions by the United States, it is no wonder other countries already under grave national security pressures and driven to pursue nuclear weapons.

**Global nuclear war**
**Taylor,** **1** (Theodore, Chairman of NOVA, Former Nuclear Weapons Designer, Recipient of the US Atomic Energy Commission’s 1965 Lawrence Memorial Award and former Deputy Dir. of Defense Nuclear Agency, “Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”, in “Breakthrough: Emerging New Thinking”, http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/taylor.html)
Nuclear proliferation - be it among nations or terrorists - greatly increases the chance of nuclear violence on a scale that would be intolerable. Proliferation increases the chance that nuclear weapons will fall into the hands of irrational people, either suicidal or with no concern for the fate of the world. Irrational or outright psychotic leaders of military factions or terrorist groups might decide to use a few nuclear weapons under their control to stimulate a global nuclear war, as an act of vengeance against humanity as a whole. Countless scenarios of this type can be constructed. Limited nuclear wars between countries with small numbers of nuclear weapons could escalate into major nuclear wars between superpowers. For example, a nation in an advanced stage of "latent proliferation," finding itself losing a nonnuclear war, might complete the transition to deliverable nuclear weapons and, in desperation, use them. If that should happen in a region, such as the Middle East, where major superpower interests are at stake, the small nuclear war could easily escalate into a global nuclear war<span class="s1">.</span>


**primacy can’t deter**
**Blair and Yali 06**
[Bruce G. <span class="s2">Blair</span>, President of the World Security Institute, author of numerous articles and books on security issues including the Logic of Accidental Nuclear War and Global Zero Alert for Nuclear Forces, <span class="s2">and</span> Chen <span class="s2">Yali</span>, editor in chief of Washington Observer, a Program Manager of Chen Shi China Research Group, Autumn 20<span class="s2">06</span>, “The Fallacy of Nuclear Primacy”, pp. 51-77, World Security Institute, http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_4.pdf ]

<span class="s3">History Refutes the Primacy PredictionsIf the Russian strategic nuclear forces were acutely vulnerable 10-15 years ago,[…] Russia and China appear quite confident in their deterrent arsenals in spite of the lopsided U.S. advantage estimated by models of nuclear war. </span>

**Can’t solve irrational actors**
**Blair and Yali 06**
[Bruce G. <span class="s2">Blair</span>, President of the World Security Institute, […] The Taiwan issue has been a core national interest of China, one that arouses such fervent emotions throughout the country that <span class="s5">irrational behavior in its use of nuclear weapons cannot be ruled out. </span>

====<span class="s1">**2NC overview**</span>==== 
**B. Timeframe of the reaction - proliferation causes hella fast breakout prolif - 4 separate scenarios for extinction**
**Cirincione ‘7** (Joe, Pres. Ploughshares Fund and Senior Fellow and Dir. Nuclear Policy – Center for American Progress, National Interest, “Symposium: Apocalypse When?” November/December, L/N)
Let me be clear: <span class="s1">Nuclear proliferation is a real danger</span>[…] <span class="s1">**risks a return to the 1950s nuclear free-for-all**</span><span class="s2">.</span>

**C. conflict escalation – small wars escalate to become global and nuclear with every1 having weapons – wrecks deterrence – regional warfare -**
**Cimbala ‘7** (Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Journal of Slavic Military Studies, “NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION AND DETERRENCE IN ASIA: THE VIEW FROM VLADIVOSTOK”, 20, InformaWorld)

<span class="s1">There is no “magic number” of nuclear-armed states that guarantees a first use of nuclear weapons in the twenty-first century […] One of the major risks of nuclear weapons spread in Asia is the possibility that states with first strike vulnerable nuclear forces will “use them or lose them” on the basis of faulty indications and warning</span>.

**D. Nuclear deterrence rewards brinksmanship leading to rapid escalation – Their arguments prove why deterrence is uniquely likely to fail with the aff**
**Trachtenberg ‘2** (Marc, Prof. Pol. Sci. – UCLA, The National Interest, “Waltzing to Armageddon?” Fall, L/N)

<span class="s1">Waltz does not approach the problem this way. For him, wars are started by one side or another </span>[…]<span class="s1"> where political outcomes are up for grabs and victory goes to the side with the strongest nerves, would be particularly stable</span>?



====<span class="s1">**AT: Lieber and Press/Foreign Policy**</span>==== 
**Lieber and press are wrong- US nuclear primacy doesn’t cause deterrence and leads to escalation**
Li <span class="s3">**Bin**</span>, a Chinese physicist, works on arms control and international security, professor of the Department of International Relations and Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University, directs the Arms Control Program at Tsinghua University, 20<span class="s3">**06**</span>, “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth”, Issue 4, http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=213&Itemid=8&lang=zh
<span class="s1">The Lieber and Press paper also raises the concern that China might use nuclear […] U.S. nuclear primacy has a strong negative effect on controlling nuclear escalation. </span>

**Their Lieber and Press evidence is flawed—international dialogue is a better option**
James M. <span class="s3">**Acton**</span>, senior associate in the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment and a Stanton Nuclear Security Fellow, physicist who specializes in deterrence, disarmament, nonproliferation, and nuclear energy, joint UK member of the International Panel on Fissile Materials, 5/1/<span class="s3">**10**</span>, “MANAGING VULNERABILITY”, http://goliath.ecnext.com/coms2/gi_0199-12578010/Second-strike-is-the-U.html
<span class="s1">The main problem with Lieber and Press' argument is that no state actually has a small arsenal consisting solely of silo-based missiles</span>[…]<span class="s1"> make this goal harder to achieve.</span>

====<span class="s1">**Small Arsenals 2NC**</span>==== 

**Double bind – either small states can’t build survivable deterrents creating instability or they will build large unstable arsenals for second strike creating C and C problems**
**Busch ‘4** (Nathan, Visiting Ass. Prof. Public & Int’l Affairs – Center for Int’l. Trade & Security – UGA, “ No End in Sight: The continuing Menace of Nuclear Proliferation”, p. 282-283)

The evidence concerning the likelihood of NWSs developing survivable forces is somewhat mixed. […]Larger and more complex systems might be more survivable (though they still might be vulnerable to a nuclear first strike), but they also significantly increase command-and-control difficulties, as we will see in the next section.

====<span class="s1">**2nc at: no link** </span>==== 

<span class="s1">**Perceptions matter**</span> **– the plan’s pursuit of capability regardless of intentions triggers the link**
<span class="s4">**Lieber & Press, 7** </span>– *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND **Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College (Winter 2007, Keir A., Daryl G., China Security, “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of Chinese Deterrent,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf, Sawyer)**
**Finally, the importance of the shift in the nuclear balance does not hinge on the U.S. willingness[…]** the pursuit of nuclear primacy should be expected to trigger a response among U.S. adversaries.

Escalating action/reaction cycles ensures rivalry and mutual aggression
Lieber & Press, 7 **– *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND** Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College (Winter 2007, Keir A., Daryl G., China Security, “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of Chinese Deterrent,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf, Sawyer)
In sum, we do not claim to know for certain how China will react to growing U.S. counterforce capabilities; after all, other Chinese strategists may disagree with Shen and Sun and instead claim that Chinese leaders place less emphasis on force survivability. […] <span class="s5">Continuing to hone U.S. counterforce capabilities under the assumption that leaders in Beijing will do nothing in response is reckless.</span>

====<span class="s1">**No Offense Ext.**</span>==== 
**No offense – several reasons**
<span class="s4">**Li, 6** </span>– Director of the Arms Control Program and Professor of the Institute of International Studies (2006, Bin, China Security “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=213, Sawyer)
The power pattern in the world has significantly changed since the end of the cold war. […] we might still avoid the re-emergence of the Cold War’s worst nightmare scenarios.

**No perception offense – nuclear primacy based deterrence fails**
<span class="s4">**Li, 6** </span>– Director of the Arms Control Program and Professor of the Institute of International Studies (2006, Bin, China Security “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=213, Sawyer)
<span class="s6">The Lieber and Press thesis speculates that the United States[…]</span><span class="s1">would send coercive signals and how its rivals would interpret the signals.</span>

**Plus first strike fails anyways**
<span class="s4">**Li, 6** </span>– Director of the Arms Control Program and Professor of the Institute of International Studies (2006, Bin, China Security “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=213, Sawyer)
The Lieber and Press paper tries to prove that the United States […] but a surprise attack at peacetime alert levels would have a reasonable chance of success.”

===Econ=== 
====Frontline==== 
**No Impact:**
**A) No correlation**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">FERGUSON 2006</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Niall, MA, D.Phil., is the Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University. He is a resident faculty member of the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies. He is also a Senior Reseach Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford University, and a Senior Fellow of the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, Foreign Affairs, Sept/Oct)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nor can economic crises explain the bloodshed. ....</span> __and some__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">severe economic crises</span> __were not followed by wars__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**B) Resiliency**
**Washington Times 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief political correspondent of The Washington Times (7/28/08, Donald Lambro, The Washington Times, "Always darkest before dawn", lexis, WEA)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The doom-and-gloomers are still with us, of course, ....On the contrary, I'm more bullish than ever on our economy's long-term prospects.</span>
**C) Forecasts are wrong**
**SHERDEN 1998**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William, business consultant, The Fortune Sellers)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today it is the generally perceived poor track record....</span> __with situational bias.__


<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">D) Empirics go neg</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnett 9</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Thomas, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, senior strategic researcher for Naval War College, August 25, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” Aprodex, Asset Protection Index, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx)</span></span>
When the global financial crisis struck roughly a year ago, ... and regional efforts toward free-trade agreements have not slowed.

====Extensions==== 
<span class="Underline">**US economy resilient – only domestic issues affect it** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Seeking Alpha 11** – quoting Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto </span>
<span class="Underline">(Tim Duy, 4/1/11, Something to Chew on: The U.S.'s Economic Resilience, http://seekingalpha.com/article/261277-something-to-chew-on-the-u-s-s-economic-resilience)</span>
__With the economy on “a firmer footing,”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> she said,...t </span>__the primary risks are internal demand and energy shocks, not other external shocks____.__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No impact to economic collapse – empirics </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordon 08 - </span>historian specializing in business and financial history, full-time writer for the last nineteen years, Gordon's articles have been published in, among others, Forbes, Forbes FYI, Worth, The New York Times Book Review, The New York Times's and The Wall Street Journal's Op-Ed pages, and The Washington Post's Book World and Outlook Panics and Politics
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, 10/22/08, Journal of the American enterprise institute, Panics and Politics [[http://www.american.com/archive/2008/october-10-08/panics-and-politics]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will the current financial crisis spur a major political realignment?...not signal a realignment.</span>

===Heg Frontline=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">1-- Primacy is inevitable </span>
**A. Economic capacity**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Steven G. Brooks --AND-- William C. Wohlforth, Associate Professors of Government at Dartmouth College, 09</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">[“Reshaping the World Order,” Foreign Affairs, March/April 2009, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64652/stephen-g-brooks-and-william-c-wohlforth/reshaping-the-world-order]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Now, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the conventional wisdom is ... be in a far stronger position to lead the world than any other state</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

B. Aging crisis
**Haas 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assistant Professor of Political Science at Duquesne University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mark L. “A Geriatric Peace? The Future of U.S. Power in a World of Aging Populations” //International Security//, Vol. 32, No. 1, Summer, p 112-147 (EBSCO)) </span>
__Global population aging will__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">influence ...</span>__s make such an outcome unlikely.6__

**No relationship between US capabilities and peace**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Fettweis 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of national security affairs @ U.S. Naval War College. [Christopher J. Fettweis, “Threat and Anxiety in US Foreign Policy,” Survival, Volume 52,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Issue 2 April 2010 , pages 59 – 82//informaworld]//</span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">One potential explanation for the growth of.... reach the conclusion that world peace and US military expenditure are unrelated.</span>//



//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No impact to the transition – international order accommodates rising powers</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ikenberry ‘8</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(John, The Rise of China and the Future of the West Can the Liberal System Survive?, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Some </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">observers believe that the...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> And if it does, China will rise, but the Western order -- if managed properly -- will live on.</span>//



//**Casuality aversion strategy of the aff kills heg and makes the impact inevitable**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LACQUEMENT</span> 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span> (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Evocations of </span><span class="DebateUnderline">the </span>casualty-aversion .... its allies may require escalation to achieve success<span class="DebateUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">50</span>//


//Heg doesn’t solve internal wars- this outweighs//
//Barbara <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conry</span>, Foreign Policy analyst at CATO, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span>//
//[“U.S. Global Leadership,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-267.html]//
//Other <span style="font-size: 10pt;">proponents of U.S</span>. political and ....<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> if the United States blunders into it, as it did in Somalia and Bosnia. [59]</span>//


//Their authors exaggerate claims to justify hegemony. Prefer our impacts.//
//Christopher <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne</span>, Chair in National Security at the School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span>//
//[“From Preponderance to Offshore Balancing,” International Security, Summer 1997]//
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The security </span>interdependence <span style="font-size: 10pt;">nexus results ....</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">—both to allies and potential adversaries—that it will uphold its security obligations in core areas</span>.//



//**No credible threats**//
//**__Bandow ‘10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Military Spending—For What?”, Japan Times, 1/19, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20100119db.html]</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>**__The U__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>**__dominates the globe militarily. ....__****__most sophisticated military — one well able to defend Americans.__**//

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No bandwagoning</span>//
//**McIntyre 11**—Professor at Depaul University, specializing in Critical IR Theory, Social Movements, International Political Economy//
//(Michael, “<span style="color: black;">When Hegemony Fails: British Imperialism in India and Brazil from the Nineteenth to the Early Twentieth Centuries”, </span>Western Political Science Association, April 21, 2011, http://depaul.academia.edu/MichaelMcIntyre/Papers/535440/When_Hegemony_Fails)//AW

Even when the ruling alliances of colonial .... space for public contestation that they never gave back.


**Forward Deployed troops not key to peace**
Christopher <span class="Cite">Preble</span> (director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute) August <span class="Cite">2010</span> “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/
Most in Washington still embraces the notion that .... States while the schlubs in fly-over country pick up the tab.

===__Solar Flares Frontline (DSCOVR)__=== 
1-- No killer solar flare coming
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Neil 8</span> (Ian O’Neill (PhD) is founder and editor of Astroengine. He is a space producer for Discovery News. O’Neill is a British solar physics doctor with nearly a decade of physics study and research experience, Masters and PhD from University of Wales, Aberystwyth, “2012: No Killer Solar Flare,” June 21, 2008, http://www.universetoday.com/14645/2012-no-killer-solar-flare///DN)
Can Our Sun Produce a Killer Flare? <span class="DebateUnderline">T.... but nothing more extreme than that</span>.
2-- Status quo NASA monitoring solves risk of blackouts
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Phillips 6/22</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- science writer and editor at NASA (Dr. Tony, 2011, "Getting ready for the next big solar storm," http://www.physorg.com/news/2011-06-ready-big-solar-storm.html, RG)</span>
"<span class="DebateUnderline">We can</span>now track the progress of solar storms in ....of<span class="DebateUnderline"> regional blackouts</span>," says Pulkkinen.
3-- Blackouts inevitable – aging equipment, growth, cyber threats
Loder<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 2/28/</span>08 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– staff writer [Asjylyn, “Still in dark over blackout,” St. Petersburg Times, 2/28/08, Business p. 1D]</span>

Floridians have power, but not answers to ....__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> technology built largely 25 to 30 years ago</span>__," Byres said.

4-- Tech exists now to mitigate the impact of solar flares
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CTV '10</span> -- staff writer at Canada am (2011, "No need to fear strong solar flares in 2013: NASA," http://www.ctv.ca/CTVNews/CanadaAM/20100923/solar-flares-100923/, RG)
A solar physicist at NASA says there's no reason .... <span class="DebateUnderline">better predict them and enable us to mitigate them,</span>" he said.

5-- No risk of nuclear meltdowns
Beller, 4<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Nevada, Las Vegas</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Denis E, “Atomic Time Machines: Back to the Nuclear Future,” 24 J. Land Resources & Envtl. L. 41, 2004)</span>

__No caveats, no explanation,__not from this engineer/scientist... figure includes the Chernobyl accident in the Former Soviet Union. 52

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">6-- Economic crisis won’t cause war – empirics go neg</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnett 9</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Thomas, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, senior strategic researcher for Naval War College, August 25, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” Aprodex, Asset Protection Index, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx)</span></span>
When the global financial crisis struck roughly a.... and regional efforts toward free-trade agreements have not slowed.


7-- No meltdown impact -- Wasserman is indicative of global meltdowns during war -- their ev only references a radioactive leak from one US power plant -- radiation is not bad for you at low levels
Schulz ‘7<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Matthais, Der Spiegel, “Nuclear Exaggeration”, 11-22, http://wissen.spiegel.de/wissen/dokument/dokument.html?titel=Is+Atomic+Radiation+as+Dangerous+as+We+Thought%3F&id=54059068&top=SPIEGEL&suchbegriff=Hiroshima&quellen=)</span>
The more recent meltdown at the reactor in __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Chernobyl</span>__in .... Even 20 years ago such behavior would not have made sense.
**No accidental escalation- empirics**
**Quinlan 05**- former senior fellow at the International Institute of Strategic Studies
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sir Michael, “Thinking About Nuclear Weapons,” [[http://www.rusi.org/downloads/assets/WHP41_QUINLAN.pdf]], first published in 1997, reedited in 2005,)</span>

__There have certainly been, in over fifty years since the ....__ __deployments more widespread and alert arrangements more tense.__

===__Resource Wars Frontline (DSCOVR)__=== 
DSCOVR would be out of the military budget, turns foreward deployment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brinton, July 12</span> (Turner Brinton, staff writer for Space News, July 12, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Pair of NOAA Satellite Projects” Space News http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110718-house-panel-denies-funding-for-dscovr-cosmic-2-missions.html
<span class="DebateUnderline">**If funds to refurbish ....**</span> NOAA’s 2012 budget.

**Guns vs. butter- deployment kills solvency**
<span class="Author-Date">Tasini 10</span> (Jonathan Tasini, Executive Director, Labor Research Association, August 13, 2007, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jonathan-tasini/guns-versus-butter-our-re_b_60150.html)
Guns versus butter. It's the classic debate that really t.... What struck me in the lengthy piece were three pie charts.



**NO indo pak war escalation**
**Chari 03**– P.R. Chari is a Research Professor. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"IPCS Nuclear Crisis, Escalation Control, and Deterrence in South Asia” P.R. Chari Working Paper Version 1.0 August 2003 http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/escalation_chari_1.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__the involvement of nuclear ....__ __mistrust and convictions regarding the irrationality of the “Other.”__



**Empirics and studies are conclusive – resource wars don’t happen**
**Salehyan 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Idean Salehyan Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas. “The New Myth About Climate Change Corrupt, tyrannical governments—not changes in the Earth’s climate—will be to blame for the coming resource wars.” By Idean Salehyan | August 14, 2007 http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/13/the_new_myth_about_climate_change</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, aside from a few anecdotes, </span>__...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> resource scarcity and natural disasters. </span>


No risk of great power conflict over Africa.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robert </span>Barrett 05<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, PhD Military & Strategic Studies, U of Calgary, 6/1, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID726162_code327511.pdf?abstractid=726162&mirid=1</span>

Westerners eager to promote democracy must ... especially those conflicts in which the intervening nation has very little interest.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Increased temperature decreases conflict—China proves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NIPCC 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Two Millennia of Environmental-Disaster-Induced Wars in China. 16 November 2010. [[http://nipccreport.org/articles/2010/nov/16nov2010a5.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Zhang //et al//. (2010) write that "climatic .... resulting in fewer social conflicts."</span>

Global warming is incoherent ---- there is no such thing as global temperature
Essex et al in ‘7
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Chris, Prof. Applied Math @ U. Western Ontario, Ross McKitrick, Assistant Prof. Econ @ U. Guelph, and Bjarne Andersen, Prof. Physics @ Niels Bohr Institute @ U. Copenhagen, Journal of Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics, “Does a Global Temperature Exist?” 32, http://www.reference-global.com/doi/pdf/10.1515/JNETDY.2007.001)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ranking a particular type of field average computed over a sequence of times amounts to determining a trend in that average. Here we show that </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">the sign and size of such a trend computed....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a positive or negative trend in one particular average. </span>



Empirical data proves warming is cyclical and not human induced
S. Fred **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer</span>**, Distinguished Research Professor at George Mason, **and** Dennis T. **Avery**, Director of the Center for Global Food Issues at the Hudson Institute, 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07 </span>**(“Unstoppable Global Warming: Every 1,500 Years”, p. 34)
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">The key thing for us all to remember is ....t warming is man-made-or dangerous.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Risk Calculus Frontline</span>
**1. Colonizing is a self-fulfilling prophecy that makes extinction inevitable**
**Williams 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lynda, Physics Instructor, “Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization”, Peace Review, a Journal of Social Justice, [[http://www.scientainment.com/lwilliams_peacereview.pdf]]) RKS</span>

__Life on Earth is more urgently threatened by the...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on solving the problems that create these threats on Earth?</span>

**2. Major threats aren’t imminent – colonization isn’t key to survival.**
**Williams 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lynda, faculty member in physics at Santa Rose Junior College, Peace Review, Jan-Mar, Vol. 22, Issue 1, “Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization,” p. 4-5, ebsco) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to scientific theory, the destruction of Earth is a ....l threats in the near future.</span>

**3. Space is unsustainable for humans – only earth can sustain life**
**Trevors**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J. (Trevors: University of Guelph and Adjunct Professor, a 28 year record of microbiology research, graduate and undergraduate teaching, consulting and editing/editorships has been achieved) </span>**’09**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"># </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Springer Science + Business Media B.V. 2009“The Earth Is the Best Place to Live” – http://www.springerlink.com/content/p68867688844p083/fulltext.pdf</span>

__The Earth is still the best planet to live despite our current....__<span style="color: #131413; font-size: 8pt;">l doable if humans simply redirect efforts from conflicts and wars to international cooperation. </span>

**4. No overpopulation now- empty land and food surplus**
<span class="Cite">McNeil 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Donald G McNeil, Professor of Economics, “Malthus Redux: Is Doomsday Upon Us, Again?”, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/15/world/americas/15iht-15mcneil.13714561.html, 6/15/08]</span>
The whole world has never come close to outpacing...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by people using hoes.</span>
**5. Colonization won’t occur in this millennium at best**
<span class="Cite">Kistler 98 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Walter P.– founder of Kistler Aerospace Corporation, “Humanity’s Future In Space”, July 21, 1998]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4. The Very Long-Range Future of Humanity in </span>__Space ...____to progress towards our destiny.__

**6.** **Doomsday situations will always exist, even though data proves they’re wrong**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">P. </span>**Gosselin**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> received an Associate Degree in Civil Engineering at Vermont Technical College and a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering at the University of Arizona in Tucson, 9/2/</span>**11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, No Tricks Zone, [[http://notrickszone.com/2011/02/09/alarmist-psychology-why-they-need-doomsday-scenarios/]].</span>
__Most skeptics have had a discussion with an alarmist at one...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I’ll let the reader make the call.</span>




==Negative Strategies== 
===Wake Forest=== 
====Round 2 Neg vs. River Hill Critical race theory aff==== 
1NC - Jumbles CP, Heg good K, Shmitt K, Framework
2NC - Framework, Case
1NR - Jumbles CP
2NR - Framework, Case
====Round 4 - USN Space Tourism==== 
1NC - T-its, T - Increase, T - Substantial, Space mil DA, Gender K, Politics (SKFTA) (Clean Tech Impact)
2NC - T substantial, T increase, Space mil, Case
1NR - Politics, Case
2NR -Politics, Weapons DA, Case
====Round 5 - Thomas Johnson DSCOVR==== 
1NC - T substantial, Private actor CP, Politics SKFTA (Free trade impact), Coercion DA, Gender K
2NC - T sub, CP, Case
1NR - Coercion, politics
2NR - CP, Politics

====Octas- Edgemont Satellite Communication==== 

1NC- Topicality ( We define basically every word in the resolution), Private Actor CP, Politics SKFTA (Free Trade Impact), Security, Coercion
2NC- Topicality, Kritik
1NR- Kritik, Case
2NR- Topicality

===St. Mark's=== 
====Round 2 - Caddo Magnet JM - Commons Aff==== 
1NC – F/W & T development, Cut up CP, Neolib good, Halloway K, Holocaust Trivialization K, Heg good
2NC - T Development, Halloway K
1NR – Htriv, Heg good, Neolib Good
2NR –Htriv, Halloway

====Round 4 - Lex CF - Property rights==== 
1NC – No war, T everything, International Property Rights CP, Referendums CP, Politics
2NC – T, Case
1NR – Referendums CP
2NR - CP

====Round 5 - Highland Park - JPSS==== 
1NC - Politics, Virilio K, Privatization CP , Coercion, T human
2NC - CP, Case, Virillio
1NR - Politics
2NR - CP, Politics
====Doubles - Carrollton Sacred Heart VU - SPSSSSS==== 
1NC - Virillio, Politics, Privatization CP, Coercion, Space Mil,Case defense
2NC - Virillio
1NR - Case
2NR - Virillio

===Alpharetta=== 
====Round 1 - Houston County - ASATs==== 
1NC - Space mil, Defense CP, EPA rider DA, T-human, Virillio, Case (Cruise missiles, China MIRV)
2NC - EPA, Case
1NR - Space mil
2NR - Space mil, Case
====Round 3 - Grady - SUSTAN (space marines)==== 
1NC – Virillio, Sea basing CP, Environmental Impact Assesment CP , Payroll tax cuts, Space weaponization DA
2NC – Seabasing, Space mil DA, Case
1NR – CP, Politics
2NR – CP, Politics

===Michigan RR=== 
====Round 2 - Westminster HX - WASS==== 
1NC - Thuman, Pos Peace, EPA rider DA, EIS CP, space mil DA, Coercion DA, space Debris DA
2NC - EPA, Case
1NR - EIS
2NR - EPA Case

====Round 4 - Lexington MH - ORS==== 
1NC - CP (privatize to develop but not deploy, declare no retaliatiation, no actual retaliation), Payroll tax Cuts politics DA, Virillio K, Space mil, Case (ICBM turn, Goldilocks Econ turn, Deterrence bad turns)
2NC - CP, Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - CP(only the no retaliation planks), politics , case

====Round 6 - Pace KS - SBSS==== 
1NC - T human, EIS CP, Virillio, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case (Nuke primacy bad)
2NC - Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - Presumption

===Michigan=== 
====Round 2 - Edina PL - ASATs==== 
1NC – Space mil, Payroll tax, T- commercial, Defense CP, Case (MIRVs, Cruise missiles, Ragged Russian retal)
2NC – Space mil, Case
1NR – Payroll, Case
2NR – Space mil, payroll tax, case

====Round 4 - Gulliver MZ - Debris==== 
1NC - Pos peace, Reg neg CP, Politics, T – every word in the rez, Space mil
2NC- CP, Case
1NR – Politics
2NR – CP

====**Round 6- Edina SS - Asteroids**==== 
1NC - Privatization CP, Politics, EOS t/o DA, Virillio, T substantial
2NC - T, CP
1NR - EOS DA
2NR - T

====**Doubles - Pinecrest - ORS**==== 
1NC – Space mil, Politics, Reg neg, Tax/Deterrence CP
2NC – Reg neg, Case
1NR – Politics
2NR – Reg neg, politics

====**Octas - Cathedral Prep - James Webb space telescope**==== 
1NC – Virillio, Reg Neg, Payroll Tax DA, T- Human
2NC – Reg neg, Case
1NR – Politics
2NR – Reg neg, politics


===Glenbrooks=== 
====Round 2 - Portage North - SPS==== 
**1NC –** Politics, Heidegger, Reg Neg, T - human
**2NC –** K, Case
**1NR –**Politics, T
**2NR –** Politics, Case

====Round 4 - Shawnee East - SBMD==== 
**1NC –** Reg neg, Heidegger, T – commercial, Payroll tax cuts, Case (Nuclear preemption, cruise missiles)
**2NC –** CP, Case
**1NR –** Politics
**2Nr –** CP politics

====Round 5 - Mountain Brook MS - SPS==== 
1NC- Heidegger, Prizes CP, Payroll Tax cuts, T- human, Case (Pan K, Enviro apocalypse K)
2NC – Heidegger, Case
1NR – Case Kritiks
2NR – Heidegger, Case Ks

====Round 7 - Whitney Young - LIDAR==== 
**1NC –** Positive peace, T- human, Deterrence CP, Payroll Tax cuts, Case (nuke deterrence bad)
**2NC** – Case, K
**1NR –** Case, T
**2NR** – T

====Octas - Hoflo GS - DRAGNETS==== 
1NC - Condition China CP, Politics, Heidegger, Pan
2NC - Heidegger
1NR - Pan, Case
2NR - Heidegger


===MBA=== 
====Round 2 - Brophy Prep - SPS==== 
1NC - Russia oil DA, reg neg, privatization, T-human, Politics (PTC)
2NC - Reg neg, case
1NR - Politics
2NR - Reg neg

====Round 4 - Woodward SS - Nuke Waste==== 
1NC - Hodgepodge K(gusterson, security, baudrillard, terror talk, frontier mindset), Politics (PTC), T- mesosphere, prolif good
2NC - Prolif good, Case
1NR - politics
2NR - Prolif good, case

====Round 5 - Pace ES - ORS==== 
1NC- Heidegger, Deterrence CP, Politics, Bomber t/o DA, T- human
2NC – K, Case
1NR – Bomber DA
2NR – K



===**Lexington**=== 
====Round 1 - Bronx Law MG - Dark Matter==== 
1NC - Framework, Agonism, Heg Good K, Halloway K, Fuck K
2NC - Halloway, Fuck K
1NR - Heg Good / Agonism
2NR - Fuck K, Halloway

====Round 4 - Cathedral Prep BH - Mars Colonization==== 
1NC - T should, Politics, Privatization, Heidegger, Ozone / Debris, Case (space col bad)
2NC - CP, Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - CP politics

====Round 5 - Westminster LS - Asteroids==== 
1NC - EOS t/o, politics, Privatization, Calculation K, T - Substantial
2NC - EOS t/o, Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - Politics, Case

====Doubles - Brooklyn Tech - Metaphor==== 
1NC - Framework, Cut up, Cap K
2NC - Framework
1NR - Cut up
2NR - Framework

====Finals - UC lab GR - Asteroids==== 
1NC - T human, T mesosphere, EOS t/o DA, Privatize, Security K, Asteroid deflection bad, politics
2NC - Asteroid deflection DA, Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - Politics

===Emory=== 
====Round 1 - Maine East - VSE==== 
1NC - Privatize CP, Politics, T-Mesosphere, Ozone DA, Russia Oil DA
2NC - Colonization Bad, Russia, CP, Case
1NR - Politics, Ozone
2NR - CP, politics

====Round 4 - GBN BS - Debris==== 
1NC - Psychoanalysis & Disease security K , Politics, DOD t/o DA, Private sector CP, T – everything
2NC - CP, Asteroid deflection bad, Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - CP, Politics

====Round 6 - Greenhill NK - Space Guard==== 
1NC - Reg neg, Psychoanalysis, Politics, T - Mesosphere
2NC - K, Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - K

===UGA=== 
====Round 1 - Westminster PP - Constellation==== 
1NC - Reg neg,Psychoanalysis, Politics, Ozone, Heg bad
2NC - Psycho, Heg bad, Case
1NR - Politics, Case
2NR - Psycho

====Round 3 - Johns Creek SJ - Planetary Defense==== 
1NC - Politics, Psychoanalasys, Sagan DA, T- Substantial, Space mil
2NC - Deflection DA, Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - Politics, Case

====Round 5 - Johns Creek FD - Planetary Defense==== 
1NC - Politics, Psychoanalasys , Sagan DA, T - Substantial, Space mil
2NC - K
1NR - T, Case
2NR - K

====Octas - Johns Creek AS - Planetary Defense==== 
1NC - Politics, Psychoanalasis, Sagan, T-substantial, space mil
2NC - T, Case
1NR - Politics
2NR - T

====Quarters - Westminster HX - Pheonix==== 
1NC - Politics, Psycho, T-human, Sagan DA, Radio Astronomy, Tax incentives, Space col bad,
2NC - Case, Sagan DA, Space Col bad
1NR - Politics
2NR - Case, Sagan DA, Space col bad



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]