[[toc]]
If you have cite requests during the tournament, email my boi John at [[mailto:john.holland00@gmail.com|john.holland00@gmail.com]] and he'll try to put them up in a coherent manner. Otherwise, we'll just post 1ac's and 2nr strat choices.

=Affirmative= 

==rd 2 Partition Aff vs. GBN PP== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Contention One is Hegemony</span>
Three Internal Links:
First is credibility
Current strategy sends the signal that US will be unconditionally committed which destroys credibility 
Corn 10 - Ph.D. from the University of Paris and is a graduate of the U.S. Naval War College (Dr. Tony, COIN in Absurdistan: Saving the COIN Baby from the Afghan Bathwater (and Vice-Versa), Small Wars Journal, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/journal/docs-temp/479-corn.pdf)

For Robert Blackwill, the solution is a de ….<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> look like the world’s Indispensable Sucker.</span>

Caving to the military on Afghanistan has eviscerated Obama’s international credibility and shows indecision
Bacevich ’10 – Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University, 10-05-2010 (Andrew J., “Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439)

"The President is an elected king," wrote …., however, the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">king is likely to find himself</span> soon thereafter <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">seeking new employment</span>.

That independently causes multiple scenarios for global war
Bolton ‘9 - Senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute [John R. Bolton (Former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations) “The danger of Obama's dithering,” Los Angeles Times, October 18, 2009, pg. http://articles.latimes.com/2009/oct/18/opinion/oe-bolton18]

Weakness in American foreign policy in one region often invites … the direction of the next 39, we still have a long way to fall.

Second is Dollar Decline
Current US presence risks dollar decline – empirically proven by Vietnam
Corn ‘9 – Ph.D. from the University of Paris and is a graduate of the U.S. Naval War College, currently on leave from the US State Department (Tony, “Toward a Kilcullen-Biden Plan? Bounding Counterinsurgency in Afghanistan,” Small Wars Journal, 10/21, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/toward-a-kilcullenbiden-plan/

Just do the math - with 63,000 troops on the ground…. diplomatic settlement as advocated by Vice-President Joe Biden.

COIN specifically is costly – Soviets prove it will end us
Lajeunesse ‘10 – Associate at the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy at Georgetown University, former Special Agent and Middle East/North Africa Area Specialist with the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, M.A. in Middle Eastern Studies from the Naval Postgraduate School and J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, 08-17-2010 (Gabriel, “Towards a Fiscally and Politically Solvent Counterterrorism Strategy,” The Huffington Post, August 17th, Available Online at http://www.huffingtonpost.com/gabriel-lajeunesse/towards-a-fiscally-and-po_b_685127.html?view=print)

While such a conclusion has merit, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">COIN operations are</span> tremendously <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">costly</span>…<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">afford such costly long term commitments.</span>

Decline causes the US to become uncooperative and desperate. Hegemonic wars will ensue 
Goldstein ‘7 - Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania [Avery Goldstein, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August 2007, pages 639 – 682]

Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly …the period prior to the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650

3. Overstretch 
Southern strategy means future deployments to cut back for losses
Dorronsoro ‘10 (November, Gilles Dorronsoro - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, “Afghanistan at the Breaking Point,” November 2010) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_break_point.pdf

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The southern strategy presumed </span>swift <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">success</span>es, which would help establish … and human burden induced by the presence of more than <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">100,000 U.S. troops</span>.

Current COIN strategy causes overstretch and collapses deterrence
Pyne ‘9 - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)

In Iraq and Afghanistan, Bush and now Obama have demonstrated that they have had … creation of an effective central government, something that Afghanistan has never had.

Perception of American strength is critical to prevent aggressive nuclearization strategies that result in first-strikes and nuclear war
Talent and Hall, March 2010 (Jim - distinguished fellow in government relations at the Heritage Foundation, and Heath, Sowing the Wind, p. http://www.freedomsolutions.org/2010/03/sowing-the-wind-the-decay-of-american-power-and-its-consequences/)

There is a reason that regimes like Iran and North Korea go to the time and ….the umbrella of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">American power</span> without having to develop their own deterrent capability.[42]

Hegemonic decline triggers positional competition and war – bargaining becomes impossible 
Wohlforth ‘9 – Professor of government @ Dartmouth College (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/world_politics/v061/61.1.wohlforth.html#back|William C.]]</span>, January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, Pg. 33-35)

Second, I question the dominant view that status quo evaluations are relatively independent …directly contradict their material interest in security and/or prosperity.

Collapse of hegemony causes global nuclear war
Müller ‘8 (Harold, Director – Peace Research Institute and Professor of International Relations – Frankfurt University, “The Future of Nuclear Weapons in an Interdependent World”, Washington Quarterly, Spring, Lexis)

A power transition creates dangerous times. [[#12dc57378ac2f94c_fnr9]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=bdd54216370e15df8fa26bde1111b584&docnum=8&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAz&_md5=f6b9321740b257920320c7efec57cfcf&focBudTerms=china%20or%20chinese%2521%20or%20beijing%20w/35%20aggress%2521%20or%20conflict%2521%20or%20war%20or%20creeping%20occupation%20w/20%20south%20china%20sea&focBudSel=all#fnote9|9]]</span> Most <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">challenges to a hegemon in </span>…an essential contribution to this management.

Partition of Afghanistan solves 
Blackwill 11 ROBERT D. BLACKWILL is Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. He served as U.S. Ambassador to India in 2001-3 and as Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Planning in 2003-4 (Robert D. Blackwill, January-February 2011, “Plan B in Afghanistan: Why a De Facto Partition is the Least Bad Option”, Foreign Affairs, lexis)
Current U.S. policy toward Afghanistan involves spending scores of billions of dollars …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Obama administration to concentrate intensively on other important issues.</span>

<span style="line-height: 21px;">Contention Two is Pakistan</span>

Losing the war now – can’t tackle safe havens or fix the Afghan government 
Cohen 4/7 Former Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation, B.A. in International Relations from American University and M.A. in International Relations from Columbia University, served in the Department of State as chief speechwriter for U.S. Representative to the United Nations Bill Richardson and Undersecretary of State Stuart Eizenstat, currently serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Michael Cohen, April 7, 2011, “Further Confirmation that our Strategy in Afghanistan Isn’t Working”, Democracy Arsenal, http://www.democracyarsenal.org/2011/04/further-confirmation.html)

One of the key elements about US policy in Afghanistan that nearly all sides seem to … they aren't) before we shift our strategy to what actually is possible?

Current COIN strategy in the Pashtun region alienates the Pakistan military and risks Pakistan collapse – leads to loose nukes
Lieven 2/23 Professor in the War Studies department of King’s College London and a senior fellow of the New America Foundation in Washington. 
(Anatol Lieven, Febuary 23, 2011, “A Mutiny Grows in Punjab”, The National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/article/mutiny-grows-punjab-4889)

On the other hand, if the U.S. military is already in a war, it does not like to be seen to lose it. …. U.S. strategy in the region risks producing.

But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep filled with …administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.
That triggers attacks on Israel and US
David ‘9 - Professor of political science @ Johns Hopkins University. [Steven R. David, “The Nightmare Scenario,” Foreign Policy, Posted May 2009, pg. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=4932&page=0]

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">A </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Pakistan </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">plunged </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">in</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">chaos</span> raises the threat that its nuclear weapons might … the hands of religious terrorists is a nightmare no American wants to face.

Israel strike causes nuclear winter 
Morgan ‘9 - Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea (Dennis Ray Morgan, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect)

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ‘‘…<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> a savage toll</span> up<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">on the</span> environment and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">fragile ecosphere</span> as well.

Even a failed terrorist attack causes extinction 
Sid-Ahmed ‘4, political analyst (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)

What would be the consequences of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a nuclear attack by terrorists</span>? <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">… infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span>

Plan leads to reconciliation and regional cooperation
Downing 10 - political/military analyst (Brian, July 29, Asia Times, “Plan B for Afghanistan,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/LG29Df02.html)

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Controlling the south and east would greatly alter the Taliban's </span>… bases to Pashtun parts of Afghanistan or even south of the frontier.

Withdrawing to 40,000 troops allows the US to defend the northern and western portions of Afghanistan and maintain air power and special ops to prevent the Taliban’s rise – it amounts to a de-facto partition that prevents total US withdrawal
Blackwill, 10 –International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, senior fellow at the RAND Corporation, and US Ambassador to India (Robert, "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan", Politico, 7/7,
http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html)

What then? If the COIN strategy cannot produce the desired results in the next 12 months…<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> weapons program, nuclear terrorism and the future of Iraq.</span>

Other strategies are net worse for the US in Afghanistan 
Blackwill 11 ROBERT D. BLACKWILL is Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. He served as U.S. Ambassador to India in 2001-3 and as Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Planning in 2003-4 (Robert D. Blackwill, January-February 2011, “Plan B in Afghanistan: Why a De Facto Partition is the Least Bad Option”, Foreign Affairs, lexis)
Accepting a de facto partition of Afghanistan has enough downsides that …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">do is help stabilize the situation by making clear which side holds what territory.</span>

<span style="line-height: 21px;">Thus the Plan:</span>
The United States federal government should substantially reduce its presence engaged in the counterinsurgency mission in the Southern and Eastern Pashtun regions of Afghanistan. 

=Negative= 

==Specific Strats== 
===<span class="Underline">rd 1 vs. greenhill bu</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">t – bases</span>
<span class="Underline">japan rearm disad</span>
<span class="Underline">politics – skfta (2NR)</span>
<span class="Underline">dod cost estimtates cp</span>
<span class="Underline">japan kick-out cp (2NR)</span>