[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 



=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1AC – Property Rights</span>= 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan: The United States federal government should create a limited first possession system of property rights on Mars.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 16px;">ADV 1 Space Colonization</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Limited first possession is the most efficient method of allocating property rights</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Collins, Lecturer City Law School London, ’08</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> (David, 14 B.U. J. SCI. & TECH. L. 201, EFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ON THE PLANET MARS, Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law, Summer, twm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">VII. Bounded First Possession by Landfall</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">As an alternative to ... ownership of land on Mars, would be necessary. n83</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Property rights is key to encourage the first colonizers.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Collins, Lecturer City Law School London, ’08</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> (David, 14 B.U. J. SCI. & TECH. L. 201, EFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ON THE PLANET MARS, Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law, Summer, twm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">The recognition of bounded land c... rise in population of an area. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Space colonization increases chances for long term human survival</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Baum, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Rock Ethics Institute, Pennsylvania State University,</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> **’09** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">(Seth D. Baum Space PolicyVolume 25, Issue 2, Pages 75-80; “</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Cost–benefit analysis of space exploration: Some ethical considerations”; 3 April 2009; http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964609000198 [Schaaf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">While </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">space colonization ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"> of long-term human survival.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Matheny, Research Associate at Oxford, 7 (Jason, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //Risk Analysis//, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">As for astronomical risks</span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">, to ... about the survival of the species."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The plan is the most cost-effective way to reduce existential risk—when you evaluate impacts you have to include the value of all FUTURE generations of people.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Matheny, Research Associate at Oxford, 7 (Jason, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //Risk Analysis//, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">6. COST EFFECTIVENESS AND... optimistic and believes humanity will certainly die out in 1,000 years, asteroid defense would be cost effective at $4,000 per life-year. </span>
==<span style="text-decoration: none;">ADV 2 Modeling</span>== 

**US domestic space law key to setting precedents that everyone else will use**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Porras ’06</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Daniel, 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143, “The ‘Common Heritage’ of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”, twm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Jurisprudence is now ...adopted or rejected.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Now is the critical time for private property rights – countries are looking to the US as a model. </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Jacobs 9</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;"> (Harvey, received his graduate degrees from Cornell University (Ph.D, 1984). He has won awards and recognition for his research and teaching from Cornell University (in 1980 and 1982), joint appointment as Professor in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning and the Gaylord Nelson Institute for Environmental Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, “u.s. private property rights in international perspective,” Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, pg online)</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">This is a period of history in w...political system</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (de Soto 2000; Thallam 2008).</span>

=Negative= 

==CP - Privitazation== 




==<span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">DA - Politics</span>==