[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Contention One: Silence </span>**== 
**//<span style="font-size: 13px;">The fossil fuel industry has shut down debate over energy policy. The energy companies control the government line on energy. Alternative views and discourse have been marginalized and silenced. </span>//**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Scheer 06’ (Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 133 [[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151)phol]]</span>

**Under the veil of economic rationality, the fossil fuel industry has systematically erased renewable energy from becoming a genuine alternative.**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Scheer 06’ (Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 141-142 [[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151)phol]]</span>

**Government policy on energy has been corrupted to its core. Alternative energy is impossible within the existing power structure.**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Justmeans 10’ (Justmeans, green business news website, Solar Feeds, Hermann Scheer: A German Solar Hero, Saturday, 23 October, 2010, http://www.solarfeeds.com/justmeans/14821-hermann-scheer-a-german-solar-hero)phol</span>

**Appeals to a “gradual transition” play into the hands of the status quo energy system assuring that solar comes too late and fails to challenge existing structures of domination.**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Cromwell 2k (David Cromwell is an oceanographer and writer, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 17px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ru.org/10-1cromwell.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 17px;">, Local Energy, Local Democracy: Are economics and ecology on a collision course?, 2000, Renaissance Universal and Renaissance Magazine)phol</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">This is more than a question of energy. The status quo concentration of power in the hands of energy companies and corrupt government makes authoritarianism inevitable. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Scheer 06’(Hermann Scheer, Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy, London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 283-234, [[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=294)phol]]</span>

**The ultimate conclusion of the fossil fuel dominated market state is the elimination of civic resistance and democratic institutions. Values become impossible to articulate in this world.**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Scheer 06’(Hermann Scheer, Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy, London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. P 285, [[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=294)phol]]</span>

**The fossil fuel economy makes authoritarian violence inevitable. It will end up in total war and ultimately extinction.**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Shepard 09’ (John, Graduated from Azusa Pacific University, California (BA degree, major: Philosophy, minor: Psychology) and received his Masters of Divinity Degree from Gordon Conwell Theological Seminary, Boston, Massachusetts. “Oil Wars” http://www.northforest.org/SocialCulturalTopics/OilWars.html, December 2009 [TL])</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">We are heading in the wrong direction, if we continue our dependence on oil it will run out by 2020. Giving our extinction scenario a nine year timeframe. The Insider 2011. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">(It’s a major respected newspaper that documents the best evidence available from the most credible sources, and investigates the most important issues around the world. http://www.theinsider.org/news/article.asp?id=0423 October 17, 2011)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Authoritarianism empirically leads to mass genocide</span>**
R.J. **Rummel** <span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">11/23/**02** author of genocide [[http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/GENOCIDE.ENCY.HTM]]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Authoritarianist government only deprive individuals of rights causing dehumanization that only strengthens the system</span>**<span style="font-size: 21px;">.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif';">David **Ghanim** 20**09** senior lecturer and researcher in middle eastern stories, school of global studies, university of gothenburg, sweden</span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px; text-decoration: none;">Dehumanization is the root cause of nuclear war and genocide—when humans are reduced to means or objects, any atrocity becomes justified, outweighing all impacts.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Berube, 1997</span>**
(Berube, David. Professor. English. University of South Carolina. “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side.” 1997. [[http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]].) <span style="font-size: 17px;">his is more than a struggle for our civic voice. The fight for a solar transition is the fight for planetary survival. Gould 02’ (Between Barbarism and a Solar Transition, Jay M. Gould, served on the Science Advisory Board of the Environmental Protection Agency during the Carter administration, Monthly review 2002, Volume 54, Issue 02 June, [[http://monthlyreview.org/2002/06/01/between-barbarism-and-a-solar-transition)phol]]</span>




==Plan Text== 
Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of space exploration utilizing space based solar power.



==<span style="font-size: 17px;">Contention Two: Speaking </span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Our current energy ideology kills critical thinking and relegates the mind to one-dimensional thought. Rethinking our stance on energy is key to dissolving these restrictions. We can’t talk about energy without confronting these issues.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Scheer 06’ (Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 131-132 [[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151)phol]]</span>

**In round discourse about energy is a prior question to their impacts because rethinking renewable energy would change everything about the way we think economically and politically about the world**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Scheer 06’ (Hermann Scheer is a Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, The post-fossil future, Le Monde diplomatique, June 2006, [[http://www.hermannscheer.de/en/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=133&Itemid=11)phol]] </span>

**Fossil fuel production supports authoritarist regimes that cause mass violence, while solar power decreases the government role, gives people more freedom, and is key to dissolving the violence caused by the oil companies.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Global Issues 11’</span><span style="font-size: 17px;">(“Energy Security: reliance on foreign sources of energy and geopolitics” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 17px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://financialflattery.com/?tag=authoritarian-regimes]]</span><span style="font-size: 17px;"> May 15 2011 [TL])</span>

**A new approach to energy includes more than just switching technologies---policy changes that fail to include a holistic approach will only serve to entrench existing systems of domination.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bookchin </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">93’ (Murray Bookchin , What is social ecology?. In: M.E. Zimmerman, J.B. Callicott, G. Sessions, K.J. Warren and J. Clark, Editors, Environmental Philosophy, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ (1993))</span>

Activists have an important role in the transition to a solar economy. The 1AC is a speech act that holds the government accountable.

<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 17px;">Lewis 02’ (Sandra, Information and Action Addressing Public Policy for an Ecologically Sustainable WorldVolume 2, Number 2) “The Dark Side Of Our Dependence On Fossil Fuels: Time For Quakers To Take A Stand, March 2002, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 17px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.quakerearthcare.org/Publications/QuakerEcoBulletin/QEBArchive/QEB-PDF/QEB2-2-energy.pdf]]</span>

**Renewable energy is fundamental to the preservation of human values. Failure to speak out against the status quo makes you complicit in a system that is killing us all.**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">WREA 05’ (World Renewable Energy Assembly (WREA), November 26th to 30th, 2005, Bonn/Germany, 3rd World Renewable Energy Forum, The Human Right to Renewable Energy</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 17px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hermannscheer.de/en/images/stories/pdf/WREA_2005_final_communique_en.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 17px;">, World Renewable Energy Assembly (WREA) 2005)phol</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Role of the ballot if for individuals to unmask political violence and break down power through individual action and discourse</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Cale Crammer, University of California, Riverside.Democracy, Domination and the Role of GhandianNonviolent Conflict APSA 2011 Annual Meeting Paperhttp://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1900673</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]