[[toc]]
=Disads= 
=== === 
===Weaponization DA=== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley 11** (Senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

[As is well understood, the space policies… Many devils may lurk in these details.]

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (President of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">[</span>Perhaps of even greater concern is that several… likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.]


**The impact is accidental nuclear war – risks extinction**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell et al 1</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>


[A buildup of space weapons might begin… most destructive military conflict ever seen.]


=== === 
===[[#x-Disads-American Jobs Act DA]]American Jobs Act DA=== 

**[UNIQUENESS]**

**[LINK]**

**Political capital is key to AJA passage**
**CBS 9/12** (“Obama sends jobs bill to Congress, urges "no games, no politics, no delays," 2011, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20104820-503544.html]])

President Obama is sending this $447 billion...robust political efforts to build support for the bill.

**AJA is key to propel U.S. innovation, R&D, and competitiveness – Other countries are passing us**
**Philippidis 9/16** (Alex, senior news editor at Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News, “As Obama Pitches Jobs Bill, Biobusinesses Link Growth to R&D Incentives and Early-Stage Funding,” 2011, [[http://www.genengnews.com/analysis-and-insight/as-obama-pitches-jobs-bill-biobusinesses-link-growth-to-r-d-incentives-and-early-stage-funding/77899459/]])

Barbara Gebhardt, president and CEO of life...anything resembling a biotech hiring boom.

**And, U.S. rate of innovation, technological development and R&D must keep pace to develop products, technology, and solutions to solve collapse of the global biosphere**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Barker 2k**(Brent, manager of corporate communications, having earlier served as manager of strategic and executive communications and for 12 years as the Journal's editor-in-chief, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability”, EPRI Journal, June 22)</span>
Sustainability has been the subject of much discussion...That future begins now.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]