[[toc]]
=DISADS= 
== == 
==POLITICS== 
=== === 
===American Jobs Act DA=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Jobs Bill top of the docket and passing now—assumes GOP opposition</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Voa 9/16</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Voa News **“**Obama Continues Push On Jobs Bill” 9-16-11 <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://blogs.voanews.com/breaking-news/2011/09/16/obama-continues-push-on-jobs-bill/]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">U.S. President Barack AND at about nine percent. </span>

**[AFF SPECIFIC LINK]**

**Political capital is key to AJA passage**
**CBS 9/12** (“Obama sends jobs bill to Congress, urges "no games, no politics, no delays," 2011, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20104820-503544.html]])

President Obama is sending this $447 billion...robust political efforts to build support for the bill.

**AJA is key to propel U.S. innovation, R&D, and competitiveness – Other countries are passing us**
**Philippidis 9/16** (Alex, senior news editor at Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News, “As Obama Pitches Jobs Bill, Biobusinesses Link Growth to R&D Incentives and Early-Stage Funding,” 2011, [[http://www.genengnews.com/analysis-and-insight/as-obama-pitches-jobs-bill-biobusinesses-link-growth-to-r-d-incentives-and-early-stage-funding/77899459/]])

Barbara Gebhardt, president and CEO of life...anything resembling a biotech hiring boom.

**And, U.S. rate of innovation, technological development and R&D must keep pace to develop products, technology, and solutions to solve collapse of the global biosphere**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Barker 2k**(Brent, manager of corporate communications, having earlier served as manager of strategic and executive communications and for 12 years as the Journal's editor-in-chief, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability”, EPRI Journal, June 22)</span>
Sustainability has been the subject of much discussion...That future begins now.
=== === 
===Elections DA=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Obama Expected To Win Election but Continued Spending Means Loss </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">**Ambinder 11** (Marc Ambinder, White House correspondent for National Journal, “Why Obama Could Lose”, The National Journal, Proquest, 4/28/11)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">Conventional wisdom has AND could be off. </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">[AFF SPECIFIC LINK]</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">Millennials Do Not See NASA as Worthwhile</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">Berger 8</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">(Eric Berger is the Houston Chronicle's space, weather and science reporter. “NASA chief addresses the Gen-Y problem. Does he care?”Mach 11, 2008 [[http://blog.chron.com/sciguy/2008/03/nasa-chief-addresses-the-gen-y-problem-does-he-care/.%29|http://blog.chron.com/sciguy/2008/03/nasa-chief-addresses-the-gen-y-problem-does-he-care/.)]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;"> As we’ve previously AND be either or?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Millennials Key to Election</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Hais and Winograd 12-20 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">(Michael and Morley, Fellows with NDN and the New Policy Institute, “Real Story Behind the Millennial Headlines on Obama” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-hais-and-morley-winograd/youth-vote-obama-2012_b_1155663.html%2012/20/11|http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-hais-and-morley-winograd/youth-vote-obama-2012_b_1155663.html 12/20/11]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">The[[@http://www.iop.harvard.edu/var/ezp_site/storage/fckeditor/file/fall_poll_11_M_press_release.pdf| headline ]]of a AND on January 20, 2013.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">GOP president means the end of EPA – claims it hurts the economy </span>**
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The Columbus Dispatch, 11.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Renee Schoof, 7-17-11, “GOP Attacking Environmental Regulations,” [[http://www.dispatch.com/live/content/national_world/stories/2011/07/17/gop-attacking-environmental-regulations.html?sid=101]])</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; vertical-align: baseline;">Republicans in the House AND a lot of sense."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">EPA regulates dangerous greenhouse gases - key to solve global warming</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Broder 9 (John M., journalist for the New York Times, “E.P.A. Clears Way for Greenhouse Gas Rules,” The New York Times, 4/17/09, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/18/science/earth/18endanger.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">WASHINGTON — </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">The AND </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">tougher emissions standards. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Warming leads to extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Sify India News 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">(“Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?” June 20, 2010. [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]].)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Scientists have sounded AND according to a GCI release.</span>
=== === 
===<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> Payroll Tax Cuts DA</span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">PTC will pass now– Republicans and Democrats collaborating on details </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">Morning Call 2/3 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Lehigh Valley’s daily online newspaper; “Payroll tax cut duration set by Senate panel,” 2/3/12, [[http://www.mcall.com/news/nationworld/pennsylvania/mc-pa-payroll-tax-cut-agreement-20120203,0,4128499.story]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">WASHINGTON — Payroll tax cuts AND on that track."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[AFF SPECIFIC LINK]</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">And PC is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Bloomberg 2/1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (“Boehner Says He’s Confident Congress Will Extend Payroll Tax-Cut,” 2012, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-02-01/boehner-says-he-s-confident-congress-will-extend-payroll-tax-cut.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">House Speaker John AND negotiated,” McConnell said</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Expiring of the PTC collapses the economy---destroys consumer spending, growth, and consumer confidence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Hill 12/28</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Patrice, Writer @ the Washington Post, "Economists fear withdrawal symptoms if payroll-tax cut vanishes," 2011, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/dec/28/economists-fear-withdrawal-symptoms-if-payroll-tax/]], EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">It was the tax cut AND</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> over the long term.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">US economic collapse causes nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Cook 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Richard C., Writer, consultant, and retired federal analyst in U.S. Treasury Dept.; “It’s Official: The Crash of the U.S. Economy has begun,” Global Research, June 14. Accessed: <span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index/php?context=va&aid=5964]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">Times of economic AND a few nukes?</span>






== == 
==Weaponization DA== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley 11** – senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

As is well understood, the space policies… Many devils may lurk in these details.

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**Hitchens o8** – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?” Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])

Perhaps of even greater concern is that several… likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.

**The impact is accidental nuclear war – risks extinction.**
**Mitchell et. al. 01** – (Dr. Gordon, Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])

A buildup of space weapons might begin… most destructive military conflict ever seen.
== == 
==Russian Oil DA== 

**Russia is embracing a slow transition towards renewables but for the rest of the decade, its economy will be centered around oil.**
**Reuters 6/8**(Jessica Bachman is a writer for Reuters and the Moscow Times, Reuters is a trusted global news source based out of London, 6-8-11, “Russia’s Oil Lobby Thwarts Green Ambitions,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/06/08/us-russia-renewables-idUSTRE7571AO20110608]]</span>)

Russia aims to more than quadruple...so I don't understand this logic," Kulakov said.

**Plan causes a fast transition to alternative energy killing the oil industry**
**Reynolds No Date** [Dr. Douglas B. Reynolds – Staff writer for oilcrisis.com and PhD in energy economics – “Soviet Economic Decline: Did an Oil Crisis Cause the Transition in the Soviet Union?” -<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.oilcrisis.com/reynolds/sovietdecline.htm]]</span>]

In the final years of the Soviet Empire...This created an oil crisis.

**Oil decline leads to Russian econ collapse.**
**Gold 8**(Donald H., staff writer @ Investor’s Business Daily, Investor's Business Daily “Globalization Fuels Brave New World” 6-20-8,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.investors.com/NewsAndAnalysis/Article/463838/200902200212/Globalization-Fuels-Brave-New-World.aspx]]</span>)

After a storybook revolution -- from...have not made any reforms." Karasin said.

**That causes a Russian civil war that goes nuclear, leads to lose Russian nukes, and environmental degradation throughout Eurasia**
**David 99**(Steven David, Political Scientist in foreign affairs, January/February 1999, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/19990101faessay955/steven-r-david/saving-america-from-the-coming-civil-wars.html]]</span>)

If internal war does strike Russia, economic...that would follow a Russian civil war.
== == 
==Ozone DA== 

**The ozone is recovering now, but can still be damaged**
**SN 11** (Science News, “Ozone hole on the mend” [[http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/74280/title/Ozone_hole_on_the_mend]] //Donnie)//

<span class="Underline">Scientists</span> may have <span class="Underline">spotted</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND </span>than scientists have ever seen (SN: 4/9/11, p. 12).

**Each launch harms the ozone layer**
**Selby ’11** – (Darin – Internally quoting Dr. Helen Calodicott and The UTNE Reader – Darin is the AVP Sales & Marketing, Kansas City Southern Railway – Coal and Petroleum Coke Business Unit. Mr. Selby holds a master of business administration and a bachelor of science in business management from Emporia State University. He was recently named by Emporia State University Business School as an Outstanding Alumni – Float to Space – May 17th [[http://darinselby.1hwy.com/floattospace.html]])

An old Turkish proverb says that, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND </span><span class="underline0">fraction of the cost of rocketry</span>.

**Extinction—impact’s linear**
**Smith and Daniel 99** (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306]] Donnie)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Underline">The ozone layer is</span> critical to <span style="font-size: 10pt;"> AND </span><span class="Underline">aquatic ecosystems also may occur (</span>Martin [1998], WMO [1998]).</span>
== == 
==Radio Astronomy DA== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">[AFF SPECIFIC LINK]</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">Radio astronomy solves NEO tracking</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">Irvine et al 5</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;"> ([edited by William M. Irvine, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Astronomy at University of Massachusetts, Amherst, **//AND//** Esperanza Carrasco, PhD, researcher at INAOE, **//AND//** Itziar Aretaga, astronomer, astrophysicist, researcher at INAOE], 2005, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">“Planetary Science and Astrobiology,” </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"><span style="color: #0000ff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/chapter6.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">However, such AND to monitor the echo).</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">Specifically, Aricebo’s radio astronomy is uniquely key to solve asteroids</span>**</span>
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Fortuno 07</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> (Louis Fortuno, governor of Puerto Rico, October 3rd, 2007, “HR 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"><span style="color: #0000ff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Arecibo Observatory is AND by near-Earth objects.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Asteroid impact destroys all life on Earth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Huggett 90</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> (Richard J., Senior Lecturer in Geography at the University of Manchester, England. He studied geography at University College London, both as an undergraduate and postgraduate, “The Bombardment of Earth,” Geography, Vol. 75, No. 2, pp. 114-127, pp. 114-127, April 1990, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/40571806]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">The damage done to AND led to a global warming (Clube and Napier, 1982).</span>

=== === 
====**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> Link-EOS</span>**==== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">New NGSO Satellites Kill Radio Astronomy</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">OECD 04</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;"> (O</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">rganization for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, members include Michael Goddard (Chair), Spectrum Policy Director UK Radiocommunications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Paul A. Vanden Bout, Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch (retired), Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, January 2004, “OECD Global Science Forum: Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"><span style="color: #0000ff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">The science of radio AND allocated to radio astronomy.</span>
== == 
==<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">JWST DA</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">JWST is secure in the status quo but new space priorities would trade off</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Plait 11/21</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> (Phil, formerly worked at the physics and astronomy department at Sonoma State University, received his Ph.D. in astronomy from the University of Virginia, first worked with the COBE satellite and then with the STIS on the Hubble Space Telescope for five years, “NASA’s budget: JWST saved, but not much good news,” 2011, http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/badastronomy/2011/11/21/nasas-budget-jwst-saved-but-not-much-good-news/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">A few days ago AND years as well.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[AFF SPECIFIC LINK]</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">JWST is key to spark space colonization.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Harrold 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> (staff writer for the Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” July 18)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">With less AND it's okay to look."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Colonization is key to avoid the infinite possibilities of extinction on Earth</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Stephen Hawking, pretty much the smartest man ever, British theoretical physicist and profession of math, University of Cambridge, 10-16-01, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nutri.com/space/]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;">"The human race is </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">AND</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none;"> to preserve it."</span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]