[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Kickapoo - 10/14-15== 
Same as [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Marshfield (MO) - Avery Day & Koty Jones|Marshfield DJ]]

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Ohio Valley - Space Advertising Aff</span>== 
**Contention 1 – Inherency and we’re topical – Current international law isn’t effectively handling advertising to space tourist. This is an example of how international law fails at governing development of outer space.**
**Balsamello 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When You Wish upon a Falling Billboard: Advertising in an Age of Space Tourism FRANK J. BALSAMELLO Georgetown Law, J.D. 2010 [[http://www.georgetownlawjournal.com/issues/pdf/98-6/Balsamello.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">This potential militarization of ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> resolve such issues.</span>__**


**<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Plan: The United States federal government, specifically congress, should amend the Commercial Space Launch Act to include in section 70104, as an activity requiring a license, any of the following’s participation in launch services: individual citizens of the United States, entities organized or existing under United States law, or entities or organizations under foreign law if the controlling interest is held by an individual citizen of the United States or an entity organized or existing under United States law. Funding, enforcement, and administration will be through necessary means.</span>**




**Contention 2 – Our affirmative rules**

**A – The Nationality Principle**
**First, the nationality principle is violated by the lack of the plan. It is mandatory for the United States to pass domestic legislation to regulate space advertising. Only congressional action solves.**
**Balsamello 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When You Wish upon a Falling Billboard: Advertising in an Age of Space Tourism FRANK J. BALSAMELLO Georgetown Law, J.D. 2010 [[http://www.georgetownlawjournal.com/issues/pdf/98-6/Balsamello.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instead,</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> **__the nationality principle, ...__**</span> **__afforded by U.S. law.218__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">The nationality principle is the foundational principle of jurisdiction in outer space.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Menthe 98</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michigan Telecommunications and Technology Law Review 1997 / 1998 4 Mich. Telecomm. Tech. L. Rev. 69</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LENGTH: 16101 words ARTICLE: JURISDICTION IN CYBERSPACE: A THEORY OF INTERNATIONAL SPACES NAME: Darrel C. Menthe * BIO:* Darrel C. Menthe, J.D. Stanford "96, is a litigation associate in the Los Angeles office of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">The fundamental document in ...</span>__** **__on the nationality principle.__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">And upholding the is key to checking against exploitation as a part of globalization.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">Tuerkheimer 02</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Houston Law Review Summer, 2002 39 Hous. L. Rev. 307 **LENGTH:** 35086 wordsARTICLE: GLOBALIZATION OF U.S. LAW ENFORCEMENT: DOES THE CONSTITUTION COME ALONG? **NAME:** Frank Tuerkheimer* **BIO:** * Habush-Bascom Professor of Law, University of Wisconsin.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">It is generally understood ...render such a law constitutional</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">B – The Precautionary Principle</span>**
**First, the precautionary principle should be applied to outer space through the process of regulations on advertising. Also, your agent counterplans don’t make sense – only unilateral domestic legislation is able to effectively balance the benefits and risks of space advertising necessary for the precautionary principle.**
**Balsamello 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When You Wish upon a Falling Billboard: Advertising in an Age of Space Tourism FRANK J. BALSAMELLO Georgetown Law, J.D. 2010 [[http://www.georgetownlawjournal.com/issues/pdf/98-6/Balsamello.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, scholars assert that...</span> **__structure than currently exists.__**


**And the application of the precautionary principle to outer space is the appropriate global ethic. This is necessary to protect future generations from risks greater than the negative’s disads.**
**Tan 00**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Yale Journal of International Law Winter, 2000 25 Yale J. Int'l L. 145 LENGTH: 23692 words</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ARTICLE: Towards a New Regime for the Protection of Outer Space as the "Province of All Mankind" NAME: David Tan + BIO: + LL.M., Harvard Law School; LL.B. (Hons), B.Com., University of Melbourne. Former Tutor in Law, Trinity College, University of Melbourne. </span>
**__Current literature has concentrated ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> control and freedom of space exploration.</span>


**C – Framework for rules**

**Determining the outcome of a particular action is impossible. The best method of utilitarian calculation is through adherence to particular rules that guide decisions.**
**Alexander 85**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Larry Alexander, Professor of Law University of Chicago, Ethics, 1985 P.317</span>
**__In a world as complex ....__**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1983, pp. 452-53).</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">And rule consequentialism is the only construct that makes sense in the context of governmental policy debate. All other forms of calculation are based on individual assessment, not a collective.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Mulgan 11</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">The Future of Utilitarianism </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Tim Mulgan Professor of Moral and Political Philosophy, University of St Andrews, United Kingdom. **The Tocqueville Review/La revue Tocqueville Volume 32, Number 1, 2011**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">E-ISSN: 1918-6649 Print ISSN: 0730-479X Project Muse</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moderate consequentialists seek ... offers this succinct formulation.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">Additionally, rule based consequentialism solves the epistemological problems of any criticism. While their kritik may make sense in theory, the practice of putting their argument into practice fails. Only evaluating through a rules based system ultimately produces the best results.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">Schauer 08</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frederick Schauer is David and Mary Harrison Distinguished Professor of Law at the University of Virginia. Formerly Frank Stanton Professor of the First Amendment at Harvard University and Professor of Law at the University of Michigan </span>**<span style="color: #463f31; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Episteme: A Journal of Social Epistemology </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Defense of Rule-Based Evidence Law – and Epistemology Too<span style="color: #153f89;">1 </span></span>****<span style="color: #463f31; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Volume 5, Issue 3, 2008</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">E-ISSN: 1750-0117 Print ISSN: 1742-3600 project muse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Here again both the r...</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;"> – could have as much of a place in epistemic inquiry as they have traditionally had in common law legal systems.</span>


**D – The plan effectively follows the rules. The plan is enough. It would produce the appropriate amount of regulation on space advertising.**
**Balsamello 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When You Wish upon a Falling Billboard: Advertising in an Age of Space Tourism FRANK J. BALSAMELLO Georgetown Law, J.D. 2010 [[http://www.georgetownlawjournal.com/issues/pdf/98-6/Balsamello.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The jurisdictional gaps discussed above...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> jurisdictional loophole in the CSLA.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;"><span style="font-size: 1.4em;">**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Liberty / Heritage Hall - Solar Propulsion Aff</span>**</span></span>== 
Same as <span style="background-color: initial;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Marshfield (MO) - Jamie Atkison & Avery Day|Marshfield AD]]</span>




=Negative= 
==Propaganda K== 
**A-** **Link – the affirmative’s attempt to explore space will serve as a mask for newer more overt forms of propaganda.**
**American Foreign Relations 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Propaganda - Propaganda, diplomacy, and international public opinion </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Read more: </span><span style="color: #003399; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.americanforeignrelations.com/O-W/Propaganda-Propaganda-diplomacy-and-international-public-opinion.html#ixzz1XmRv7OXb|Propaganda, diplomacy, and international public opinion - Propaganda]][[http://www.americanforeignrelations.com/O-W/Propaganda-Propaganda-diplomacy-and-international-public-opinion.html#ixzz1XmRv7OXb|http://www.americanforeignrelations.com/O-W/Propaganda-Propaganda-diplomacy-and-international-public-opinion.html#ixzz1XmRv7OXb]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Concerns about</span> **__the maintenance ...__** **__more propaganda, not less.__**

**B-** **This is an epistemic question. The affirmative’s evidence doesn’t even make sense and is only used to further propagandized ideas.**
**Cunningham 05**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Responding To Propaganda: An Ethical Enterprise Stanley B.Cunningham1 University of Windsor http://www.sfu.ca/cmns/faculty/laba_m/425/05-spring/documents/RespondingtoPropaganda.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thanks to the work ...</span> **__an unethical state of affairs__**.
**C-** **The alternative is to vote Negative to critique the propaganda by radically opposing it. Failure to do so guarantees propaganda’s use in genocides.**
**Steuter and Wills** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">from Mount Allison University, Canada</span>**09**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Erin Steuter and Deborah Wills Discourses of Dehumanization: Enemy Construction and Canadian Media Complicity in the Framing of the War on Terror 2009, Global Media Journal -- Canadian Edition Volume 2, Issue 2, pp. 7-24 12</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">The categories identified by ...</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;"> from the Eastern Zone.</span>__**

==**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">Politics - Payroll - New Trier 10/22</span>__**== 
**A – Uniquness – Payroll tax rollbacks will be pushed now but won’t pass.**
**Chaddock 10/21**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'Stimulus 2.0'? Senate rejects bid to revive parts of Obama jobs bill. </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senate Republicans and moderate Democrats blocked the first attempt by to pass a scaled-down version of the $447 billion Obama jobs bill, calling it a 'bailout.'</span>**<span style="color: #535353; font-size: 8pt;">By </span><span style="color: #1d4878; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/About/Contact-Us-Feedback|Gail Russell Chaddock]]</span><span style="color: #535353; font-size: 8pt;">, //Staff writer// / October 21, 2011 http://www.csmonitor.com/Business/2011/1021/Stimulus-2.0-Senate-rejects-bid-to-revive-parts-of-Obama-jobs-bill</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">In a rebuff to <span style="color: #1d4878;">...</span></span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;"> people back to work.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">B - Increasing space exploration leads to more political capital.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">Swilley 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">– Major (1/28/2011, Scott, “Space Power: A Theory for Sustaining US Security Through the Information Age”, School of Advanced Military Studies United States Army Command and General Staff College, </span><span style="color: #0000f6; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA545154&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA545154&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf__]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">The political influences of ...</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;"> edge of the possible.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">C- </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Obama’s political capital is key to passing parts of the job bill.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Real Clear Politics 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">Senators Durbin and Graham on "State of the Union" **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">By</span>**</span> [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/authors/?author=State+of+the+Union&id=17986|**State of the Union**]]<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;"> http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2011/09/18/senators_durbin_and_graham_on_state_of_the_union_111389.html</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">The president unveils how ...</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> much for being here</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">D- </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">Extension of the payroll tax cut will widen the rich poor gap by shifting liabilities from the banks to tax payers.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">Lynch 10/13</span>**
//<span style="color: #535353; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">David J. Lynch </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">Growing Income Gap May Leave U.S. More Vulnerable to Crises</span>
<span style="color: #535353; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">October 13, 2011, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2011-10-13/growing-income-gap-may-leave-u-s-more-vulnerable-to-crises.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">For many consumers, easy ... back where we started.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">E- A widening rich-poor gap causes protectionism.</span>**
**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">CSM 07</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Yawning rich-poor gap could hobble economy Column: Income equality may lead to protectionism and slow down trade, among other things. http://www.csmonitor.com/2007/0730/p15s02-wmgn.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finance ministers of "Euroland"....</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">can't be engineered overnight.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">F- Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Morgan 09</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">The Devil's Advocate: Protectionism breeds poverty, division, nuclear war By By Daniel Morgan, Sept 24, Columnist http://www.lsureveille.com/opinion/the-devil-s-advocate-protectionism-breeds-poverty-division-nuclear-war-1.1909328</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">To support foreign aid ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;"> another good — bomb shelters.</span>__**