[[toc]]
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Heternormativity K**</span>= 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The politics of space are profoundly gendered – the discourse of exploration, development, and colonization reproduce heteronormative hierarchies and ensure the continuation of patriarchy in space.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Griffin 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">This chapter is about sex, AND </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">as a heterosexualized, masculinized realm</span>//<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reinforcement of the heteronormative power structure creates systematic oppression through violent resistance towards the LGBT community.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Luthra</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">04</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Aman. Department of Geography at Syracuse University. “Interrupting Heteronormativity” (Un)Straightening the Syracuse University Landscape Page 45-54. [[http://www.syr.edu/gradschool/pdf/resourcebooksvideos/Heteronormativity.pdf]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Three years later, in October AND </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">particular social relations within the community.</span>__



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt: Reject the Aff’s oppressive discourse creating a safe space for discursive resistance to Heteronormativity. We must break the silence.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Knox 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Sher Knox. Exploring Heterosexual Hegemony in Health and Social Services: Critical Que(e)ries. 2006. University of Victoria, Victoria, Canada.[[http://www.uvic.ca/hsd/assets/docs/publications/variegations/vol-3/knox.pdf]])</span>



__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One of the effects of “AND institutional practices that silence and isolate.</span>__



=**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heidegger K</span>**= 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Any attempt to explore space is a misguided attempt to conquer universal truth. Seeking this point of objectivity will only replicate the Aff’s harms and destroy Being.</span>
<span class="DefaultParagraphFont1">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Arendt 61</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> [Hannah, American political philosopher, student of Heidegger, “The Conquest of Space and the Stature of Man” The New Atlantis Fall 2007]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">It is at this point, it seems to me, that the humanist’s concern ..... by all standards we know of, but have been destroyed.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span class="cite"> </span>
</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The alternative is to do nothing because only doing nothing allows for Being to reveal itself</span>
<span class="DefaultParagraphFont1">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Harman in 09</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Graham, Professor of Philosophy @ American University in Cairo, “Cambridge Journal of Economics”, 2009, Vol. 34(1), __Technology, objects and things in Heidegger__ p.17-25) JM</span>
Another word in Heidegger's constellation of technology terms ..... without degenerating into a mere wish to know’<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Heidegger, 1994, pp. 71–2)</span>.