<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Inherency</span>__**</span></span>


**Contention 1 --- __Inherency__**

**__<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">NASA Needs to Do Something to save Planet from Extinction </span>__**
**<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Lu 12/7/11 </span>****<span style="font-family: Arial;"><http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-205_162-57338884/ex-astronaut-we-need-to-mobilize-against-killer-rocks/></span>**
<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Over the past ...... the evolution of the solar system.</span> 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Planetary Defense is an “Orphan” ---- the USFG must act</span>
**Friend 11**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(The New Yorker “Vermin of the Sky; Who Will Keep The Planet Safe From Asteroids?”, 2-28, Lexis) </span>February 28, 2011; Tad Friend <span style="color: black;">Tad Friend is a graduate of </span>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shipley_School|The Shipley School]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_College|Harvard College]]; Pg. 22 Vol. 87 No. 2] LMC

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That was a long time .....</span> **__an orphan__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the Plan: The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Increase Its Exploration and or Development of Space Beyond the Earth’s Mesosphere by placing an appropriate infrared telescope into a Venus-like orbit to survey near earth objects.</span>



<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 14pt; text-decoration: none;">Observation 2—Solvency</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Unambiguous US leadership is essential on planetary defense—otherwise there is increased risk of global destruction</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dinerman 2009</span> (Taylor, journalist for the Space Review “The new politics of planetary defense,” The Space Review, 7-20, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1]])

While __t__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">he </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US ......for a disaster.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Early detection allows use of Kinetic impactors, and the earlier detection occurs, the less likely any nuclear devices would be required </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">N</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ational</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> R</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">esearch</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> C</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ouncil </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>
[ “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” Chapter 7 Mitigation] LMC
Finding: Kinetic impactors are adequate to prevent impacts on Earth by moderate-sized NEOs<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(many hundreds of meters to 1 kilometer in diameter) </span>with decades of advance warning. The concept has been demonstrated in space, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">but the result is sensitive to the properties of the NEO and requires further study</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>**
Nuclear explosives .... <span style="font-size: 7pt;"> generation and cratering.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Post Plan, NASA has the ability to solve for Planetary Defense</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA Advisory Council in 2010</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [“</span>Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6,http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf] LMC
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA has developed..... future impact.</span>





<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Deflection Advantage</span>__**</span></span>

**Advantage 1 --- __Deflection__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only space-based detection enables deflection—modeling and studies prove the plan is key to global survival </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">American Institute of Physics in 2010</span>
[ Robert Arentz, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, [[http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]]] LMC

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The key ....</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> for future work</span>

===<span class="Underline">New Survey Proves the Earth is at risk from 70 Earth-killers and 15,000 Mid-Sized Asteroids </span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**DUNPHY**</span> **11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[MARK 400-Metre Asteroid Flyby Due In Early November -Oct 01, 2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.irishweatheronline.com/news/space/asteroids/400-metre-asteroid-flyby-due-in-early-november/32083.html]</span>
<span class="Underline">**The situation is .....** **left to find**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**International Study says asteroids caused extinction 65 million years ago**
**Science Daily 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Science Daily, “Asteroid Killed off the Dinosaurs, Says International Scienticic Panel,” March 4, 2010, [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2010/03/100304142242.htm]])</span>
**__The__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Cretaceous-.....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a matter of </span>**__days__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Impact Framing</span>__**</span></span>

**Observation 3 --- Impact Framing**

**It’s __try-or-die__ --- comet or asteroid impact is __inevitable__ and causes extinction**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Professor of Physics – University of Memphis, Impact: The Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few ....</span> **__our fate__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The impact is __extinction__ --- //unprecedented magnitude// and //aperiodic strikes// shatter traditional considerations of “timeframe” and mean we should treat NEO threats as __imminent__**
**Brownfield 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roger, Gaishiled Project, “A Million Miles a Day”, Presentation at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth From Asteroids, 2-26, [[http://www.aiaa.org/ccontent.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&g]] ID=17092)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once upon a .... attendant fear. </span>

===Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises --- only they cause //any type of extinction//=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Chapman 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have argued [59] that </span>impacts must be....<span style="font-size: 8pt;">cannot avoid having left traces in the fossil record.</span>

**Even a small asteroid impact in the ocean devastates the ozone**
**The Press Trust of India 10** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Asteroid strike in oceans can destroy ozone layer: study lexis-nexis] LMC</span>
An asteroid splashdown ....<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the "hole" ceases to be a hole, the researchers said.</span>


**Loss of the Ozone leaves us defenseless from UV rays which destroy ocean biodiversity and causes even greater loss of Ozone**
**EPA 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (January 1/13/2011, “Health and Environmental Effects of Ozone Layer Depletion”, [[http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/effects/index.html]] TC, EA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Connection Between </span>**__Ozone Layer Depletion__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> .... which they are useful outdoors. </span>

**Collapse of ocean ecosystems ensures extinction of all life**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Davidson 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist (Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51, EA]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">But surely the Athenians..... oceans and just twelve on land. </span>


===Our evidence is comparative --- nuclear war, environmental destruction, terrorism and economic collapse are all dwarfed by an asteroid impact=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Steel 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Joule Physics Laboratory, University of Salford (October 24, Duncan, “ Neo Impact Hazard: the Cancer Metaphor ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf pg. 93)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Cancer Metaphor: ....</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">or halting a hurricane in its path.</span>

===Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.=== 
Nick<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Bostrom</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 2011</span> Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move ....</span>**__<span class="Underline" style="font-size: 10pt;"> direct benefit of such an action</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[13]</span>


===Catastrophic impacts pale in comparison to existential ones — their impacts are recoverable while ours are game over=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>**Bostrom 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Program on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2009 (“The Future of Humanity,” //Geopolitics, History and International Relations//, Volume 9, Issue 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library, Reprinted Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/papers/future.pdf, Accessed 07-06-2011, p. 11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Extinction risks constitute ....</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, a small misstep for mankind.</span>


<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Impact Framing- Nuclear </span>__**</span></span>


**Nuclear war is survivable and nuclear winter isn’t real**
**Nyquist 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these correspondents ...</span>**__(if any) fallout__** **__casualties__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**Belief in nuclear extinction is only media fearmongering**
**Martin 82** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(k) Media. The </span>**__media__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tend to </span>**__promote__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> .....over the form and content of the media.</span>


**Even the worst possible nuclear war would leave 90% of the population unhurt**
**Martin 82** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To summarize the above points....</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> is highly misleading.[14]</span>

**Nuclear Taboo is too strong to overcome - no country has the motivation**
<span class="Underline">**Perkovich 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(George Perkovich, International Convention on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, May, 2009, “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear Free World,” __[[http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich%20Deterrence.pdf|http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich Deterrence.pdf]]__)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The reality </span><span class="Underline">**today**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is that </span><span class="Underline">**the taboo against**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> .... has not committed aggression against Taiwan first.</span>

**Nuclear Taboo can’t be overcome and major war is obsolete - empirics**
<span class="Underline">**Perkovich 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(George Perkovich, International Convention on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, May, 2009, “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear Free World,” __[[http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich%20Deterrence.pdf|http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich Deterrence.pdf]]__)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The underlying difficulty, ....that was </span><span class="Underline">**a political taboo**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>