[[toc]]
=EOS Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
===Greenhill=== 

====<span style="font-family: Arial;">Plan </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should establish a sustained comprehensive space-based Earth observation mission line.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. space agencies were well on their way to establishing a robust Earth Observation system but cascading funding cuts create data gaps that threaten the vitality of the entire system.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">David Biello, associate editor, environment and energy, Scientific American, NPR, Ira Flatow, NPR reporter, 8/26/2011, “NOAA Warns Of Gap In Future Forecasting Abilities,” http://www.npr.org/2011/08/26/139972671/noaa-warns-of-gap-in-future-forecasting-abilities //vkoneru//</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial;">IRA FLATOW, host: It's been a ....</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial;">change that are</span>//, perhaps,// <span style="font-family: Arial;">politically sensitive.</span>//

====<span style="font-family: Arial;">Environment</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 1 is the Environment</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Overwhelming scientific consensus shows climate change is an existential risk, no matter the cause—doing nothing guarantees extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dr. Feng Hsu, Senior Vice President, Systems Engineering & Risk Management, Space Energy Group, "Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap," ONLINE JOURNAL OF SPACE COMMUNICATION n. 16, Winter 2010, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html, accessed 4-8-11.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">The evidence of global warming is alarming. ....consumption), I believe the choice is clear.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scientific consensus is that warming is inevitable—feedback cycles lock it in for the next 1000 years</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ph.D. in Climotology University of California, Berkeley, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP), 8/31/2010, “Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases,” PNAS vol. 107, no. 43, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">http://www.pnas.org/content/107/43/18354.full.pdf+html</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, ....This paper focuses on emissions over a century.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Adaptation strategies are key to survival—the plan solves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space, EARTH SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS FROM SPACE: NATIONAL IMPERATIVES FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND, National Academy of Sciences, 2007, p. 258-259.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">The growing emphasis on regional and higher-....Failure to obtain that knowledge carries high risks.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Mitigation strategies are inevitable, but NASA capabilities will make or break them for the next century. Success is critical to US environmental leadership.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">NASA Aeronautics Support Team (NAST), “NASA’s Role in the 21st Century,” White Paper, Fall 2008, p. 8-9.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">2) Monitoring and predicting climate change and ....our civilization for the remainder of the century8.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Environmental leadership checks extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Ashok Khosla, IUCN President, International Union for Conservation of Nature, “A new President for the United States: We have a dream” 27 January 2009 http://www.iucn.org/knowledge/news/opinion/?2595/new-President-for-the-United-States-We-have-a-dream</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">A rejuvenated America, with a renewed purpose....industries, construction, agriculture and transport systems.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 1 is Mass Migrations</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The consequences of warming are locked-in – climate induced mass migrations are inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Kara K. Moberg, Student Researcher @ Climate Legacy Initiative – Vermont Law School, J.D. Candidate, The University of Iowa College of Law, March, 2009, “Extending Refugee Definitions to Cover Environmentally Displaced Persons Displaces Necessary Protection ,” 94 Iowa L. Rev. 1107, lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">It is clear that climate change and environmental ....2100, causing further depletion of our environment.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Sudden onset migration increasingly likely – it risks resource wars which are highly likely to escalate</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Bahati Ntama Jacques, Policy Analyst @ Africa Faith and Social Justice Network, Originally published in the Jan-Feb edition of Around Africa, 2/9/2010, “Climate Change: What About the Displaced?,” http://afjn.org/focus-campaigns/other/other-continental-issues/82-general/792-climate-change-what-about-the-displaced.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Already, as a result of climate change....the violence will end up in armed conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Environmental stress is now the main cause of conflict – massive migration flows is highly likely to cause war – adaptation is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Sumudu Atapattu, Associate Director, Global Legal Studies Center, University of Wisconsin Law School, Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Law, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, Fall, 2008, “Global Climate Change: Can Human Rights (and Human Beings) Survive this Onslaught?,” Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law and Policy, 20 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 35, lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">While environmental stress has rarely been the sole ....essential task to reduce the risks of conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Bangladesh is uniquely vulnerable—instability causes migrations to India</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Paul Smith, associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, Fall 2007, “Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf</span>vkoneru
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Simultaneously, however, Bangladesh suffers from state ....and stimulate tensions and conflict with neighboring states.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">That causes border conflicts with India</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Michael Werz, Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress where his work as member of the National Security Team focuses on the nexus of climate change, migration, and security and emerging democracies, especially Turkey, Mexico, and Brazil, adjunct professor at Georgetown University's BMW Center for German and European Studies, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund where his work focused on transatlantic foreign policy and the European Union, held appointments as a public policy scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C., and as a John F. Kennedy Memorial Fellow at Harvard's Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies, and Kari Manlove, Working Group Manager at Clinton Global Initiative, Senior Policy Associate at Clean Economy Network, Research Associate for the Energy Opportunity team, where she does research and writes on global energy poverty alleviation and a range of issues related to the international climate negotiations, 12/8/2009, “Climate Change on the Move,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/12/on_the_move.html</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Within the next few decades India’s roleas ....from greater autonomy within India to complete independence.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">This conflict escalates—more data is key to effective response</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Washington Post, Malathi Nayak, graduate student in Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism, 1/10/2011, “Climate-induced mayhem likely to start in Bangladesh,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/05/AR2011020500183.html </span>vkoneru
<span style="font-family: Arial;">RAJENDRAPUR, Bangladesh — Nowhere is the potential ....adequately addressed given the existing missions and capabilities."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Failure to adapt leads to global unrest escalating to nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Peter Schwartz, Global Business Network, and Doug Randall, “An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security” October, 2003, http://www.climate.org/PDF/clim_change_scenario.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">The United States and Australia are likely to ....faced with new challenges that today seem unimaginable.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Remote sensing solves EVERY internal link to mass migrations—increased data is key to accurate models and effective policy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Mary D. Dysart, DAFC, AIR WAR COLLEGE, AIR UNIVERSITY, 2/16/2011, “REMOTE SENSING AND MASS MIGRATION POLICY DEVELOPMENT,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?rs=publishedsearch&ModuleID=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&Action=downloadpaper&ObjectID=0d6a76f8-cd94-4fda-a1de-cee1ac3e4c9e</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Many indicators that mass migration is imminent or ....large regions measured by satellite-based instruments.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 2 is the Arctic</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Massive ecological shifts caused by warming make great power conflict in the Arctic inevitable by 2030</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Jennifer Jeffers, associate in Morrison & Foerster LLP, Land Use and Environmental Law Practice Group, J.D. from UC Berkeley, MS from Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management at Berkeley, Ellis J. Harmon Prize for legal writing in environmental law and policy, Prosser Prize for scholastic excellence in Ocean Law and Policy, 2010, “Climate Change and the Arctic: Adapting to Changes in Fisheries Stocks and Governance Regimes,” Ecology Law Quarterly, lexis </span> vkoneru
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> Rising atmospheric temperatures, warming sea water....are increasingly asserting claims over the region. n8</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scientific uncertainty about climate effects on fish populations is the key internal link</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Jennifer Jeffers, associate in Morrison & Foerster LLP, Land Use and Environmental Law Practice Group, J.D. from UC Berkeley, MS from Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management at Berkeley, Ellis J. Harmon Prize for legal writing in environmental law and policy, Prosser Prize for scholastic excellence in Ocean Law and Policy, 2010, “Climate Change and the Arctic: Adapting to Changes in Fisheries Stocks and Governance Regimes,” Ecology Law Quarterly, lexis //vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Uncertainty plays a major role in attempting to ....determine the final outcome of climate change effects.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Uncertainty makes this conflict escalate to nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Michael Wallace Smith, Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia and Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa. “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue”. March 2010. Canadian Pugwash Group. http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former ....of the Arctic because of climate change.” 6</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is critical to solving virtually every aspect of adapting to massive changes in fish populations and global ocean health</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space, EARTH SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS FROM SPACE: NATIONAL IMPERATIVES FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND, National Academy of Sciences, 2007, p. 193-194.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Ecosystem changes due to climate change and human ....enable scientific progress and improved management of ecosystems.</span>

====Research Base==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 2 is the Research Base</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Current funding shortfalls make it difficult to attract and retain talent necessary to develop new technology—cascading cancellations exacerbate the problem.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space, EARTH SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS FROM SPACE: NATIONAL IMPERATIVES FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND, National Academy of Sciences, 2007, p. xii-xiii.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">At the request of agency sponsors and Congress....by NOAA in the new NPOESS program.10</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Federal action is critical – a decline in monitoring infrastructure destroys university innovation. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">SSB 05 – Space Studies Board (National Academic Press, “Earth Science and Application from Space: Urgent Needs and Opportunities to Serve the Nation,” Earth Observations and Presidential Initiatives, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11281&page=13, AP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Infusion of new technology and ideas into Earth ....D.C., 26 pp., 1995.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Even small NASA cuts have a huge impact on university research – ongoing support is key to retain human capital for earth science</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dr. Timothy L. Killeen, Director, National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science,” Hearing Before the House Science Committee, 4—28—05, p. 38-39.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">In fact, leaving spacecraft and data system ....understanding of the Earth’s atmosphere and its variations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">That’s key to the biotech industry</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Howard H. Garrison et. Al, Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, Bethesda, Maryland, USA, Andrea L. Stith, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland, USA, and Susan A. Gerbi, Division of Biology and Medicine, Brown University, 2005, “Foreign postdocs: the changing face of biomedical science in the U.S.” http://www.faseb.org/portals/0/pdfs/opa/Foreign_postdocs.pdf </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Progress in biomedical research depends upon the intellectual ....reaching, negative consequences for our research enterprise.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Massive decline in global yields are inevitable – investment in biotech now is key to prevent billions from starving to death.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Katherine Noyes, staff writer, 2/11/2010, “Biotech Push Needed to Avert Global Food Crisis, Scientists Warn” Tech News World, http://www.technewsworld.com/rsstory/69321.html?wlc=1284092034</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">World leaders must embrace agricultural biotechnology if they ....-- yields will go down, and soon."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. leadership key to global biotech adoption, which prevents global starvation and wars over food supplies</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Richard Lugar, Senator, 2/25/2009, Capitol Hill Press Releases, “Lugar Calls for Deeper Understanding of Food Shortage”, lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Finally, the agricultural policies of both developed ....in the areas of energy and scientific cooperation.</span>

====Solvency==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 is Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Properly funded, NASA drives the intellectual fabric of the nation and is the only agency in the world that can coordinate all the benefits of Earth Observation research.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dr. Timothy L. Killeen, Director, National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science,” Hearing Before the House Science Committee, 4—28—05, p. 65.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">NASA plays a crucial role in the fabric....locally, regionally, and globally as well.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Substantial, stable increases in funding are critical to the effectiveness of earth observation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">James A. Lewis et. Al, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, 2010, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Until this year, America’s civil space policies....Earth observation system has been put in orbit.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The NRC recommendations are intensely qualified, were requested by all the US space agencies, and are critical to a comprehensive observation system that gets the most out of Earth Science.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space, EARTH SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS FROM SPACE: NATIONAL IMPERATIVES FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND, National Academy of Sciences, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">“Understanding the complex, changing planet on ....cost guidelines be enforced for the program participants.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Data is KEY to inform policy-makers and make knowledgeable decisions</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space, EARTH SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS FROM SPACE: NATIONAL IMPERATIVES FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND, National Academy of Sciences, 2007, p. 143-144.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Increasing the societal benefits of Earth science research ....policy makers (NRC, 2001, 2003).</span>

===Grapevine=== 
====Plan==== 

**The United States federal government should establish a comprehensive space-based Earth observation mission line based on the recommendations of the National Research Council’s Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space.**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>**

**Funding was cut for Earth Observation—creates data gaps that threaten the vitality of the entire system**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">David Biello, associate editor, environment and energy, Scientific American, NPR, Ira Flatow, NPR reporter, 8/26/2011, “NOAA Warns Of Gap In Future Forecasting Abilities,” http://www.npr.org/2011/08/26/139972671/noaa-warns-of-gap-in-future-forecasting-abilities vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">IRA FLATOW, host: It's been a ....<span style="font-family: Arial;">change that are</span>, perhaps, <span style="font-family: Arial;">politically sensitive.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">At a minimum, uncertainty creates data continuity problems – revitalization of Earth Observation satellites is necessary to get the most out of collected data. No current satellites can replace specific system failures.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Mark Williamson, space technology consultant, “Knowledge, ,Data and Global Sustainability: The Role of Space-Based Assets,” THREATS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY – ANSWERS BY SPACE, ed. K.Schrog, C.Mathieu & A.Lukaszczyk, 2009, p. 56-57.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Although this is also the case for the ....no long-term plan for data continuity.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial;">Environment</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 1 is the Environment</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Overwhelming scientific consensus shows climate change is an existential risk, no matter the cause—doing nothing guarantees extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dr. Feng Hsu, Senior Vice President, Systems Engineering & Risk Management, Space Energy Group, "Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap," ONLINE JOURNAL OF SPACE COMMUNICATION n. 16, Winter 2010, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html, accessed 4-8-11.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">The evidence of global warming is alarming. ....consumption), I believe the choice is clear.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Warming is inevitable—adaptation strategies are key to survival</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Greenwise, 3/21/2011, “Global Warming Is Inevitable: Should We Prepare To Adapt?,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">http://livinggreenandsavingenergy.com/global-warming-is-inevitable-should-we-prepare-to-adapt.html, gender modified</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">/vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Slowly rising global temperatures have been widely reported ....<span style="font-family: Arial;">inevitable, [hu]mankind must adapt.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Mitigation strategies are inevitable, but NASA capabilities will make or break them for the next century. Success is critical to US environmental leadership.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">NASA Aeronautics Support Team (NAST), “NASA’s Role in the 21st Century,” White Paper, Fall 2008, p. 8-9.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">2) Monitoring and predicting climate change and ....our civilization for the remainder of the century8.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Environmental leadership checks extinction—key to biodiversity, oceans, and soil</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Ashok Khosla, IUCN President, International Union for Conservation of Nature, “A new President for the United States: We have a dream” 27 January 2009 http://www.iucn.org/knowledge/news/opinion/?2595/new-President-for-the-United-States-We-have-a-dream</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">A rejuvenated America, with a renewed purpose....industries, construction, agriculture and transport systems.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 1 is Mass Migrations</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The consequences of warming are locked-in – climate induced mass migrations are inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Kara K. Moberg, Student Researcher @ Climate Legacy Initiative – Vermont Law School, J.D. Candidate, The University of Iowa College of Law, March, 2009, “Extending Refugee Definitions to Cover Environmentally Displaced Persons Displaces Necessary Protection ,” 94 Iowa L. Rev. 1107, lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">It is clear that climate change and environmental ....2100, causing further depletion of our environment.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Sudden onset migration increasingly likely – it risks resource wars which are highly likely to escalate</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Bahati Ntama Jacques, Policy Analyst @ Africa Faith and Social Justice Network, Originally published in the Jan-Feb edition of Around Africa, 2/9/2010, “Climate Change: What About the Displaced?,” http://afjn.org/focus-campaigns/other/other-continental-issues/82-general/792-climate-change-what-about-the-displaced.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Already, as a result of climate change....the violence will end up in armed conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Environmental stress is now the main cause of conflict – massive migration flows is highly likely to cause war – adaptation is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Sumudu Atapattu, Associate Director, Global Legal Studies Center, University of Wisconsin Law School, Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Law, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, Fall, 2008, “Global Climate Change: Can Human Rights (and Human Beings) Survive this Onslaught?,” Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law and Policy, 20 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 35, lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">While environmental stress has rarely been the sole ....essential task to reduce the risks of conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Bangladesh is uniquely vulnerable—instability causes migrations to India</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Paul Smith, associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, Fall 2007, “Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Simultaneously, however, Bangladesh suffers from state ....and stimulate tensions and conflict with neighboring states.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">That causes border conflicts with India</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Michael Werz, Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress where his work as member of the National Security Team focuses on the nexus of climate change, migration, and security and emerging democracies, especially Turkey, Mexico, and Brazil, adjunct professor at Georgetown University's BMW Center for German and European Studies, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund where his work focused on transatlantic foreign policy and the European Union, held appointments as a public policy scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C., and as a John F. Kennedy Memorial Fellow at Harvard's Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies, and Kari Manlove, Working Group Manager at Clinton Global Initiative, Senior Policy Associate at Clean Economy Network, Research Associate for the Energy Opportunity team, where she does research and writes on global energy poverty alleviation and a range of issues related to the international climate negotiations, 12/8/2009, “Climate Change on the Move,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/12/on_the_move.html</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Within the next few decades India’s role as ....from greater autonomy within India to complete independence.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">This conflict escalates—more data is key to effective response</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Washington Post, Malathi Nayak, graduate student in Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism, 1/10/2011, “Climate-induced mayhem likely to start in Bangladesh,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/05/AR2011020500183.html vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">RAJENDRAPUR, Bangladesh — Nowhere is the potential ....adequately addressed given the existing missions and capabilities."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Failure to adapt leads to global unrest escalating to nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Peter Schwartz, Global Business Network, and Doug Randall, “An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security” October, 2003, http://www.climate.org/PDF/clim_change_scenario.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">The United States and Australia are likely to ....faced with new challenges that today seem unimaginable.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Remote sensing solves EVERY internal link to mass migrations—increased data is key to accurate models and effective policy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Mary D. Dysart, DAFC, AIR WAR COLLEGE, AIR UNIVERSITY, 2/16/2011, “REMOTE SENSING AND MASS MIGRATION POLICY DEVELOPMENT,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?rs=publishedsearch&ModuleID=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&Action=downloadpaper&ObjectID=0d6a76f8-cd94-4fda-a1de-cee1ac3e4c9e</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Many indicators that mass migration is imminent or ....large regions measured by satellite-based instruments.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 2 is the Arctic</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Massive ecological shifts caused by warming make great power conflict in the Arctic inevitable by 2030</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Jennifer Jeffers, associate in Morrison & Foerster LLP, Land Use and Environmental Law Practice Group, J.D. from UC Berkeley, MS from Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management at Berkeley, Ellis J. Harmon Prize for legal writing in environmental law and policy, Prosser Prize for scholastic excellence in Ocean Law and Policy, 2010, “Climate Change and the Arctic: Adapting to Changes in Fisheries Stocks and Governance Regimes,” Ecology Law Quarterly, lexis vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> Rising atmospheric temperatures, warming sea water....are increasingly asserting claims over the region. n8</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Scientific uncertainty about climate effects on fish populations is the key internal link</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Jennifer Jeffers, associate in Morrison & Foerster LLP, Land Use and Environmental Law Practice Group, J.D. from UC Berkeley, MS from Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management at Berkeley, Ellis J. Harmon Prize for legal writing in environmental law and policy, Prosser Prize for scholastic excellence in Ocean Law and Policy, 2010, “Climate Change and the Arctic: Adapting to Changes in Fisheries Stocks and Governance Regimes,” Ecology Law Quarterly, lexis </span>vkoneru
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Uncertainty plays a major role in attempting to ....determine the final outcome of climate change effects.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Conflict escalation is likely</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Casey Kazan, writer for the Daily Galaxy, May 28, 2008, “Arctic SuperPowers to Meet in Greenland -Will Global Warming Trigger a WW111?,” The Daily Galaxy, http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2008/05/arctic-superpow.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Will the Arctic be a 21st Century Sarajevo....being accelerated by the impact of global warming.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Uncertainty makes this type of conflict escalate to nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Michael Wallace Smith, Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia and Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa. “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue”. March 2010. Canadian Pugwash Group. http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former ....of the Arctic because of climate change.” 6</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is critical to solving virtually every aspect of adapting to massive changes in fish populations and global ocean health</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space, EARTH SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS FROM SPACE: NATIONAL IMPERATIVES FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND, National Academy of Sciences, 2007, p. 193-194.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Ecosystem changes due to climate change and human ....enable scientific progress and improved management of ecosystems.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial;">Research Base</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 2 is the Research Base</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Current funding shortfalls are a serious problem—makes it difficult to attract and retain talent necessary to develop new technology and cascading cancellations exacerbate the problem. Sacrificing small sensing components risks the effectiveness of the entire system.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Committee on Earth Science and Applications from Space, EARTH SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS FROM SPACE: NATIONAL IMPERATIVES FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND, National Academy of Sciences, 2007, p. xii-xiii.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">At the request of agency sponsors and Congress....by NOAA in the new NPOESS program.10</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">NASA is critical to the earth science research base – budget shortfalls siphon their ability</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dr. Timothy L. Killeen, Director, National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science,” Hearing Before the House Science Committee, 4—28—05, p. 43.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">In closing, I hope that my short ....guide NASA in the coming decade and beyond.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Federal action is critical – a decline in monitoring infrastructure destroys university innovation. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">SSB 05 – Space Studies Board (National Academic Press, “Earth Science and Application from Space: Urgent Needs and Opportunities to Serve the Nation,” Earth Observations and Presidential Initiatives, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11281&page=13]], AP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Infusion of new technology and ideas into Earth ....D.C., 26 pp., 1995.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Even small NASA cuts have a huge impact on university research – ongoing support is key to retain human capital for earth science</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dr. Timothy L. Killeen, Director, National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science,” Hearing Before the House Science Committee, 4—28—05, p. 38-39.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">In fact, leaving spacecraft and data system ....understanding of the Earth’s atmosphere and its variations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">That’s key to the biotech industry</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Howard H. Garrison et. Al, Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, Bethesda, Maryland, USA, Andrea L. Stith, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland, USA, and Susan A. Gerbi, Division of Biology and Medicine, Brown University, 2005, “Foreign postdocs: the changing face of biomedical science in the U.S.” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">http://www.faseb.org/portals/0/pdfs/opa/Foreign_postdocs.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Progress in biomedical research depends upon theintellectual ....reaching, negative consequences for our research enterprise.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Massive decline in global yields are inevitable – investment in biotech now is key to prevent billions from starving to death.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Katherine Noyes, staff writer, 2/11/2010, “Biotech Push Needed to Avert Global Food Crisis, Scientists Warn” Tech News World, [[http://www.technewsworld.com/rsstory/69321.html?wlc=1284092034]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">World leaders must embrace agricultural biotechnology if they ....-- yields will go down, and soon."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Regulations solve their impact turns and ensure breakthroughs expand globally</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Susan J. Martino-Catt, Monsanto Company Member of Plant Physiology Editorial Board, and Eric S. Sachs, Monsanto Company Member of ASPB Education Foundation Board of Directors, 2008, “Editor's Choice Series: The Next Generation of Biotech Crops,” Plant Physiology 147:3-5 (2008), online</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Crop genetic modification using traditional methods has been ....products that are critical to meeting agriculture's challenges.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. leadership key to global biotech adoption, which prevents global starvation and wars over food supplies</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Richard Lugar, Senator, 2/25/2009, Capitol Hill Press Releases, “Lugar Calls for Deeper Understanding of Food Shortage”, lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Finally, the agricultural policies of both developed ....in the areas of energy and scientific cooperation.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial;">Solvency</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 is Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Properly funded, NASA drives the intellectual fabric of the nation and is the only agency in the world that can coordinate all the benefits of Earth Observation research.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dr. Timothy L. Killeen, Director, National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science,” Hearing Before the House Science Committee, 4—28—05, p. 65.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">NASA plays a crucial role in the fabric....locally, regionally, and globally as well.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Substantial, stable increases in funding are critical to the effectiveness of earth observation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">James A. Lewis et. Al, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, 2010, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Until this year, America’s civil space policies....Earth observation system has been put in orbit.</span>

==2AC== 
===Disad=== 
====Militarization==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Science and military satellites are separate and non-integratable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Molly K. Macauley, Resources for the Future, “Earth Observations in a National Space Strategy,” ASTROPOLITICS v. 7, 2010, p. 213.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Classified data, indeed, provide a longer … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">and in reducing the costs of regulatory enforcement</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Spaceplane development now triggers the link</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Cooper ’10 (Charles Cooper, techtalk, 4/22/10, “Unmanned Space Plane Opening Door to Space Weaponization?”, http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-501465_162-20003159-501465.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">After a decade of development work</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">… </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">with the National Priorities Project told the Monitor.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Transparency solves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Garretson 10, Peter Garretson, chief, future science and technology exploration, for the U.S. Air Force. He has studied advanced space and energy concepts for the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Sky’s No Limit”, IDSA, Ebsco</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">An enabling bilateral framework is created to provide … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">others and likely expectation of regulation and assurances.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">US developing space weapons now.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Tim Ross, Social and Religious Affairs Editor, and Holly Watt, 2/2/2011, “WikiLeaks: US vs China in battle of the anti-satellite space weapons,” The Daily Telegraph, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8299491/WikiLeaks-US-vs-China-in-battle-of-the-anti-satellite-space-weapons.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">It was a conference call from the Air … “star wars” programme in the 1980s. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Other countries perceive weaponization now – makes your impacts inevitable.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Trevor Brown, MSc, S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University, Spring 2009, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The problem for the United States is that … .e., the ability to coerce).8</span>

====Politics==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">NRC recommendation shields the link</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Brian D. Dewhurst, Senior Program Associate for the National Academies’ Board on Physics and Astronomy, 3/6/2006, “NASA, astronomers, and the establishment of research priorities,” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/572/1]] vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">This change from science priorities to mission priorities … solar and space physics, and earth sciences.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Votes are compartmentalized</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Matthew Dickinson, professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, 5/26/2009, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">As for Sotomayor, from here the path … of a president’s veto power for the moment.)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Earth sciences legislation bipartisan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Aero News, 10/12/2010, “President Obama Signs The NASA Authorization Act Of 2010,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.aero-news.net/index.cfm?do=main.textpost&id=21601ddc-9640-4d1d-abe2-8549996bfed1</span>vkoneru
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">"Earlier today, President Obama signed</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> into … </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">long-term economic growth and national security.</span>


===Counterplan=== 
====Privitization==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Privatization fails</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Kenneth J. Markowitz, Director of Law and Technology Program, Center for International Environmental Law (CIEL), Esq. President of EarthPace LLC, Spring 2002, “LEGAL CHALLENGES AND MARKET REWARDS TO THE USE AND ACCEPTANCE OF REMOTE SENSING AND DIGITAL INFORMATION AS EVIDENCE,” Duke Environmental Law & Policy Forum, lexis vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Numerous obstacles block the full realization of the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">… </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">of acceptance of satellite data in a courtroom.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Counterplan already failed once</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Kenneth J. Markowitz, Director of Law and Technology Program, Center for International Environmental Law (CIEL), Esq. President of EarthPace LLC, Spring 2002, “LEGAL CHALLENGES AND MARKET REWARDS TO THE USE AND ACCEPTANCE OF REMOTE SENSING AND DIGITAL INFORMATION AS EVIDENCE,” Duke Environmental Law & Policy Forum, lexis </span>vkoneru
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The commercial satellite remote sensing market was initiated … </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">issued only seventeen licenses for private commercial satellites</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">NASA key to open source—key to policy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Financial Times, Global News Wire - Europe Intelligence Wire, Thai News Service, 7/13/2011, “WORLD BANK PARTNERS WITH NASA AND USAID TO BRING STATE-OF-THE-ART REMOTE SENSING TECHNOLOGY TO ARAB COUNTRIES,” lexis //vkoneru</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">NASA supports free and open exchange of its … said Dr. Shahid Habib, of NASA.</span>

===Kritik=== 



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]