[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**ROUND 1: "Angry Birds Scream"**
**Observation 1**: Meta Ethics: Practical Reason; appeal to human reason
Velleman “ Requirments that depend……..reason to act for reasons.

# Agents ability to will the maxim; universal law guides rational agents
# Universalizing Animal Rights is unrealistic

Neg Burden: Morally relevant distinction between human and non hum which requires de recognition.

**Observation 2:** Ethic: Justice; people have obligation to respect because normative ethical statements cannot prevent abuse or violation of rights.

Must be respected regardless of potential consequences

Francione (**<span style="font-size: 8px;">Professor of Law, Rutgers University,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8px;">1996</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Rain Without Thunder, p. 14] ) </span>
“ If a person….a moral right.

**Observation 3:**
# **Pain matters**
Singer “ a rejection of speciesism…..who feels the pain

**Same rights not needed**
Regan (<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">[Tom; Professor at North Carolina State University; The Animal Rights Debate; 2001; excerpt in the Gale Group Databases]</span>
“ If animals have rights…respect and recognition”

# **Animals are Sentient**
Rollin “**<span style="font-size: 8px;">Professor of Philosophy, Colorado State University, 19</span>****<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">95</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Farm Animal Welfare: social, bioethical, and research issues, p. 38-9”</span>
“Positivism would exclude….of those phenomena”

**Intentional infliction immoral**
Francione 2: Simon proposes to torture….conduct in either case”

**Precautionary Principle can be applied to understanding animals practical autonomy**

**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Wise</span>****<span style="font-size: 8px;">, Animal rights attorney and professor Vermont Law School, 2002</span>****<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;">Drawing the Line: science and the case for animal rights, p. 40</span>
**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">“Wise</span>****<span style="font-size: 8px;">, Animal rights attorney and professor Vermont Law School, 2002</span>****<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;">Drawing the Line: science and the case for animal rights, p. 40</span>
<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">“</span>For centuries law…..terrible injustice imaginable.

3**.** **No Morally relevant distinctions justify discriminating against non-humans.**
Rollin: “There is no …..morally relevant experiences”
==Negative== 
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">V: J (giving each their due)</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">VC: Rejecting arbitrariness</span>

<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">C1: Non-universal</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Ted Benton, Professor of Sociology, University of Essex, 1996, Animal Rights: the changing debate, ed. Robert Garner, p. 38</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">In determining what…their well being</span>

<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Robert James Bidinotto, Director of Development and Special Projects @ the Institute for Objectivist Studies. “Environmentalism or Individualism”. 2003</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">The basic premise…sent to the slammer</span>

<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Peter Staudenmeir (human rights advocate and philospher, “THE AMBIGUITIES OF ANIMAL RIGHTS”, March 2003)</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">It is nevertheless…a free world</span>

<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Peter Staudenmeir 2 (human rights advocate and philospher, “THE AMBIGUITIES OF ANIMAL RIGHTS”, March 2003)</span>
<span style="background-color: transparent; color: #000000; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none; vertical-align: baseline;">Rightly rejecting…their reactionary opposite</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
Round 1:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AC</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I affirm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The resolution uses the word “individuals” without a modifier, so we presume that is refers to some, not necessarily all, individuals. Prefer this interpretation if it is reasonable to combat time skew.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Observation 1. An individual is defined as “__a single human being__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">distinct from a group, class, or family</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">”. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Observation 2. Morally obligatory and morally supererogatory acts are separated by the harm done to the actor. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">John **Rawls** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[James Bryant Conant University Professorship at Harvard University], A Theory of Justice (Revised Edition), Cambridge: The Belknap Press of the Harvard University Press (19**71**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">), </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">p. 100-101 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">I shall say ....</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> open to us.</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the affirmative defends an interpretation of the resolution that sees moral obligations as good acts that do not cause undue or excessive harm to the actor.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The value is morality. This is the most textual value as the resolution demands an answer to moral questions. Morality refers to a code of conduct that would be put forward by all rational persons.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The value criterion, then, is consistency with universalizable principles. This is a preferable criterion for 5 reasons:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Universal maxims are the only reasonable expectations for moral behavior as they apply across the board.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Morality is founded on the premise of inherent equality. Universal expectations are the only moral rules that aren’t nonsensical in this context.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3. Creating exceptions to moral rules can quickly lead to the erosion of morality or its corollaries (rights, respect, etc.) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">4. Only universal maxims can be prescriptive as only they give a specific requirement for moral actions to be deemed acceptable.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">5. Inconsistency with morally sound universal principles is automatically immoral and provides clarity in an otherwise muddy debate.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If a principle is not morally universalizable, then it is not a moral rule. Principles and customs such as voting are political social, or democratic principles, no moral ones. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I contend, then, that assisting people in need is the only possible maxim to will and the only universalizable principle in this debate. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Affirming is not only the intuitive answer, but is syllogistically proven to be logical.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Peter **Singer** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Prof of Bioethics, Princeton) //The Life You Can Safe: Acting Now to End World Hunger//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">20**09**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Another example devised ......</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(even a high cost) to ourselves.</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is an individual’s moral obligation to redress wrongs when the cost of doing so is less than the benefit gained. Because people in need die and suffer from preventable conditions and circumstances, individuals have an obligation motivated by sympathy and confirmed by morality to assist them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The categorical, as conceived by Kant, necessitates the concept of obligation to those in need. The alternatives are both irrational and dangerous.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Pablo **Gilabert** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Concordia University] “Kant and the Claims of the Poor” Philosophy and Phenomenological Research Vol. LXXXI No. 2, September20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The first formulation .....toward each other.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Because of the possibility of reciprocal benefits, affirming is not advocating a supererogatory action. Indeed, affirming creates a world in which people’s duties are universally good and beneficial to the global community.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Society as a whole benefits from an agreed upon principle of mutual obligation to the needy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Robert **Lipkin**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [J.D. UCLA School of Law, Prof. of Constitutional Law at Widener University School of Law] “BEYOND GOOD SAMARITANS AND MORAL MONSTERS: AN INDIVIDUALISTIC JUSTIFICATION OF THE GENERAL LEGAL DUTY TO RESCUE” UCLA Law Review. Vol. 31, 1983-</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">84.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The result is different....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">__l self-interest to do so.__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Even individualists benefit from a society which values helping those in need. Therefore, a ration person will recognize the benefit of accepting the obligation and creating a less self-interested society. Since ration people are the only ones who can will the maxim, they are the only ones the resolution is concerning itself with. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Morality, which operates under the assumption that all rational people able to will a maxim, are equal requires affirming because it is the only way to attempt to restore moral and actual equality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">John **Rawls** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[James Bryant Conant University Professorship at Harvard University], A Theory of Justice (Revised Edition), Cambridge: The Belknap Press of the Harvard University Press (19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">71</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">), p. 86-87</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **2**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">First we may observe.... earlier years of school.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If we are striving for equality of opportunity, which morality suggests we are, the only way to do so is to require individuals to help others in need.</span>
===<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Alternatives fail. Apathy towards existence and morality increases the chance of destruction and forcible rule. </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alan </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Pratt</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Philosophy at Embry-Riddle University, May 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">05</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.iep.utm.edu/nihilism/#H3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">In The Banalization of Nihilism (1992) Karen Carr discusses the antifoundationalist response to nihilism. Although it still inflames a.......Nietzsche’s, who pointed out that </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">all interpretations of the world are simply manifestations of will-to-power.</span>//
Also, external imposition of value upon life is of a higher moral strand than intrinsic purpose.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Moral relativism, if proven faulty in some instances, should not be accepted as a moral principle because is provides inconsistency and unnecessary complication that de-incentivize consistency with moral rules.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Singer</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Kathryn leaves it to.......</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">which cannot be ignored or condoned.</span>

==Negative== 
Round 2:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The affirmative must defend the entirety of the resolution. Artificially limiting of parametricizing the resolution destroys debate. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Value: Morality, defined as a particular system of values and principles of conduct. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Value Criterion: Imposing Reasonable Obligations</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. When morality becomes arbitrary it becomes meaningless. The affirmative mistakenly mislabels a morally permissible and supererogatory action as morally obligatory. Conflating these two categories makes morality meaningless. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Morality is meant to guide action. Without well-reasoned moral system, morality would become so relative as to be unbinding and useless. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 1.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Affirming is unreasonable because it is a blanket statement. Hold the affirmative to the resolution, as the resolution is the only thing both debaters have before the round. Necessitating topicality and textuality enhances predictability and depth of arguments as it dissuades theory. This encourages fairness, a necessity in a competitive activity, because it forces debaters to be substantive.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Even if helping those in need is a moral good, it ought not be an obligation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jan Narveso [Department of Philosophy, University of Waterloo] “Is World Poverty a Moral </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Problem for the Wealthy?” The Journal of Ethics, Vol. 8, No. 4 2004. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"Why, indeed, //should .....// the reader below</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The affirmative is not the best way to provide assistance.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">John Kekes [Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University at Albany], “On the Supposed </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Obligation to Relieve Famine,” //Philosophy// 77:503-517 (2002) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"One reason for .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> __their own suffering__. "</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]