=Affirmative= 
Lack of funding and clear responsibility by the federal government results in lack of development, despite viability of technology.
Shea 2010
<span style="font-size: 9px;">[Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University, (Karen Cramer, Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html NP)</span>

__Space solar power …launch cost reductions__<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span>


Advantage 1: Space Based BMD 
Nuclear War is inevitable 
Scenario 1 – Saudi Arabian Proliferation
Saudi prolif spills over and escalates rapidly, causes global nuclear warEdelman et al. 11 
<span style="font-size: 15px;">*</span>ERIC S. EDELMAN is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9 **ANDREW F. KREPINEVICH is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments.** *EVAN BRADEN MONTGOMERY is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments [[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67162/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/the-dangers-of-a-nuclear-iran|__http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67162/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/the-dangers-of-a-nuclear-iran__]], “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran” January-February 2011]There is, however,.. with unpredictable consequences.



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Scenario 2 – </span>**</span>Middle East instability
The Egyptian revolutions only magnify the risk of prolif, it results in nuclear domino effect 
Sokolski 11
Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center / Senior Military Legislative Aide and Special Assistant on Nuclear Energy Matters (Henry, “Gimme Fuel, Gimme Fire”, [[@http://www.tnr.com/article/82995/nuclear-weapons-middle-east-obama-mubarak?page=0,0//salathe|__http://www.tnr.com/article/82995/nuclear-weapons-middle-east-obama-mubarak?page=0,0//salathe__]])
When the Iranian…. U.S. nuclear cooperation.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Nuclear war</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Blake 2-2</span>
– reporter for The Daily Telegraph nominated Journalist of the Year and Scoop of the Year in the British Press Awards. AP reporter and the Yorkshire Post and was named Journalist of the Year, Feature Writer of the Year and Diversity Writer of the Year in the Guardian Student Media Awards (Heidi, 2010 2007, “WikiLeaks: Middle East Tension and Asia - Potential to lead to nuclear war”,<span style="font-size: 15px;"> [[@http://efoodsglobalbusinessnetwork.blogspot.com/2011/02/wikileaks-middle-east-tension-and-asia.html/ts|__http://efoodsglobalbusinessnetwork.blogspot.com/2011/02/wikileaks-middle-east-tension-and-asia.html//ts__]])</span><span class="UnderlineBold">Tension in the…</span><span style="font-size: 15px;"> advancing its nuclear capabilities</span>


Scenario 3 – U.S. Sino Naval Crisis 
Naval Crisis between the United States and China is inevitable Taiwan makes naval engagement likely
Toshi <span style="font-size: 16px;">Yoshihara, 2010</span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
Taiwan remains the… contingency over Taiwan.

Crisis over Japanese-Chinese territorial disputes makes naval intervention inevitable
Toshi <span style="font-size: 16px;">Yoshihara, 2010</span> (“CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN”, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE, accessed 10/1/10)-Wey
Beyond Taiwan<span class="Emphasis2">, other…</span> upon as first responders.


And, There’s a high risk of impact - Perception that U.S. Naval forces are constrained in central Asia coupled with Chinese nationalism makes even a minor maritime conflict escalate
James <span style="font-size: 16px;">Kraska</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2010</span>(“China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, [[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas]], 5/6/10, accessed 9/28/10)
Fifth, <span class="Emphasis2">China is…</span> balance of sea power.


Hypernationalism guarantees nuclear use.
Scott <span style="font-size: 16px;">Moore</span>, Undergraduate Research Assistant, East Asia Nonproliferation Program, CNS, 10-18-<span style="font-size: 16px;">2006</span>, “Nuclear Conflict in the 21st Century: Reviewing the Chinese Nuclear Threat,” NTI, [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_80.html]]
It thus appearsHypernationalism guarantees nuclear use.
Scott <span style="font-size: 16px;">Moore</span>, Undergraduate Research Assistant, East Asia Nonproliferation Program, CNS, 10-18-<span style="font-size: 16px;">2006</span>, “Nuclear Conflict in the 21st Century: Reviewing the Chinese Nuclear Threat,” NTI, [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_80.html]]
It thus appears… include nuclear weapons.


Extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Straits Times</span> June 25 <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span> “Regional Fallout: No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”
Will a full-scale… above everything else.


Scenario 4 – Missile Proliferation 
Missile proliferation is spreading to the Middle East – missile defence is key to maintain deterrence
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Said, 2001</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Maj. Gen. (ret.) Dr Mohamed Kadry Said is Head of the Military Studies Unit and Technology Advisor at the Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies (Cairo), Professor of Missile Flight Mechanics at the Military Technical College (Cairo), and member of the committee for strategic planning in the Egyptian Council for Space Research, Science and Technology, "Missile Proliferation in the Middle East: a Regional Perspective," http://www.unidir.ch/pdf/articles/pdf-art75.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif';">The Middle East. chemical warheads will increase.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif';">This is the only scenario for Escalation – causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Bahig </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Nassar</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, Arab Co-ordinating Centre of Non-Governmental Organizations, and Afro-Asian People’s Solidary Organization, 11/25/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">02</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, keynote paper for Cordoba Dialogue on Peace and Human Rights in Europe and the Middle East, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">[[http://www.inesglobal.org/BahigNassar.htm]]</span>

__Wars in the Middle East__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> instead of solving them.</span>


Space missile defense is key to effective BMD - it’s the only way to effectively deter and prevent conflict escalation and missile acquisition – other missile defense systems do not solve ballistic missile countermeasures – no boost phase capability Pfaltzgraff et al 9
<span style="font-size: 13px;">(Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,” </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]]</span>
There is ample reason….<span style="font-size: 11px;"> citizens. And access</span>


And independently, BMD solves risk of nuclear conflict—There is no risk of a disad impact in a world of space base Missile Defense – it checks missile and WMD proliferation, makes shooting wars impossible, deters enemies, and provides diplomatic leverage—collapse of American naval power guarantees your impacts
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hicks 8</span>, 
Rear Admiral, USN, Program Director and Commander, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense (Alan, “Seabased ballistic: missile defense,” Joint Force Quarterly, National Defense University, July) 

Since the end…//<span style="font-family: 'FrutigerLTStd-LightItalic','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> for preventing wars.</span>//

SPS is a key internal link to Space based missile defense and UAVs – power generation and also allows for satellite defense against ASATs
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ramos 2000</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Kim, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base, “Solar Power Constellations: Impl</span>ications for the United States Air Force,” April, [[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]])

In addition to… the RF beam.

And, Put your militarization turns away - 
We can aqquire BMD before adversaries can retaliate 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman, 10</span>
Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Forces School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space, [[@http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/Backgrounder%20Dolman%20US%20Weapons%20in%20Space.pdf|__http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/Backgrounder%20Dolman%20US%20Weapons%20in%20Space.pdf__]])
Weapons in Space…for the time being.


And, No risk of retaliation - Destruction of missiles breaks down enemies will to fight and destroys morale psychologicallyDinerman 8
Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York office. He was an author of the textbook Space Science for Students and has been a part time consultant for the US Defense Department (Taylor, “Space-based missile defense and the psychology of warfare”, [[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1205/1/salathe|____http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1205/1//salathe____]])
Anyone who wants… **shorten the conflict.**



Independently, US space vulnerability make an anti- satellite attack inevitable- This evidence gives 6 sceneriosPutnam, 9
(Christopher – major @ usaf/masters of mil studies @ marine corps univ, Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy, March 25, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
China is also… of hostile action.,,56 


**And, an ASAT attack decimates US early warning capability, breaking down deterrence and risks nuclear miscalculation****Burke, 6** (ALAN W. – LT COLONEL @ USAF, SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR, APRIL 17, [[https://research.maxwell.af.mil/papers/ay2006/awc/burke.pdf]]**)**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Today, our space-based…a nuclear first strike.</span>

**And, probability and magnitude are high- ASAT attack quickly goes nuclear- war games prove Deblois, 3** (BRUCE M. – FELLOW FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY @ COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS, THE ADVENT OF SPACE WEAPONS, ASTROPOLITICS, VOL. 1, NO. 1, SPRING, [[http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Bergman_11ast03.pdf]])
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>



<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">In most war…triggering nuclear responses</span></span></span>


<span class="Underline"> </span>
=Inherency= 


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solar power satellite technology is ready to go online, but the United States is not pursuing it</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cox 3-23-2011</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[William John, Consortium News, “The Race for Solar Energy from Space,” [[http://www.consortiumnews.com/Print/2011/032311b.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Presently, only the top industrialized nations have the technological… which will be competitive with all other sources.</span>



**Lack of funding and clear responsibility with the United States federal government results in lack of development, despite viability of technology.**
[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|**Shea**]], Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University, 20**10** (Karen Cramer, Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]] NP)

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space solar power has been studied</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… should be funded in anticipation of launch cost reductions</span>__**

=[[#Warming Advantage]]Warming Advantage= 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solar Powered Satellites are key to avoid warming’s “tipping point” of the worst impacts</span>**
Dr. Feng **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hsu, 10</span>__**, Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]])

__It has become increasingly evident that facing and solving… human beings can use in a whole year__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**Space-based solar power is key 4 Reasons: Limitless energy, Can be redirected to meet local peak needs, Is routed directly into electrical grid, Can be used in production of other carbon neutral fuel sources**
Mankins 08 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(John C., former manager of Advanced Concepts Studies at NASA, undergraduate (Harvey Mudd College) and graduate (UCLA) degrees in Physics and an MBA in Public Policy Analysis (The Drucker School at Claremont Graduate University), member of the International Academy of Astronautics (IAA), the International Astronautical Federation (IAF), the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), and the Sigma Xi Research Society, President of ARTEMIS Innovation Management Solutions LLC, a research and development management consulting start-up that solves tough innovation challenges for government, industry and not-for-profit clients, and Co-founder of Managed Energy Technologies LLC, a new energy technology start-up that aspires to transform solar energy solutions for terrestrial and space markets, 25-year career at NASA ranged from flight projects and space mission operations, to systems-level innovation and advanced technology research and development management, Spring, ad Astra, Special Report: Space-based Solar Power Inexhaustable Energy From Orbit, page @ [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]], )</span>


At an altitude of 22,240 miles <span class="underline0">__above Earth… requirements of populations separated by thousands of miles__</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IT is the only technology that can actually solve warming</span>**
Dr. Feng **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hsu, 10</span>__**, Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]])

__Solar Energy vs. Other Forms of Renewable Sources… there are business models for overcoming these issues__


**Global Warming causes extinction**
**Strickland Jr., founder and chairman for the Austin Space Frontier Society, 2010**
(John K. Strickland Jr., [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/strickland1.html]], Winter 2010, as)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What would </span>__the worst effects of Global Warming__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> be like… </span>__that existed during the Jurassic, with huge new fisheries.__

=[[#Weather Control Advantage]]Weather Control Advantage= 
<span class="Underline">**Sps can control Weather**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Scenario 1: Tornado formation**</span>

<span class="Underline">**SPS can stop tornados from forming, simulations have proved**</span>
**Rosato 11** (Bill, Writer for earth changes tv, [[http://earthchangesmedia.com/breaking/August2000/0811microwaves.htm]], “Scientist Plan to Zap Tornadoes with Microwaves”, 1/13/11, 8/26/11, ZB)

``Eastlund found he could make do with a… the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency, said.

**Tornadoes cause nuclear meltdowns**
The Ecologist 2003 **(Annie Birdsong, “re: what if the world trade centre had been a nuclear power station?” pg. online @[[http://www.theecologist.org/forumViewMessage.html?id=72|www.theecologist.org/forumViewMessage.html?id=72]])**

<span class="CardsFont12ptChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Not only do we need to worry about terrorists attacking</span>____<span style="font-size: 9pt;">… </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">after explosions of nuclear bombs during 700 or so weapons tests</span>

**Extinction**
Wasserman 02(Harvey, enior advisor to Greenpeace USA and the Nuclear Information & Resource Service “Nuclear Power and Terrorism,” Earth island Journal Spring 2002 Vol. 17, No.1)

As <span class="CardsFont12ptChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">at Three Mile Island, where thousands… and of all future generations must be shut down</span>__</span>.


**Scenario 2: Air Power (Maybe if there is time for aff for weather control)**
**Air power is key to power projection in Asia- solves prolif**
Khalilzad and Lesser 98 [Zalmay and Ian, Senior Researchers – Rand, Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century, page online @[[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf|http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/...R897.chap3.pdf]])

This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key… “nonlethal” weapons to attain results previously attainable by lethal means alone.

**Plan allows weather modification capabilites- key to air power**
Eastlund 05 (Bernard J. physicist who received his B.S. in physics from MIT and his Ph.D. in physics from Columbia University. He led a team of scientists and engineers working for Advanced Power Technologies, Inc, and Jenkins, retired from NASA after 38 years of systems engineering activity. Major projects included Apollo and Space Shuttle, design engineer on the Atlas ICBM and the Centaur, first liquid hydrogen upper stage and Lyle M., Eastlund Scientific Enterprises, Thunderstorm Solar Power Satellite-Issues Dealing with Weather Modification, page @ [[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel5/11012/34697/01656145.pdf?tp=&isnumber=34697&arnumber=1656145]] )
<span class="underline0">__Over the course of the next century, the weather… suppressing the downdrafts that drive tornado formation__</span>.


**Prolif in Asia causes big nuclear wars**
**<span style="color: black;">Friedburg 94 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>Princeton University, Aaron, International Security, Winter, p. 8)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Assuming, for the moment that an Asia… the dangers of misperception, miscalculation, and war.</span>


=[[#Leadership Advantage]]Leadership Advantage= 

<span class="Underline">**Energy Crisis will lead to a loss of US HEG**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mahan, author for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, No Date Given</span>
<span class="Underline">(Rob Mahan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/#01|http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/#01]], Last Modified 06/24/2011, as)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I can remember when gasoline was about 25 cents… </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">America</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> will find itself surrounded by friends and allies once again</span>__



**Military use of sps increases readiness and improves force structure**
**Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><For </span>__the DoD specifically, beamed energy… to a strategically secure energy supply__


**Hegemony collapse guarantees several scenarios for extinction within a year**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Drezner, ‘3</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Daniel W., Assistant Professor of Political Science at University of Chicago, “The perils of hegemonic power”, January 6, 2003,[[http://www.danieldrezner.com/archives/2003_01.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Ignatieff's cover story on empire in yesterday's… </span>nor will it erase the natural emnity that comes with it.

=[[#x*Plan Text*]]***Plan Text***= 

**The United States federal government should deploy Space Based Solar Power. Requisite funding and enforcement provided.**

=[[#Solvency]]Solvency= 

**SPS solves warming entirely, it’s comparatively better than all other solutions.**
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;">NSS ’11,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> National Space Society June 3, 2011, “Space Solar Power: Limitless clean energy from space”,[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/|**http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/**]])</span>

<span style="color: black;">The United States and the world need… nearly all the electricalneeds of our planet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">SPS and TSPS is the same technology</span>**
Eastlund, 2005<span style="font-size: 8pt;">physicist who received his B.S. in physics from MIT and his Ph.D. in physics from Columbia University. He led a team of scientists and engineers working for Advanced Power Technologies, Inc, and Jenkins, retired from NASA after 38 years of systems engineering activity. Major projects included Apollo and Space Shuttle, design engineer on the Atlas ICBM and the Centaur, first liquid hydrogen upper stage, 5 (Bernard J. and Lyle M., Eastlund Scientific Enterprises, Thunderstorm Solar Power Satellite-Issues Dealing with Weather Modification, page @ [[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel5/11012/34697/01656145.pdf?tp=&isnumber=34697&arnumber=1656145]], )</span>

A solar power satellite is proposed<span class="underline0">…</span> effectively dissolved in the computer simulation.
=Negative= 
----
= = 
**Space Mil DA**
**Obama not pursuing space weaponization** **New York Times, 10** <span style="font-size: 10px;">(William Broad and Kenneth Chang, “ Obama Reverses Bush’s Space Policy”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/29/science/space/29orbit.html]])</span> __The Obama administration …and vague conditions.__
**Space exploration is inevitably tied with space militarization.** <span style="font-size: 10px;">Raymond D. </span>**Duvall**<span style="font-size: 10px;">, and Jonathan </span>**Havercroft**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> , University of Minnesota & University of Victoria, March 22-25,</span>**2006**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> (“Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weaponization and the Production of Late-Modern Political Subjects,” International Studies Association. [[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/0/9/8/6/8/pages98680/p98680-1.php|http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/0/9/8/6/8/pages98680/p98680-1.php]] ). </span>__The weaponization of … **potential military use****.**__
**Weaponization causes war and it results in extinction** **Mitchell, 01**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span> (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]) <span style="font-size: 16px;">A buildup of space weapons…</span>conflict ever seen.
<span style="font-size: 13px;">EU CP CP Text – The European Union should [insert plan mandates] through the European Space Agency</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The “European Approach” makes the EU the most qualified to engage in space R&D EC 10</span><span style="font-size: 10px;"> (European Commission, “European Space Technology Platform,” EC, 2010, [[ftp://ftp.cordis.lu/pub/era/docs/18_euspace_tp_en.pdf]]) Taking into account Europe’s relatively modest overall engagement and its lack of capability to profit from dual-use synergies due to its low commitments in the security and defence area, </span>Europe is<span style="font-size: 10px;"> still </span>in a<span class="Underline"> …</span>other R&D related areas<span class="Underline">.</span> <span style="font-size: 13px;">And, Europe solves space exploration best – ISS knowledge acquisition, programs, and components are internationally recognized as the most credible</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">Horneck 10</span> <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Gerda- German Aerospace Center, Institute of Aerospace Medicine, Coradini, Angioletta - Italian Institute of Physics of Interplanetary Space, Haerendel, Gerhard - Max Planck Institute for Extraterrestrial Physics, Kallenrode, May-Britt - Professor at University of Osnabrück, Kamoun, Paul - Board Chairman of the European Association of Remote Sensing Companies (EARSC), Swings, Jean Pierre - The Department of Astrophysics, Geophysics and Oceanography, University of Liège, Tobias, Alberto- European Space Agency’s European Space Research and Technology Centre, Tortora, Jean-Jacques- EUROSPACE - The Association of European Space Industry, “Towards a European vision for space exploration: Recommendations of the Space Advisory Group of the European Commission,” “Space Policy” Volume 26 Issue 2, May 1, 2010, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964610000238]]) [Crystal Hou] So far </span>European scientists …space exploration programme<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span> XO CP **First, executive foreign policy superior to legislation for 5 reasons, 1. faster, 2. better information, 3. public demand, 4. weak interest groups, 5. congressional reluctance** <span style="font-size: 10px;">Paul </span><span class="Heading3Char">Peterson</span><span style="font-size: 10px;"> (Professor, Government at Harvard University) </span><span class="Heading3Char">1994</span><span style="font-size: 10px;"> The President, The Congress, And The Making Of Foreign Policy, p. 14-15</span> <span class="StyleUnderlineChar">The distinction between foreign …</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">to executive branch expectations” (1973, 213-3).</span>
**Second, executive orders save political capital by avoiding and preempting congressional opposition** <span style="font-size: 10px;">Joel </span><span class="Heading3Char">Fleishman</span><span style="font-size: 10px;"> (Professor of Law & Policy Sciences at Duke University) </span><span class="Heading3Char">1976</span><span style="font-size: 10px;"> Law & Contemporary Problems, Summer p. 38</span> <span class="StyleUnderlineChar">Several related factors, in …</span>a powerful opposing position<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Virilio</span>**
**The notion of peace is a fantasy- we currently live in a state of terrorism in which we are civilian soldiers and are in the midst of a war already** **Borg 03** (Mark B. Jr. Practicing psychoanalyst and community/organizational consultant. Graduate of the William Alanson White Institute’s psychoanalytic certification program. “Psychoanalytic Pure War: Interactions with the Post-Apocalyptic Unconcious” JPCS: “Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture & Society, Volume 8, Number 1, Spring 2003. P.2 Ohio State Univ. Project Muse.]
__In pure war … well-protected cultural exterior.__
**Acceleration into space generates the sense of constant speed– culminates in the production of the war machine** **Adams,**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> Masters Political Science, </span>**03** <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Jason, Popular Defense in the Empire of Speed: Paul Virilio and the Phenomenology of the Political Body,” November 2003)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">It certainly is …</span><span class="Underline">**that is exterminated**</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">”.</span>
**The war machine of the state puts us in a “constant state of emergency” in which one inevitable accident dooms us all to extinction through a world holocaust via weapons of mass destruction** **Kellner 8** – Professor, George F. Kneller Philosophy of Education Chair, Social Sciences and Comparative Education, UCLA (8/31/2008,Douglas, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, Illuminations: The Critical Theory Website, [[http://intermedios.geografias.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/virilioilluminationskellner.pdf]]) MGM
<span style="font-size: 10px;">In addition, for Virilio,... democratic political participation and interaction. </span>
**Our alternative is to engage in eschatology of the accident – when faced with catastrophe, we should step back and acknowledge our powerlessness, breaking the endless cycle of invention and destruction that has characterized the 21st century.** **Virilio 07** – (Paul, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, “The original accident,” trans. by Julie Rose, Polity, available online DH)
__Faced with this … of post-industrial eschatology.__
**Framing is key – our discussions of military space policy shape the reality of space** **Bormann 6** – Visiting Assistant Professor at the Department of Political Science at Northeastern, PhD in International Policies (3/2006, Natalie, “The Lost Dimension? A Virilian reading of Outer Space Weaponization”, ISA Conference inSan Diego) MGM
<span style="font-size: 10px;">To begin with, </span>__the … possibilities of military technology.__ __SKFTA__ <span class="Underline">**SKFTA will pass now – Political capital crucial and deal key to the alliance** Sukhan **Kim** (senior partner specializing in international trade at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP) **9/6** "Pushing the FTA to the finish line" koreajoongangdaily.joinsmsn.com/news/article/Article.aspx?aid=2941157</span> //**Despite**//<span style="font-size: 10px;"> these </span>//**hurdles**//<span class="Underline">**,**the….</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">ratification of Korus FTA</span><span class="Underline">. </span>
**Failure to ratify SKFTA crushes the alliance and US leadership in Asia.** <span style="font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.wharton.upenn.edu/|The ]][[http://www.wharton.upenn.edu/|Wharton]][[http://www.wharton.upenn.edu/| School]]</span><span style="font-size: 10px;"> ([[http://www.upenn.edu/|University of Pennsylvania]]) </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">1/12</span><span style="font-size: 10px;"> “U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports?”, Knowledge@Wharton, Law and Public Policy, [[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671]] What's more, </span><span class="Underline">t</span>he fate of the pact has national security implications<span style="font-size: 10px;">, says Brian Pomper, a partner at the Akin Gump law firm in Washington, D.C. and a former trade counsel for Sen. Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee. </span><span class="Underline">With a nuclear-armed …reputation on the line."</span>
**Alliance is critical to Prevent Korean war.** <span style="font-size: 13px;">Pritchard et al, 09</span> – President of the Korea Economic Institute (Charles L, 6/16. With John H. Tilelli Jr., Chairman and CEO, Cypress International, and Scott A. Snyder, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Korea Studies, CFR. “A New Chapter for U.S.-South Korea Alliance.” Council on Foreign Relations. [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/19635/new_chapter_for_ussouth_korea_alliance.html]]) <span style="font-size: 10px;">While all eyes have …put pressure on North Korea.</span>
**Korean war risks extinction** <span style="font-size: 10px;">Clare </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Doyle</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">, CWI, “Korean Peninsula: Nuclear Sabre-Rattling,” SOCIALIST WORLD, 6-7-</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">09</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">, www.socialistworld.net/eng/2009/06/0701.html, accessed 5-4-10. In the past couple of …</span><span class="underline0">very </span>survival of the planet.