[[toc]]
=September-October= 
If you'd like any cites, feel free to e-mail me at [[mailto:david.freed@smes.org|david.freed@smes.org]] .
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
V: Morality

The affirmative burden is to prove that individuals not living in poverty have a moral obligation to help those living below the poverty line.

Prefer util:
John Hill (**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The Case for Vegetarianism: Philosophy for a Small Planet, 1996 )</span>**
"What happens in...in real situations."

Cummiskey (<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Associate Professor of Philosophy – Bates, GEWIRTH: CRITICAL ESSAYS ON ACTION, RATIONALITY, AND COMMUNITY, ed., Boylan, 1999, p. 134.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"The PGC's goal...limiting Gerwirthian consequentialism."</span>

Duty, not charity to give.
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Peter Singer [Prof. Bioethics at Princeton] “Famine, Affluence, and Morality” Philosophy and Public Affairs, vol. 1, no. 1 Spring 1972</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"If my argument...to do so."</span>

No act/omission distinction.

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jay Silver [J.D. 1981 Vanderbilt University] “The Duty to Rescue: A Reexamination and Proposal” William and Mary Law Review. Vol. 26, Issue 3, 1985.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"No one, however...of punishable omissions."</span>

People are not assisting those in need.
Singer2
"I write this...in the future."

Poverty sucks... a lot.
<span style="color: black;">James Gilligan, Department of Psychiatry Harvard Medical School, VIOLENCE: REFLECTIONS ON OURDEADLIEST EPIDEMIC, 2000, p 195-196.</span>
<span style="color: black;">"The 14 to 18 million...throughout the world."</span>

<span style="color: black;">So... let's get rid of it... now.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Singer 3 (</span>[Professor of Bioethics, Princeton University], The Life You Can Save, New York: Random House (2009), p. xii)
"We live in...seize the opportunity."

==Negative== 
Standard: Maintaining morality's value as an evaluative system.

I contend that affirming makes morality useless as an evaluative system as it would make every person immoral.

Jacques Derrida (1995, __The Gift of Death__, page 68)
"As soon as...the other others."

Daniel Waterman (2004, Interview, [[http://dreamflesh.com/interviews/suffering/]])
"I personally don't...have become extinct."


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]