[[toc]]
=Contact Info= 
email mxywong@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==Plan Text== 
**The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate space based solar power in non-geostationary orbit.**
==1AC - Hegemony== 
**Contention 1 is Hegemony**

**The U.S. aerospace industrial base is dying – lack of funding kills research and development**
**Grant 11** (Rebecca Grant, Ph.D. in International Relations from the London School of Economics, Director of the General William Mitchell Institute for Airpower Studies, worked for RAND and the offices of the Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff of the Air Force, president of IRIS Independent Research, contributor to Air Force Magazine, has written extensively on airpower, 6/20/11, “Crunch Time for the Industrial Base”, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/June%202011/0611base.aspx | AK)

Defense budgets are flat. … as a commercial airframe.)

**It’s reverse causal – U.S. aerospace collapse is inevitable absent the plan**
**Matai 10** (D.K., PhD in Engineering, won The Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of Innovation for Bespoke Security Architecture in 2003, authority on countering complex global threats; strategic risk management & visualisation; contingency planning; Information Operations (IO); electronic defence; biometric authentication; secure payment systems and Open Source hardened kernel solutions, 6-13-2010, “Japan Takes Lead in Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply,” Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance, http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3Awww.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php)

In the footsteps of Nikola Tesla …21st century and beyond!

**And, collapse of the industrial base and aerospace industry tanks U.S. competitiveness and innovation**
**Albaugh 11** (Jim Albaugh, Executive Vice President of The Boeing Company, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, former President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Integrated Defense Systems, former President and CEO of Boeing Space and Communications, former President of Rocketdyne Power & Propulsion, Honorary Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, serves as Board Chairman of the Aerospace Industries Association, B.A. in Mathematics and Physics from Willamette University, M.A. in Civil Engineering from Columbia University, 4/27/11, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace””, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/speech_042711_albaugh.pdf | AK)

Today we take America’s …To me, that’s unconscionable.

**Independently, SBSP expands the workforce and fosters innovation – both are key to U.S. competitiveness**
**NSSO 7** (National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/nexgen/Nexgen_Downloads/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf | AK)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP offers … of the American Competitiveness Initiative.

**That’s key to U.S. economic stability and growth**
**Herrnstadt 8** (Owen E. Herrnstadt, director of the Trade and Globalization Department at the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, 4/17/08, “OFFSETS AND THE LACK OF A COMPREHENSIVE U.S. POLICY: What Do Other Countries Know That We Don’t?”, http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201/bp201.pdf | AK)

Aerospace is an especially important industry … (Aerospace Industries Commission 2002, 8-12).

**Economic decline causes global nuclear war**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8** (Aaron, prof. of politics and IR at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, senior editor of Commentary, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon, 10/21/08, “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” http://online.wsj.co...4012352571.html // KX)

With the global financial system in serious trouble, … straw that breaks the camel's back.

**And, aerospace dominance secures U.S. leadership and hegemony**
**Walker 2** (Robert Walker, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners”, http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf | AK)

Defending our nation against its enemies … world’s preeminent military power.

**US hegemony prevents several scenarios for global nuclear war**
**Kagan 7** – Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, August-September, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Policy Review, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html

Finally, there is the United States itself. … global involvement will provide an easier path.

==1AC - Energy== 
**Contention 2 is Energy**
**Limiting emissions now is key to avoid runaway warming**
**Somerville 11** (Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis)

In early 2007, at the time of the publication … near zero well within this century.

**Negative evidence of warming denialism is unqualified and not peer-reviewed**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 11** (Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change,” 6/24, http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558)

But despite these complexities, … alleged “vested interests” of scientists.

**Warming is real and anthropogenic**
**Rahmstorf 8** (Richard, Professor of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, Edited by Ernesto Zedillo, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?” pg. 42-4)

It is time to turn to … a reality with which we need to deal.

**Runaway warming will make adaption impossible – emission cuts now are key**
**Hansen 8** (Professor of Earth and Environmental Science James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf)

Fast feedbacks—changes that occur … casualty in all this will be wildlife.

**Warming is the only existential risk**
**Deibel 7** [Terry L. Deibel, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” pages 397-8, 2007]

Finally, there is one major existential threat … to the continued existence of life on this planet.

**Perception of SPS development independently causes international cooperation on warming**
**Medin 10** (Kristen, Chief Industrial Designer, NewSpace DesignLabs, “Disruptive Technology: A Space-Based Solar Power Industry Forecast,” Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue no. 16, Winter 2010, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/medin.html)

Now, multiple nations are exploring the … the important issues of tomorrow with increased global cooperation.

**SBSP is the only form of alternative energy that can relieve fossil fuel dependence – optimum efficiency and feasibility**
**Hsu 10** (Dr. Feng Hsu, Sr. Vice President of Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, 2010, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)

We must set priorities and choose wisely. … models for overcoming these issues.

==1AC - Solvency== 
**Contention 3 is Solvency**
**Non-geostationary orbit is key – makes SPS cost-competitive, solves launch costs and efficiency, and avoids your disads**
**Jones 10** (Royce, Space Technology Entrepeneur, BA in Construction Management, Computer Programming, and Computer Aided Design, Former Marine Corps NCO, Expert on SPS, " Alternative Orbits: A New Space Solar Power Reference Design," Online Journal of Space Communication, Winter, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/jones.html, EMM)

This paper offers a new space solar … the launch costs can be less expensive.

**SPS can be up and running within one year – US is key.**
**Costa 10** (Rebecca, Sociobiologist, expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies, a popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1/2010, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/)

If we took a moment to rank every … to eclipse every other energy solution here on earth.

**Initial government demonstration is key to catalyze full private sector development of an SBPS industry**
**NSSO 7** (National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>Based Solar Power: As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473860&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

The SBSP Study Group concludes that space<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>based solar power does present … of SBSP and incentivize its development.

**Economic benefits happen before any component is ever in space**
**SEC 8** (Space Enterprise Council, 2008, NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2008-SECSpaceBasedSolarPowerWhitePaper.pdf)

SBSP is unusual among renewable energy … than a competitor with, terrestrial solar power generation.

**No perception of military threat – existence of ICBMs make SPS an undesirable weapon**
**NSSO 7** (National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>Based Solar Power: As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473860&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

When first confronted with the idea of gigawatts … continue to conduct the research in an open environment

**SPS is technologically viable**
**Ashworth 8** (Fellow @ the British Interplanetary Society, 2008, Stephen, Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23,http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1)

Usually, Day’s articles are among the best-written … contradicted by the actual contents of the NSSO study report.


=Negative= 
==Politicization of Science== 
===1NC=== 
**They don’t have an aff - Most recent NASA satellite data, from the satellites they say haven’t been put up yet, shows no heat retention – 0 risk of greenhouse effect. Prefer hard data over their computer models** 
**International Business Times 7/29** (By IBTimes Staff Reporter, “Scientist Attempts to Debunk Global Warming: Legit Data or Political Ploy?”, 7/29/11, http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/189386/20110729/global-warming-roy-spencer-nasa-terra-debunked-al-gore-climate-change.htm)

A scientist is claiming that data … of atmospheric sciences, said to LiveScience.

**The affirmative recreates the State of Fear – modern society runs of Fear of the unknown, always trying to find the next Witch to burn. Only the alternative can stop the inevitable fascism of the cycle.** 
**Deming 5** (David Deming, College of Geoscience at the University of Oklahoma, in the Journal of Scientific Exploration, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 247-256, “Global Warming, the Politicization of Science, and Michael Crichton's State of Fear”)

Has it ever occurred to you … scientists themselves become fanatics. (Johnson, 1991: 154)

**Politicized science justifies things like eugenics – political programs hiding behind a false veil of science. This makes extinction inevitable.** 
**Crichton 4** (Michael Crichton, postdoctoral fellow at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies, researching public policy with Jacob Bronowski. He taught courses in anthropology at Cambridge University and writing at MIT, 2004 “State of Fear” http://www.michaelcrichton.net/essay-stateoffear-whypoliticizedscienceisdangerous.html)

Imagine that there is a new … few who did not adjust disappeared.

**The alternative sets a barrier between politics and science – only way to solve politics’ domination of science. We reserve the right to advocate any part of the plan.** 
**Murray 11** (Ian Murray, writer for the Washington Times, 1/13/11 “Politicized science costs us all” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/jan/13/politicized-science-costs-us-all/)

After a 21-month delay, White House science adviser … do not heed Ike’s warning, scientific integrity will suffer.

===2NC Framework=== 
**The roll of the ballot is for the judge to be a scientist – science education is a prerequisite to effective politics. We must use science to fight for what is right and good, not for fear and impacts**
**Hodson 3** (Derek Hodson, International Journal of Science Education, 2003 “Time for action: Science education for an alternative future” http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/09500690305021)

Following a brief historical survey … is action research linked to community involvement.

===2NC Links=== 
**The aff’s data is falsified – the famous hockey stick graph just uses skewed axis – and all their climate change data simply ignores the Medieval Warming Period – which IPCC data supports.** 
**Deming 5** (David Deming, College of Geoscience at the University of Oklahoma, in the Journal of Scientific Exploration, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 247-256, “Global Warming, the Politicization of Science, and Michael Crichton's State of Fear”)

During the early 1990s, an important reference … rescinded Bellesiles' Bancroft Prize (Anonymous, 2002).

**The 2001 IPCC report on global warming says that “the long-term prediction of future climate states is not possible”. They have 0 impact scenarios supported by science**
**IPCC 1** (IPCC 3rd assessment report, Chapter 14 Executive Summary, Working Group I: The Scientific Basis, starting at the 4th bullet point from the bottom of page 774. http://www.grida.no/publications/other/ipcc_tar/?src=/climate/ipcc_tar/wg1/501.htm)

Address more completely patterns … to attack the question of changes in extreme events.

**Even if the IPCC started policy oriented they’ve been politicized by poor leadership**
**Pielke 6** (Robert A. Pielke, a professor of environmental science at the University of Colorado and a fellow of the Cooperative Institute for Research in the Environmental Sciences (CIRES), 2006 “When Scientists
Politicize Science” http://www.cato.org/pubs/regulation/regv29n1/v29n1-4.pdf)

Another example is offered by Rajendra Pachauri, … politicizing the ipcc and his chairmanship.

===2NC AT: Perm=== 
**The perm’s use of politics inevitably gets coopted – past attempts prove that science for a purpose cannot create positive change**
**Pielke 6** (Robert A. Pielke, a professor of environmental science at the University of Colorado and a fellow of the Cooperative Institute for Research in the Environmental Sciences (CIRES), 2006 “When Scientists
Politicize Science” http://www.cato.org/pubs/regulation/regv29n1/v29n1-4.pdf)

One great irony of the debate … bring politics into science rather than science into policy.

===2NC AT: Cede the Political=== 
**The alternative is rejects utopia – we must use science for policy not politics to prevent Serial Policy Failure** 
**Pielke 6** (Robert A. Pielke, a professor of environmental science at the University of Colorado and a fellow of the Cooperative Institute for Research in the Environmental Sciences (CIRES), 2006 “When Scientists
Politicize Science” http://www.cato.org/pubs/regulation/regv29n1/v29n1-4.pdf)

An alternative to the linear, get-the-facts-then-act model … to be smuggled into debates putatively about science.

==Strategies== 
===Harvard=== 
**Round 1 - vs. Brooklyn Tech BS**
Aff - Earth Monitoring
Advantages - Race, Warming

1NC - GOES CP, Military Clean Energy DA, Politicization of Science K, case
2NR - Politicization of Science

**Round 4 - vs. Barstow BL**
Aff - Property Rights
Advantages - Economy, OST

1NC - XO CP, Pres Powers Net Benefit, Military Clean Energy DA, case (DeDev, Weaponization Good)
2NR - XO CP and Pres Powers

**Round 6 - Clear Lake LG**
Aff - Constellation
Advantages - Colonization, Warming, Hegemony

1NC - XO CP, Pres Powers Net Benefit, Politicization of Science K, case
2NR - Condo (to explain, the 1AR was 5 minutes of Condo Bad)

**Doubles - Desert Vista MB**
Aff - DSCOVR
Advantages - Solar Flares, Warming

1NC - XO CP, Pres Powers Net Benefit, Politicization of Science K, case
2NR - XO CP and Pres Powers

**Octos - Denver SM**
Aff - Solar Sails
Advantages - Multilateralism/Soft Power, Warming, Solar Flares

1NC - XO CP, Pres Powers Net Benefit, Politicization of Science K, case
2NR - XO CP and Pres Powers
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]