[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Speaker Positions</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Charles: 2A**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Lenny: 2N**</span>
=<span style="color: #131316; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;">
</span></span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Latinidad 1AC</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[Spanish Narrative] </span>**</span></span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">IN THE WORDS OF GIL SCOTT-HERON:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">AMERICA WAS A BASTARD, THE ILLEGITIMATE DAUGHTER OF THE MOTHER COUNTRY WHO’S LEGS WERE THEN SPREAD AROUND THE WORLD AND A RAPIST KNOWN AS FREEDOM. FREEDOOM! DEMOCRACY, LIBERTY AND JUSTICE WE’RE REVOLUTIONARY CODE NAMES THAT PROCEEDED THE BUBBLING, BUBBLING, BUBBLING IN THE MOTHER COUNTRY’S CROTCH. LATIN AMERICA NONETHELESS THE OFFSPRING, A FETUS CREATING THE COLONIALITY OF POWER, THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE UNIVERSES’ RESOURCES FOR A CERTAIN GROUP OF BENEFICIARIES, A RECONSTRUCTION OF THE IMAGINATION THAT CREATED A COGNITIVE REORGANIZATION OF THE WORLD THROUGH RACIAL MEANS. THE RESOLUTION ACTS AS THE CONTINUED GLOBAL ONTOLOGICAL CONFUSION THAT ATTEMPTS TO BRING AN ETHICAL COHERENCE TO THE SEDUCTION OF THE EUROCENTRIC MODEL OF DOMINATION AND THE CONQUERING OF LAND FOR THE MEANS OF ‘DEVELOPMENT’, THIS SYSTEMATIC EXTORTION NOW ASPIRATION, BLUEPRINT, AND AN IMAGINATIVE PORTER FOR LATIN AMERICA AND AFRICA</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">ANIBAL__QUIJANO__ “COLONIALITY AND MODERNITY/RATIONALITY” JUNE __2010__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">He attended National University of San Marcos (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UNMSM|UNMSM]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">), Peru, where he earned a Ph.D. degree in 1964. Until 1995, he was Senior Lecturer at the Faculty of Social Sciences of San Marcos. He is currently Professor of the Department of Sociology at </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binghamton_University|Binghamton University]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">, New York. Dr. Quijano is a distinguished intellectual in the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Sciences|Social Sciences]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">, who has held several positions as a visiting professor at universities worldwide]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">With the conquest of the societies and the cultures......</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **__cultures could hardly exist today and, above all, reproduce itself outside of these relations__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We live in a nation of White polity, one that seeks to rationalize lands in which White spaces invade NON-White ones, conquer them, and discursively remap and control the Space and its inhabitants. This nation has roots in the Age of Exploration and Discovery when Columbus and the Conquistadors, conquered, murdered and raped the Natives creating the Latin American. The genealogy of exploring SPACE is intertwined with theories of Western Metaphysics and RACE.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mills 97</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Charles W., Associate Professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, Chicago, “The Racial Contract”)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Consider the extended body of Leviathan</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.......</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__of the white polis is demonstrated both in its self-conception and in its actual topography.__** </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The White polity’s rationalization takes place spatially but also on a linguistic level. Countries like Puerto Rico continually get dominated by the imposition of US ideals and the English language. The practice of US colonization of unknown lands or spaces creates this assimilation and cultural domination of people of color such as Latin Americans and their language.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Maria Rodriguez, 03</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Juana, Assistant Professor of English at Bryn Mawr College, “Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces”, C.A.)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This des-tierro is also evident on.........</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">linguistic positionality brought about through displacement. </span>

<span class="UnderlineA">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This form of assimilation and rationalization creates institutional violence in order to bring the alien body, the cultures outside of the White identity, into its “human” rational cognition.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dylan **Rodríguez** – Professor at University of California- Riverside- **2010** [The Terms of Engagement: Warfare, White Locality, and Abolition- online- sage- </span><span style="color: #000099; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://crs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/36/1/151%5D|http://crs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/36/1/151]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Further, **this logic of multiculturalist white supremacist......****that is fundamentally inseparable from white supremacist nation-building.**</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Thus, through a lens of Latinidad and LatCrit, Charles and I affirm the topic as a metaphor: </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Charles and I advocate an exploration beyond the current knowledge production within the debate space and America itself. We begin with a genealogical interrogation of the Latin American Novel and the Spanish language as a way to connect the birth of Western Metaphysics and its rationalization of spaces and cultures in the past and the present.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">AND</span>**</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">The Role of the Ballot is who best deconstructs Western Metaphysics</span>**</span></span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our lens of Latinidad is key to fully understand Western Metaphysics. The discussion of the colonial legacy of South America is key to reveal how the system intersects in order to sustain itself. Our affirmative allows us to shed a much longer narrative on the totality of the system and how it gave birth to Latinos and what we know as Latin America. </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Maria Rodriguez, 03</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Juana, Assistant Professor of English at Bryn Mawr College, “Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces”, C.A.) **__Within Caribbean context the anomalie........__** **__of__** multilingualism, transnational migration, and **__colonial geographic imaginings.__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Latin American Novel was born out of Western Modernity and the exploitation of this system economically, sexually, and racially. It constitutes an Alien paradox to the civil polity of the West which seeks to create a revolutionary deconstruction of this system. A focus on the Latin American Novel is key to the production of a new cognition or ideology beyond our current knowledge production.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Rafael **__Perez-Torres 2007__**, (“Ethnicity, Ethics, and Latino Aesthetics” Ph.D. Stanford Univ., Chicano Cultural Studies and Literature; Contemporary American Literature; Postmodern Theory and Culture.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">On the other side, **__the novel is born in an age.....__****__to imagine not salvation, but resistance.__**</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The interrogation of the Spanish language is key to highlight the relationship between language and colonialism. It allows us to understand how domination through the rationalization of spaces leads to the assimilation of cultures outside the White Civil Polity. This interrogation also reveals the academic imperialism which creates homogenized discourse.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gustavo **__Verdesio__**, “Colonialism Now and Then**__” 2001__** [Colonial Studies, Native American Studies, Pre-Contact Indigenous Societies, Material Culture, Popular Culture, Theory Ph.D. Northwestern University, 1992]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Among the many differences</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">that could be found .......</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __social situations that are the foundation and beginnings of our present.__</span>**





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We advocate a three tier methodology which serves as tools in which activists can create change. Our methodology allows for a spill over into other discursive spaces and creates an overall change in political paradigm.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Maria Rodriguez, 03</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Juana, Assistant Professor of English at Bryn Mawr College, “Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces”, C.A.)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Discursive spaces are not autonomous.......</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">at play: the language of academia itself.</span>__**


=<span style="color: #171212; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Negative</span>= 
=Language K= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">American Nationalism is centrally embedded in space policies, in order to strengthen US security and expand the Western Ideals of discovery and economic prosperity.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Crooks 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Heather R Crooks is an air force captain. She </span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> received a bachelor's degree in 2000 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, and earned a master's degree in 2003 from the Air Force Institute of Technology </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">TRANSATLANTIC RELATIONS: THE ROLE OF NATIONALISM IN MULTINATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION June 2009 [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA501117&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">As previously mentioned, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;">**the most recent U.S.........**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> homeland security, and civil space activities. 62 </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">American nationalism has historically framed the national identity as a white English speaking people, causing the assimilation of different cultures. The use of the United States federal government expands these policies destroying the Latino culture as it rejects the Spanish speakers or just in general other cultures outside the white American.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Juan F. Perea,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Professor of Law, University of Florida. Visiting Professor, Boston College Law School, October</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> '95, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">New York University Law Review</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 28px;">The Framers' white America......populated by Mexican people.</span>


<span class="UnderlineA">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This form of assimilation creates institutional violence in order to bring the alien body into the grasp of white human cognition. – This means endless policing of people of color</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dylan **Rodríguez** – Professor at University of California- Riverside- **2010**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[The Terms of Engagement: Warfare, White Locality, and Abolition- online- sage- </span><span style="color: #000099; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://crs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/36/1/151%5D|http://crs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/36/1/151]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Further, **this logic of multiculturalist white supremacist .......** **inseparable from white supremacist nation-building.** </span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Reject the Affirmative its nationalistic thought- The alternative is an interrogation of the Spanish language as a way to highlight the relationship between language and colonialism. This allows us to understand how domination through nationalist narratives transform and assimilate other cultures. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gustavo **__Verdesio__**, “Colonialism Now and Then**__” 2001__** [Colonial Studies, Native American Studies, Pre-Contact Indigenous Societies, Material Culture, Popular Culture, Theory Ph.D. Northwestern University, 1992]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">__**Among the many differences**__.......</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">__social situations that are the foundation and beginnings of our present.__</span>**


=Latinidad CP= 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">CP Text: The United States Federal Government Should NOT increase its exploration and/or development beyond the Earth’s mesosphere, and instead we as debaters should engage in the a-priori discussion of American colonialism thru a lens of Latinidad.</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Exploring or developing space only re-entrenches us in the idea of bringing unknown Spaces into European cognition, and taking it from its State of Nature into a good civil space of White Polity. This system of rationalizing these lands only continues the antagonism of the Settler/Savage, in which White spaces invade nonwhite ones, conquer them, and discursively remap and control the Space and its inhabitants. This reminds us of how Columbus and the Conquistadors, conquered, murdered and raped the Natives in the name of Discovery. The Latin American represents the remaining effects from 1492 and on, in which we were birthed from the raping of our Native Ancestors.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mills 97</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Charles W., Associate Professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, Chicago, “The Racial Contract”)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Consider the extended body of Leviathan........</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **__of the white polis is demonstrated both in its self-conception and in its actual topography.__** </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">THE RATIONALIZATION AND NORMING OF SPACE DEPUTIZES THE BENIFICIARIES OF WHITENESS WETHER CONSCIOUS OR NOT, LEADINNG TO THE MAGNETIZATION OF BULLETS FOR THE SUBJECTS OF WHITE SUPREMACY LEADING TO ENDLESS MURDER AND SYSTEMATIC DESTRUCTION OF PEOPLE OF COLOR THROUGH THE MATRIX OF VIOLENCE IN ORDER TO KEEP THE COHERENCE OF WHITE CIVIL SOCIETY.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wilderson, 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Frank B, Associate Professor of African American Studies and Drama at the University of California, Irvine, Red, White, & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, C.A.)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It makes no difference in the United States the “casbah”......</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> __“protected” by the police, they are the police.__ </span>**

__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Solvency:</span>**</span>__
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our lens of Latinidad is key to fully understand Western Metaphysics. The discussion of the colonial legacy of South America is key to reveal how the system intersects in order to sustain itself. Our affirmative allows us to shed a much longer narrative on the totality of the system and how it gave birth to Latinos and what we know as Latin America.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Maria Rodriguez, 03</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Juana, Assistant Professor of English at Bryn Mawr College, “Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces”, C.A.) **__Within Caribbean context the anomalies.......__**multilingualism, transnational migration, and**__colonial geographic imaginings.__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">4.) WE ADVOCATE A THREE TIER METHODOLOGY WHICH SERVES AS TOOLS IN WHICH ACTIVISTS CAN CREATE CHANGE. OUR METHODOLOGY ALLOWS FOR A SPILLOVER INTO OTHER DISCURSIVE SPACES AND CREATE AN OVERALL CHANGE.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Maria Rodriguez, 03</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Juana, Assistant Professor of English at Bryn Mawr College, “Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces”, C.A.)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Discursive spaces are not autonomous; ......at play: the language of academia itself.</span>__**

=Queer K= 
**<span style="color: #1b1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Affirmative’s liberal technocratic discourse and perpetuation of policies that continue scientific-based economics are the reason for the failure of feminist movements like those in Latin America.</span>**
<span style="color: #1b1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Verónica **__Montecinos, 2000__** “Feminists and Technocrats in the Democratization of Latin America: A Prolegomenon”</span><span style="color: #1b1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[International Journal of Politics, Culture, and Society, Vol. 15, No. 1, Risks and Rights in the 21st Century: Papers from the Women and Gender in Global Perspectives Program Symposium, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign]</span>
**__<span style="color: #1b1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">An increasingly homogeneous .......</span>__****<span style="color: #1b1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __credentials required to compete successfully for state funding__.</span>**

**<span style="color: #1b1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">This Liberal Democratic technocracy continues the current patriarchal system and existing disadvantages in the participation of women in social and political decision-making.</span>**
<span style="color: #1b1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Verónica **__Montecinos, 2000__** “Feminists and Technocrats in the Democratization of Latin America: A Prolegomenon”[International Journal of Politics, Culture, and Society, Vol. 15, No. 1, Risks and Rights in the 21st Century: Papers from the Women and Gender in Global Perspectives Program Symposium, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign]</span>
<span style="color: #1b1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This literature shows **that __existing democratic theory......__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__and implementation of social, economic, and political reforms__.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The aff’s discoursejustifies infinite warfare, nuclearism, gendered oppression and ecocide.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warren and Cady 96</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Karen professor at Macalester, Duane professor at Hamline, “Bringing peace home: feminism, violence, and nature” Googlebooks)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">To say that patriarchy is a dysfunctional system...... in regional, national, and global contexts</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alternative: We must engage in the examination of Queer theory- Queering Politics goes beyond sexuality; the Queer embraces a pedagogy that challenges heternormativity on all levels, key to democracy, inclusion and social transformation on a global scale. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Andre P. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Grace</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">et al, University of Alberta, **__2004__**__,__ International Journal of Qualitative Studies in Education, Volume 17, No. 3, p. 314 (HARVNS2029) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">From these perspectives, **__Queer pedagogy .......__** **__prior to its achievement’__** (Butler, 1990/1999, p. 21). </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Queerness entails the breaking down of current structures and creating new political resistance, through which we can give new meaning to the spaces controlled by heteronormative constructions.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Maria Rodriguez, 03</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Juana, Assistant Professor of English at Bryn Mawr College, “Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces”, C.A.)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This breaking down of categories......</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__from a prior usage and in the direction of urgent and expanding political purposes.__**</span>

=<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"> </span>=