<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
[[toc]]
=Contact Info= 
We're only posting cites, but if you can't access/find a source we will be happy to email full text.
Aff Cites: email [[mailto:d.schexy@gmail.com|d.schexy@gmail.com]]
Neg Cites: email [[mailto:ianxwren@gmail.com|ianxwren@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==Constellation Affirmative== 
===Plan=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for the Constellation program.**

===Hegemony=== 

**Contention One is Hegemony**

**Fluctuations in the US commitment to human space exploration will eviscerate the US industrial base – it will undermine the US ability to retain human capital that is vital to space access**
**__Slazer, 11__** __– Vice President of the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">_id=e26b4dcb-ee2c-4ada-95fa-b996c307692d</span>

__Space programs are essential to … innovation or inevitably fall behind__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**US dependence on foreign launch services threatens US space access and eviscerates US economic leadership – it will also collapse the industrial base**
**Burton**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Lt Col. USAF [“GLOBALIZED SPACELIFT: A THREAT TO ASSURED ACCESS”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49ad2600-7fa9-4b95-87f2-2a2376985905/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>, liam]</span>

__Control of the space launch … services would be significantly limited.__

**Aerospace industry collapse will be fast and take decades to recover from—we’ve reached the tipping point**
**Albaugh 4/27 --**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and member of the International Academy of Astronautics(4/27/2011 , Jim Albaugh, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace”, Speech to the 10th Annual Aviation Summit US Chamber of Commerce, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/speeches_testimony/]]</span> , FS)</span>

__Today we take America’s industrial …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a U.S. launch vehicle. To me, that’s unconscionable.</span>

**A strong industrial base is the linchpin of US military power, maintaining hegemony is impossible without it**
**National Aerospace Week 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (September 18, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]</span>) National Aerospace Week</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The beginning of a new … </span>__exists to develop new ones.__

**Specifically, key to the rocket fuel industrial base – vital to ICBM modernization**
**Hatch 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (4/22/10, Orin, US Fed News Services, “SEN. HATCH PREDICTS DIRE CONSEQUENCES IF PRESIDENT SCRAPS CONSTELLATION, ARES PROGRAMS”, ProQuest, FS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress should also consider </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">supplier base, specifically material suppliers."</span>

**Maintaining ICBMs is the cornerstone of US deterrence**
**Pagliuso et al 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Lt. Col Commander 319th Missile Squadron (April 2009, “America’s Indispensable ICBM Force”, http://www.au.af.mil/au/aunews/archive/2009/0406/Articles/IndispensableICBMForce.pdf , FS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US nuclear deterrent force … to counter all possible challenges. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Deterrence solves all war.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Moore, 04**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter L. Brown Professor of Law at the University of Virginia School of Law</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John Norton Moore, “Solving the War Puzzle: beyond the democratic peace,” pg 30-31)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As so broadly conceived, </span><span class="Underline">there … aggression in many such settings.</span>


**Heg collapse could result in global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world**
**Kagan, 7 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and … will provide an easier path.</span>

**Restoring Constellation is vital to revitalizing the space industrial base**
**Maser, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Chair of the Corporate Membership Committee American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and President Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne (Jim, Congressional Testimony for House Hearing, A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry 3/30, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aiaa.org/pdf/public/Maser_Congressional_Testimony_30Mar11.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true that we … . But </span>__the clock is ticking.__

===Diplomacy=== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention Two is Diplomacy</span>**

**Obama’s new space exploration strategy won’t meet any goals despite rhetorical support – it will collapse NASA as an agency**
**Friedman, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - recently stepped down after 30 years as Executive Director of The Planetary Society. He continues as Director of the Society's LightSail Program and remains involved in space programs and policy//.// Before co-founding the Society with Carl Sagan and Bruce Murray, Lou was a Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at JPL (Lou, The Space Review, “A dark future for exploration,” 3/7, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1795/1</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I closed my column last … </span>__is headed for exploration oblivion__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Abandoning Constellation sent an international signal that the US will no longer pursue space leadership – restoration is vital to forging international partnership**
**Newton and Griffin ’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– *director for Space Policy in the Center for System Studies at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, former strategist at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, AND **physicist & space engineer, former Administrator of NASA, eminent scholar and professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of Alabama in Huntsville (Elizabeth and Michael, Space Policy, “United States space policy and international partnership” ScienceDirect)**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Will the USA have … , but it makes poor policy.</span>**

Space leadership is vital to resolve international disputes over the use of space and developing cooperation over space debris
Newton and Griffin ’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– *director for Space Policy in the Center for System Studies at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, former strategist at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, AND </span>**physicist & space engineer, former Administrator of NASA, eminent scholar and professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of Alabama in Huntsville (Elizabeth and Michael, Space Policy, “United States space policy and international partnership” ScienceDirect)

__We are a year into the … Oceanographic and Atmospheric Agency__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (NOAA).</span>

**Space debris will destroy early warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war**
**Lewis, 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy (Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>) //DCM//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>//

//**Strong US space leadership is vital to space cooperation with Russia, China, and India– it will spill over into broader areas of cooperation**//
//**Mindell et al ’08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (David, “The Future of Human Spaceflight” Report of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, December 2008, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf]]</span>)</span>//

//__International partnerships in human spaceflight … on human lunar missions after 2020__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//


//**US-Russian relations are at a critical turning point and negative public sentiment risks collapse**//
//**Cohen ’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD in Russian studies from Columbia University, former professor of politics and Russian studies at Princeton University, current professor at New York University, former advisor to President Bush, CBS News consultant, member of the Council on Foreign Relations, (Stephen, “Obama's Russia 'Reset': Another Lost Opportunity?”, June 10, 2011, America-Russia.net, http://www.america-russia.net/eng/face/278185917)</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An enduring existential reality has … role, for better or worse.</span>//

//**US-Russian relations prevent extinction**//
//**Cohen, 2k -** professor of Russian … York University, (Stephen, __Failed Crusade__, p. 196-205)//

//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">These assurances are manifestly untrue … benefits or pay the price.</span>//

//**US-China relations prevent extinction**//
//**McGiffert****‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - McGiffert is the VP and director of Smart Power Initiatives at CSIS. Commission co-chairs William S. Cohen Maurice R. William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense from January 1997 to January 2001. Prior to leading the Department of Defense, he represented Maine in the U.S. Senate from 1979 to 1997 and served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1975 to 1979. Secretary Cohen is a counselor and trustee for CSIS. Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history. “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations” 3/2009 </span>//csis.org/files/media/.../090304_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf//

__U.S.-Chinese ties could have a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">importance of their mutual ties.</span>

**And, India relations key to Asian stability**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard L. </span>**Armitage et al. 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (President, Armitage International, Co-Chair) R. Nicholas Burns (Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy and International Politics, Harvard University, Co-Chair) Richard Fontaine (Senior Fellow, Center for a New American Security) Natural Allies A Blueprint for the Future of U.S.-India Relations http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Natural%20Allies_ArmitageBurnsFontaine.pdf</span>

__A strong U.S.-India strategic partnership …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">stakeholder in the international community. </span>

**Global nuclear war – most probable scenario**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jonathan S. </span>**Landay**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (national security and intelligence correspondent for the Contra Costa Times) March 10, </span>**2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Few if any experts think … , according to the Commerce Department. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Human space flight is necessary for US soft power and international cooperation</span>**
**__Logsdon 7__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - director of the Space … )</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What the above analysis suggests … </span>__United States as a great country__

**Restoring Constellation will restore US space leadership**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schmitt 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Former U.S. Senator, Aerospace consultant … /liberty-and-space-leadership.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In spite of these difficulties, … we wish for our progeny?</span>

**Space policy governs all aspects of foreign policy and diplomacy**
**Stone, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- space policy analyst and strategist who lives near Washington DC (Christopher, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” The Space Review, 3/14, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When it comes to space … </span>__both technological and political example__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>








==Privatization Affirmative== 
===Wake 1AC=== 

**Obama has derailed any funding for a space shuttle replacement—the result is outsourcing to the companies to design and operate launch vehicles. This outsourcing is destined to fail; only a public based initiative is a feasible solution.**
**Young 10** – former Director of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center and President and Chief Operating Officer of Martin Marietta (A. Thomas, TESTIMONY TO THE COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY May 26, 2010 http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/052610_Young.pdf

My judgment is that implementation of the proposed human spaceflight … that road too many times with the same unsuccessful result.

**The privatization of the constellation program is the result of the logic of neoliberalism, which favors blind allegiance to the market, and privatization of nearly all governmental functions.**
R. Thomas **Buffenbarger**, **2010**, International President of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Dear Mr. President,” http://thesent.nl/jQ30I9

At a time when the U.S. economy in mired in the worst … innovative space technologies vital to future economic and national security.

**This privatization of the space program is not an isolated instance, but a manifestation of the ideology of neoliberalism that seeks to eradicate social spending and the public sphere in order to achieve unrestrained capitalism. This produces a new mode of warfare that necessitates continuous disaster, in the name of achieving profit, and economic expansion.**
**Klein 7** – Milibrand Fellow at the London School of Economics (Naomi, “The Shock Doctrine: the Rise of Disaster Capitalism,” p. 11-20, DS)

Friedman's Chicago School movement has been conquering territory around the … companies and their sovereignty to U.S. military bases and green zones.

**Neoliberalism is a logic based upon sacrificial genocide that culminates in collective suicide. This eviscerates democracy, and ensures imperial war. The only choice in the face of neoliberal violence, is to critically demand the end of neoliberalism to ensure true peace.**
**Santos 3** -- Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra, Portugal (Boaventura de Sousa, taught at Yale University, “Collective Suicide?,” [[http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html]], DS)

According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under … imposed by the real axis of evil: neoliberalism plus war.

**The expansion of disaster capitalism will eventually set disasters spinning out of control—the impact is extinction.**
**Cook**, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Windsor, **2006** [Deborah, “Staying Alive: Adorno and Habermas on Self-Preservation under Late Capitalism,” Rethinking Marxism, 18(3):433-447, electronic]

In the passage in Negative Dialectics where he warns against … just the entire species, but all life on the planet.

**Neoliberalism doesn’t just authorize war it creates a new mode of biopolitics based upon the economic viability of populations. This demarcating of populations based upon a politics of disposability reduces all otherized populations into a state of bare life—in which the worst manifestations of the violence 20th century become the norm.**
**Giroux 8** -- The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

The mutually determining forces of every deepening inequality and an … ‘bare life’ is clearly visible in all of these examples.

**Thus, we demand that the United States federal government substantially increase funding for the Constellation program.**

**The privatization of the constellation program will inevitably set the stage for space wars, and will be used as a method to reassert neoliberal hegemony over the whole of life. In the face of this privatization, the plan is a method of using space to better the whole of humanity, rather than the elites of the military industrial complex.**
**Dickens 10** – teaches at the universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK (Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, 1 November 2010, Monthly Review, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end, DS)

Society is increasingly humanizing the cosmos. Satellites have for some … be part of the cosmos without colonizing, owning, or conquering it.

**Conceive of our demand as an occupation of the public debate space in order to challenge the economic calculus of neoliberalism. This creates a rallying point for a movement of movements opposed to neoliberalism, in which all expendable and disposable populations occupy public space, using the plan as a method to challenge biopolitical divisions, and neoliberal rationality to demonstrate our collective vulnerability.**
**Pinkus and Giorgi 6** -- *professor of Italian, French, and comparative literature at USC Assistant Professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature at USC (Karen, Gabriel, “Zones of Exception: Biopolitical territories in the Neoliberal Era,” Muse, DS)

The piquetero movement originating in Argentina during the ’90s, is … which neoliberalism turns “life” into “human life,” and vice versa.

**Our demand is an advance of what we have in common against neoliberal appropriation and competition. This enables a new form of politics based upon the reclaiming of the commons.**
**DeAngelis 9 –** Lecturer university of East London (Massimo, “Obama meets Lenin,” The Commoner.org http://www.commoner.org.uk/?p=80, DS**)**

I believe the key to the current crisis and the key to its .. inclusive, healthy, and convivial, rather than competitive, unjust and blatantly stupid.

**Our demand short circuits the functioning of neoliberalism upon the mirco-level, instead of conceding to negativity we should use this round to create an affirmative Biopolitics that challenges the structure of neoliberal domination.**
**Giroux 8 --** The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

Under the reign of neoliberalism, biopolitical mechanisms extend far beyond … break between what must live and what must die’ (Foucault, 2003, p. 255).

**A failure to challenge the rationales of neoliberalism guarantees a totalitarian politics in which any atrocity against devalued lives, racialized others, and inferior genders is normalized as the natural functioning of the socio-economic order.**
**Giroux 8** -- The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

Foucault is acutely aware that the impoverishment of the social … conception of the political is, at the very least, complicit. (Martin, 2007, p. 141)

===St. Mark's Doubles 1AC=== 
**Obama has derailed any funding for a space shuttle replacement—the result is outsourcing to the companies to design and operate launch vehicles. This outsourcing is destined to fail; only a public based initiative is a feasible solution.**
**Young 10** – former Director of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center and President and Chief Operating Officer of Martin Marietta (A. Thomas, TESTIMONY TO THE COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY May 26, 2010 http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/052610_Young.pdf

My judgment is that implementation of the proposed human spaceflight … that road too many times with the same unsuccessful result.

**The privatization of the constellation program is the result of the logic of neoliberalism, which favors blind allegiance to the market, and privatization of nearly all governmental functions.**
R. Thomas **Buffenbarger**, **2010**, International President of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Dear Mr. President,” http://thesent.nl/jQ30I9

At a time when the U.S. economy in mired in the worst … innovative space technologies vital to future economic and national security.

**This privatization of the space program is not an isolated instance, but a manifestation of the ideology of neoliberalism that seeks to eradicate social spending and the public sphere in order to achieve unrestrained capitalism. This produces a new mode of warfare that necessitates continuous disaster, in the name of achieving profit, and economic expansion.**
**Klein 7** – Milibrand Fellow at the London School of Economics (Naomi, “The Shock Doctrine: the Rise of Disaster Capitalism,” p. 11-20, DS)

Friedman's Chicago School movement has been conquering territory around the … companies and their sovereignty to U.S. military bases and green zones.

**Neoliberalism is a logic based upon sacrificial genocide that culminates in collective suicide. This eviscerates democracy, and ensures imperial war. The only choice in the face of neoliberal violence, is to critically demand the end of neoliberalism to ensure true peace.**
**Santos 3** -- Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra, Portugal (Boaventura de Sousa, taught at Yale University, “Collective Suicide?,” [[http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html]], DS)

According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under … imposed by the real axis of evil: neoliberalism plus war.

**The expansion of disaster capitalism will eventually set disasters spinning out of control—the impact is extinction.**
**Cook**, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Windsor, **2006** [Deborah, “Staying Alive: Adorno and Habermas on Self-Preservation under Late Capitalism,” Rethinking Marxism, 18(3):433-447, electronic]

In the passage in Negative Dialectics where he warns against … just the entire species, but all life on the planet.

**Neoliberalism doesn’t just authorize war it creates a new mode of biopolitics based upon the economic viability of populations. This demarcating of populations based upon a politics of disposability reduces all otherized populations into a state of bare life—in which the worst manifestations of the violence 20th century become the norm.**
**Giroux 8** -- The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

The mutually determining forces of every deepening inequality and an … ‘bare life’ is clearly visible in all of these examples.

**Thus, we demand that the United States federal government substantially increase funding for the Constellation program.**

**The privatization of the constellation program will inevitably set the stage for space wars, and will be used as a method to reassert neoliberal hegemony over the whole of life. In the face of this privatization, the plan is a method of using space to better the whole of humanity, rather than the elites of the military industrial complex.**
**Dickens 10** – teaches at the universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK (Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, 1 November 2010, Monthly Review, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end, DS)

Society is increasingly humanizing the cosmos. Satellites have for some … be part of the cosmos without colonizing, owning, or conquering it.

**Conceive of our demand as an occupation of the public debate space in order to challenge the economic calculus of neoliberalism. This creates a rallying point for a movement of movements opposed to neoliberalism, in which all expendable and disposable populations occupy public space, using the plan as a method to challenge biopolitical divisions, and neoliberal rationality to demonstrate our collective vulnerability.**
**Pinkus and Giorgi 6** -- *professor of Italian, French, and comparative literature at USC Assistant Professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature at USC (Karen, Gabriel, “Zones of Exception: Biopolitical territories in the Neoliberal Era,” Muse, DS)

The piquetero movement originating in Argentina during the ’90s, is … which neoliberalism turns “life” into “human life,” and vice versa.

**Our demand provides a focal point that allows a larger movement resistant to neoliberalism to coalesce.**
<span class="Underline">**Zizek, 98**</span> – PhD, Professor of Philosophy at The European Graduate School
(Slavoj, Journal of Political Ideologies, “For a Leftist Appropriation of the European Legacy,”http://www.lacan.com/zizek-leftist.htm)

Are we then condemned to the …is thus effectively the end of politics proper.

**Our demand short circuits the functioning of neoliberalism upon the mirco-level, instead of conceding to negativity we should use this round to create an affirmative Biopolitics that challenges the structure of neoliberal domination.**
**Giroux 8 --** The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

Under the reign of neoliberalism, biopolitical mechanisms extend far beyond … break between what must live and what must die’ (Foucault, 2003, p. 255).

**A failure to challenge the rationales of neoliberalism guarantees a totalitarian politics in which any atrocity against devalued lives, racialized others, and inferior genders is normalized as the natural functioning of the socio-economic order.**
**Giroux 8** -- The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

Foucault is acutely aware that the impoverishment of the social … conception of the political is, at the very least, complicit. (Martin, 2007, p. 141)

===1AC KCKCC=== 

We added these to the end of the St. Mark's 1AC

**The affirmative is a criticism of neoliberalism, which is an extreme fundamentalist form of capitalism. We are not a criticism of all of capitalism.**
**Klein 7** – Milibrand Fellow at the London School of Economics (Naomi, “The Shock Doctrine: the Rise of Disaster Capitalism,” p. 24-5, DS)

But what of the contemporary … work of remaking the world.

**We have a prior ethical obligation to resist economic exploitation.**
**Tahmasebi 10** – assistant professor in women's studies/humanities at the University of Toronto Scarborough
(Victoria, “Does Levinas justify or transcend liberalism? Levinas on human Liberation”, Philosophy Social CriticismJune 2010 vol. 36no. 5 pg 523-544, DS)

Levinas, in his opposition to … each according to his needs!’.71

===Glenbrooks 1AC=== 

We took out Tahmasebi, and added

**Space comercialization is inevitable the question is do we intervene to make space better. The plan is a method of using space to imagine a social order.**
**__Parker 9__** -- Professor of Culture and Organization at the University of Leicester School of Management (Martin Parker, Space Travel & Culture: from Apollo to space tourism, edited by David Bell and Martin Parker, Available online:[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/sore.2009.57.issue-s1/issuetoc]], The Editorial Board of The Sociological Review, DS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we go back to … </span>__me nostalgic for the future.__

===AT Framework=== 
**Their model of debate produces an ethical detachment that actively fuels the domination of the neoliberal global order. We propose a debate space in which what we say matters, and centered on militant struggle against oppression.**
**Spanos 2004** -- professor SUNY Binghamton (William V., “Email to Joe Miller,” originally posted on cross-x.com and reposted on the 3nr, http://www.the3nr.com/2010/01/17/spanos-on-debate/, DS)

Dear Joe MIller, Yes, the statement about … his neocon policy makers is leading.

**Our interpretation of debate is a speech activity where individuals should be responsible for their convictions. Switch side debate creates a flawed form of education which undermines political change. Divorcing conviction leaves individuals disengaged and distant from the ethical consequences of their advocacy.**
**Greene and Hicks 2005** (Ronald Walter and Darrin; debate legends, LOST CONVICTIONS Debating both sides and the ethical self-fashioning of liberal citizens, Cultural Studies Vol. 19, No. 1 January 2005)

Murphy’s case against the ethics of … power rather than the method of democracy.

===Ks of Politics=== 

**The political spectacle directly trades off with personal agency—the more we engage in it the less we are motivated to effectuate actual structural change**
**Edelman 88** (1988, Murray Edelman, PhD in Political Science from the University of Illinois, former professor at the University of Wisconson-Madison, “Constructing the Political Spectacle”, pg 35-36, IWren)

On occasion news reports and personal experiences … it rationalizes acceptance of the world as it is.

**Their presentation oversimplifies politics—that engenders dogmatism and ignorance that makes rational decisionmaking impossible**
**Edelman 1** (Murray Edelman, PhD in Political Science from the University of Illinois, former professor at the University of Wisconson-Madison, “The Politics of Misinformation”, pg 3-6, IWren)

Virtually all political groups and individuals … self-interest is served by the same version.

===Greece DA to ESA CP @ Berk=== 

**Greek bailout coming now but perception of fiscal responsibility key to pass it—any new spending would derail it**
**Sydney Morning Herald February 20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2012, “Euro zone set to finalise Greek bailout”, [[http://www.smh.com.au/business/world-business/euro-zone-set-to-finalise-greek-bailout-20120220-1thqo.html]], IWren]</span>

__euro zone finance ministers will …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">bailout past sceptical parliaments, though.</span>

**ESA funding includes all member states—the counterplan MANDATES an increase in spending**
**ESA January 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [http://www.esa.int/esaMI/About_ESA/SEMNQ4FVL2F_0.html, IWren]</span>

__ESA’s activities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fall into … on their level of involvement.</span>

**Greek collapse leads to Eurozone panic—creates global depression**
**Financial Times December 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2011, “The terrible consequences of a eurozone collapse”, by William Buiter, chief analyst at citi, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/6cf8ce18-2042-11e1-9878-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1mrqMiR7f|http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/6cf8ce18-2042-11e1-9878-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1mrqMiR7f]], IWren]</span>

__What happens if the euro … ”of Belgium, Austria and France__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==KCKCC Finals Shenanigans== 
===1AC=== 
**Contention One is Inevitable**

**Stuff is inevitable—Thirteen Scenarios**

**Scenario One is Chinese Aerospace Rise**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Multiple factors make Chinese aerospace industry rise inevitable</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cliff, Ohlandt, and Yang, 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger, … specializing in Chinese security studies)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__it is difficult to …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States in imposing restrictions.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Strong Chinese aerospace sector is key to Chinese military modernization – that causes US-Sino regional conflict </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cliff, Ohlandt, and Yang, 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger, … specializing in Chinese security studies)</span>

<span class="Underline">China’s space capabilities have improved … own economic interests is unclear</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Extinction**

**Landay 2000**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Security and Intelligence Correspondent, Top Administration Officials Warn Stakes for U.S. Are High in Asian Conflicts, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, Lexis</span>
Few if any experts think … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to the Commerce Department.</span>

**Scenario Two is Debris**

**Impacts inevitable – space debris traffic is increasing and most debris cannot be detected.**

**David 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - research associate with the Secure World Foundation, winner of the National Space Club Press Award</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, May 09, “Ugly Truth of Space Junk: Orbital Debris Problem to Triple by 2030”, http://www.space.com/11607-space-junk-rising-orbital-debris-levels-2030.html) RA</span>

__"The traffic is increasing. … to the traffic in space."__

**Accumulation of debris has passed the point of no return.**

**David 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - research associate with the Secure World Foundation, winner of the National Space Club Press Award</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, May 09, “Ugly Truth of Space Junk: Orbital Debris Problem to Triple by 2030”, http://www.space.com/11607-space-junk-rising-orbital-debris-levels-2030.html) RA</span>

__The concern over orbital debris …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to a few meters, Kaplan said.</span>

**space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc—leading to all out nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 4(Jeffrey, Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, </span>[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of … </span><span class="underline0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear forces to operate safely</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bostrom 2002</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of … .nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>

<span class="underline0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A much greater existential risk … </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">encounter in the 21st century.</span>

**Scenario Three is Ozone**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The ozone layer is depleting at record levels</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science Daily 11</span>—award-winning website … professionals, government agencies, and educators
(“Record Depletion of Arctic Ozone Layer Causing Increased UV Radiation in Scandinavia,” April 5th,
[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/04/110405102202.htm]])
Over the past few days <span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>, especially for children," Rex recommends.

**Extinction**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kelly, 1990</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Patrick D., J.D. from Harvard and … /vol1/summer/kelly.htm, asb]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">My comments above are a suggestion … haven't done anything about them.</span>

**Scenario Four is Afghan Cargo Airline Oil Prices**

**High oil prices in the long term—we assume your warrants**

**Kaufmann et al 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (October, Robert Kaufmann, professor at Boston University, Pavlos Karadeloglou, works at the External Developments Division European Central Bank, and Filippo di Mauro, works at the External Developments Division European Central Bank, “WILL OIL PRICES DECLINE </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">OVER THE LONG RUN?”, [[http://www.ecb.int/pub/pdf/scpops/ecbocp98.pdf]], pg 4, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are a number of reasons … </span>**__90 range over the long term__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**High Oil Prices kill the Airline Industry**

**Thisdell 11** (2/21/11, Dan Writer for Serious Aviation, Flight Global, “Oil Price Fueling Fear for Airlines” [[http://www.flightglobal.com/articles/2011/02/21/353458/oil-price-fueling-fears-for-airlines.html]])
Vueling chief executive Alex Cruz … capacity growth and raise fares.


**Airlines key to Afghan recovery – collapse Spurs Terrorism**

**Air Transport 11** ( 4/11/11, Airlines that know their stuff, “Cargo Airlines key to rebuilding Afghanistan” [[http://www.arabianaerospace.aero/article.php?section=air-transport&article=cargo-airlines-key-to-rebuilding-afghanistan]]”
__Cargo airlines will play an …__ years as market demand dictates.

**Nuclear terrorism causes extinction**
**Morgan, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)</span>

In a remarkable website on nuclear … blamed on the United States’’ [10].
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Israeli leaders and Zionist supporters have, likewise, stated for years that if Israel were to suffer a nuclear attack, whether from terrorists or a nation state, it would retaliate with the suicidal ‘‘Samson option’’ against all major Muslim cities in the Middle East. Furthermore, the Israeli Samson option would also include attacks on Russia and even ‘‘anti-Semitic’’ European cities [10]. In that case, of course, Russia would retaliate, and the U.S. would then retaliate against Russia. China would probably be involved as well, as thousands, if not tens of thousands, of nuclear warheads, many of them much more powerful than those used at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, would rain upon most of the major cities in the Northern Hemisphere. Afterwards, for years to come, massive radioactive clouds would drift throughout the Earth in the nuclear fallout, bringing death or else radiation disease that would be genetically transmitted to future generations in a nuclear winter that could last as long as a 100 years, taking a savage toll upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well.</span>
And <span class="Underline">what many people fail … and suffering in a nuclear winter</span>.

**Scenario Five is Asteroids**

**An Asteroid collision is 100% certain and could occur at any time**

**VERSCHUUR 1996**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, … </span>__that will determine our fate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**extinction**
**McGUIRE 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Tunguska events pale into … comet heading in our direction. </span>

**Scenario Six is Red Giant**

**Death by a Red Giant is a __…__ – their evidence is hopelessly optimistic**

**Cain 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Fraser Cain is the editor of Universe Today and host of Astronomy Cast podcast with Dr. Pamela L. Gay.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He studied engineering at the University of British Columbia, “Will Earth Survive When the Sun Becomes a Red Giant?,” January 31st, 2008, http://www.universetoday.com/12648/will-earth-survive-when-the-sun-becomes-a-red-giant/, Chetan] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Billions of years in the … </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, and it will spiral inward. </span>

**Scenario Seven is Warming**

**Too late to stop warming**
**CLICK GREEN 1-7-2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk/opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)</span>
__New research indicates the impact … scenarios beginning in 2010__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and in 2100.</span>

**Extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The best estimates for global … social, cultural and political </span><span class="Underline">changes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Scenario Eight is Venezuelan Economics**

**Socialism kills the Venezuelan economy**

**__Rahn ‘7__** Richard W. director general of … .washingtontimes.com/news/2007/jan/21/20070121-102603-4793r/

__The Venezuelan economy will collapse, …__ to have their looting stopped.

**Makes ethnic violence and coercion inevitable**

**__Manwaring ‘5__** Max, MAX G. MANWARING holds … .army.mil/pdffiles/PUB628.pdf

__President Chávez also understands that … of poverty, destabilization, and conflict__.62

**Scenario Nine is Capitalism**

**Human nature causes endless capitalistic wars**

**Batra 7** – Rishee’s dad, professor of economics at SMU
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ravi, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Downfall of Capitalism and Communism: A New Study of History</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pg 50, dml)</span>

__Warfare is a perennial human activity, … of money growth and inflation.__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rishee’s dad is the smartest economist ever</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">FW Weekly 08</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Fort Worth Weekly, written by Kendall Anderson, a Minneapolis-based journalist who has written for Fort Worth Weekly and The Dallas Morning News., “Prophet of Boom (and Bust): Now will they listen to Ravi Batra?”, [[http://archive.fwweekly.com/content.asp?article=7369]], IWren)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The worst economic cycle in … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">political economy and social anthropology. </span>

**Scenario Ten is Iranian Pipeline Economics**

<span class="Underline">**Iran gets the pipeline inevitably—China will join if India backs down**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Blank 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (March 9, Dr. Stephen Blank is a professor at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College, MA and PhD in History from UChicago, specialist in Eurasian energy and author of numerous books on the subject, “China hangs fire on Iran-Pakistan pipeline”, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/LC09Cb01.html]], IWren)</span>

<span class="Underline">Iran recently warned India that … complement China's energy diversification strategy.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Iran regime change coming now but the IPI gives them a lifeline—spurs prolif, terror, and mid east instability.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**IAGS 7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (June 15, Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, “Iran-Pakistan-India Pipeline: A view from Washington”, [[http://www.iags.org/n0507071.htm]], IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In normal times, </span><span class="Underline">a pipeline connecting … </span>subsequently the entire Middle East<span class="Underline">. </span>


**Nuclear Iran would launch an EMP strike on the US—expert consensus, and that kills sewage systems**

**Gingrich 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (November 15, Newt Gingrich, former Speaker of the House, “The Threat of the Current Regime in Iran”, [[http://www.aei.org/speech/23454]], IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, as to capability, in … </span>__and not from a specific country.__

**That’s bigger than a nuclear attack**

**Washington Times 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(November 21, “U.S. seen vulnerable to space ‘pulse’ attack”, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2005/nov/21/20051121-103434-8775r/]], IWren)</span>

__An EMP attack would damage … in our most populous city.__

**Scenario Eleven is Chinese Energy Aggression**

**It’s inevitable—that leads to extinction**

**Chanlett-Avery ‘5**
Emma, Analyst in Asian Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade, 2/8/2005, “Rising Energy Competition and Energy Security in Northeast Asia: Issues for U.S. Policy” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL32466.pdf]]

Casus Belli for Major Conflict? __… for a world war-level conflict. 6__

**Scenario Twelve is Werewolf Attacks**

**They’re inevitable—thank the moon**

__Citizens Association to Blow Up the Moon ‘6__
[[http://boards.theforce.net/your_jedi_council_community/b10008/14643467/p1/]]

__The ancients knew all too …__ end to the Lycanthrope Menace.

**Scenario Thirteen is Fish Prices**

**Fish price rise inevitable—that kills billions**

**Science, 2002**
[11/8/2002. “Poor to Feel Pinch of Rising Fish Prices,” Ebsco]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">TOKYO— The first major attempt … Group on International Agricultural Research.</span>


**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should put a giant kite in space.**

**Contention Two is My Knee Hurts**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our plan is to “Do nothing in the instance of the issues of the 1AC.” The refusal to solve accepts the inevitability of struggle, allowing us to understand pain positively.</span>**

**Nietzsche, ‘78** The anti-christ //Human, All too Human.// Aphorism #284 1878

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The means to real peace</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.— … a cloud—and from up high.</span>

**rejection of chaos constructs an unreal perfect world opposite reality that they order themselves to – this engenders ressentiment. They blame the chaos that is a part of them on their neighbor, and try to eradicated it.**
Paul **Saurette**, PhD in political theory at John Hopkins U, **in 96** "I mistrust all systematizers and avoid them': Nietzshce, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in INternational Relations Theory." Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25 no. 1 page 3-6

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Will to Order and Politics-as-Making The Philosophical Foundation of the Will to Truth/Order •. I mistrust all systematizers and avoid them. A will to a system is a lack .of ! integrity." </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Nietzsche, the philosophical … fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.</span>

=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===Eurocentrism=== 
====1NC==== 


**The affirmative’s knowledge is not innocent—it is based in a milito-strategic Western institutional framework that guarantees the only discourses considered are those that justify the endless destruction of the Other**

<span class="Underline">**Chow 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rey Chow, PhD and Master’s in Modern Thought and Literature from Stanford University, Professor of Literature at Duke University, formerly professor at Brown and UC Irvine, “The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work”, kindle, loc 525-541, IWren) </span>

<span class="Underline">Often </span>under<span class="Underline"> the modest and </span>… <span class="Underline">problem of the vanishing object.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"55</span>

<span class="Underline">**This hierarchal regime is exemplified by the modern nuclear cycle—First World institutions actively legitimize the extermination of the periphery by codifying events like “nuclear war” and “nuclear testing” in manners that obscure more insidious eradicatory intentions**</span>

**Kato 93**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Masahide, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze”, Alternatives, 18:3 [1993:Summer], pg. 347-349, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let us recall our earlier … Nations almost on a daily basis.</span>

**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative’s Eurocentric relation to the indigenous and place ourselves as postcolonial intellectuals—using this position within the academy is key to transforming dominant Western representations that enable oppression—we must throw ourselves unrestrained into a politics that acknowledges the intrinsic value of indigenous cultures and fights without promise of success to preserve it**

**Banerjee 00** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Subhabrata Bobby Banerjee, Professor of Strategic Management and Director, Research at the International Graduate </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">School of Management, University of South Australia, PhD from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, “Whose land is it anyway? National interest, indigenous stakeholders, and colonial discourses”, in Organization & Environment, vol 13 iss 1, proquest, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> One approach is </span>__to … **are important to us****.**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Jacqui Katona</span>

**Eurocentrism makes extinction inevitable by suppressing cultural viewpoints critical to resolve existential threats—only a transmodern alternative that rejects Eurocentrism can solve**

**Dussel 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Enrique, professor of ethics at the Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana in Mexico City. He is the author of The Invention of the Americas (1995), The Underside of Modernity: Apel, Ricoeur, Taylor, and Rorty (1996), Etica de la liberación en la edad de la globalización y de la exclusión (1998; forthcoming in translation from Duke University Press), and Towards an Unknown Marx: A Commentary on the Manuscripts of 1861–63 (2001), “World-System and “Trans”-Modernity”, Nepantla: Views from the South 3.2 221-244, pMuse, IWren] </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Totality's “exteriority” (a metacategory that Marx … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, of their excluded historical unconscious! </span>
====2NC OV==== 

**This creates an academic closure that leads to error replication and overstretch**

**Tuathil 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gearoid O Tuathil, Professor of Government and International Affairs and Director of the Government and International Affairs program at Virginia Tech, PhD in Political Geography from Syracuse, Masters Geography from Illinois Urbana-Champaign, “Thinking Critically About Geopolitics” in “The Geopolitics Reader”, pg. 6, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In distinction to both … 1956, Czechoslovakia in 1968 and Afghanistan in 1979.</span>

**This approach makes extinction inevitable—incorporating indigenous paradigms via the alt solves existential issues**

<span class="Underline">**Bhawuk 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dharm Bhawuk, Professor at the University of Hawaii, Ph. D. in Organizational Behavior & Human Resource Management from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Globalization and indigenous cultures: Homogenization or differentiation?”, in the International Journal of Intercultural Relations, vol 32 iss 4, sciencedirect, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Underline">research method</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> presented in … </span><span class="Underline">defending existing mono-cultural theories.</span>

====A2: FW - Must Be Policy==== 

**More ev—resisting eurocentrism is inherently political—failing to do so engenders backlash and makes extinction inevitable**

**Lander 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Edgardo, professor of social sciences at the Universidad Central de Venezuela in Caracas. He recently compiled La colonialidad del saber: Eurocentrismo y ciencias sociales—Perspectivas latinoamericanas (2000), “Eurocentrism, Modern Knowledges, and the “Natural” Order of Global Capital”, Nepantla: Views from South 3.2 (2002) 245-268, pMuse, IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In recent debates about hegemonic … </span>__transnational capital__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> throughout the world. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Epistemology first—analyzing colonial knowledge flows is a pre-requisite to formulating political solutions—otherwise knowledge just becomes a political weapon**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Anderson 02**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Warwick, Professorial Research Fellow in the Department of History and the Center for Values, Ethics, and the Law in Medicine at the University of Sydney, PhD and Masters from UPenn, “Introduction: Postcolonial Technoscience”, in Social Studies of Science, vol 32 no 5/6, Dec 2002, IWren) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>postcolonial study<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of … </span><span class="Underline">, of science and technology studies.</span>



====A2: Perm==== 

**More evidence—they make indigenous inclusion impossible**

**Mignolo 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Walter D., William H. Wannamaker Distinguished Professor and director of the Center for Global Studies and the Humanities at Duke University. Among his recent publications are The Darker Side of the Renaissance: Literacy, Territoriality, and Colonialization (1995) and Local Histories/Global Designs: Coloniality, Subaltern Knowledges, and Border Thinking (2000). He also edited Capitalismo y geopolítica del conocimiento: La filosofía de la liberación en el debate intellectual contemporaneo (2001) and recently wrote "Rethinking the Colonial Model," in Rethinking Literary History (2001), edited by Linda Hutcheon and Mario Valdés, as well as a commentary to the English translation of José de Acosta's book Natural and Moral History of the Indies., “The Geopolitics of Knowledge and the Colonial Difference”, The South Atlantic Quarterly 101.1 (2002) 57-96, pMuse, IWren]</span>

__It is no longer possible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … , two points should be emphasized. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Remaining within the Western objective paradigm stymies insights gained from indigenous cultures—only a starting point located outside Western rational research can be truly emancipatory**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Bhawuk 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dharm Bhawuk, Professor at the University of Hawaii, Ph. D. in Organizational Behavior & Human Resource Management from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Globalization and indigenous cultures: Homogenization or differentiation?”, in the International Journal of Intercultural Relations, vol 32 iss 4, sciencedirect, IWren)</span>

<span class="Underline">Research has been generally dominated … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">is considered appropriate to science. </span>

====A2: Experts==== 
**Experts are neither objective nor ideologically neutral—structural and institutional factors ensure that the “experts” that rise to prominence are those in the palm of a violent state—failure to criticize the context of expertise only sanitizes Eurocentric, racist discourse—star this card**

**Tuathil 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gearoid O Tuathil, Professor of Government and International Affairs and Director of the Government and International Affairs program at Virginia Tech, PhD in Political Geography from Syracuse, Masters Geography from Illinois Urbana-Champaign, “Thinking Critically About Geopolitics” in “The Geopolitics Reader”, pg. 7-10, IWren) </span>

<span class="Underline">In specifying geopolitics as … kind of </span>challenge and scrutiny<span class="Underline">.</span>

====<span class="Underline">Link -- Heg</span>==== 

**The affirmative’s knowledge is not neutral—it represents the self-sustaining cycle of a binary distinction between self and other, “I” and enemy, coupled with an aggressive foreign policy that does not “know” the world in an intrinsic manner, but in one purely in relation to the Anglocentric subject**

<span class="Underline">**Chow 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rey Chow, PhD and Master’s in Modern Thought and Literature from Stanford University, Professor of Literature at Duke University, formerly professor at Brown and UC Irvine, “The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work”, kindle, loc 209-220, IWren)</span>

<span class="Underline">In terms of knowledge … </span>others who are not like "us."

**We control the need for hegemony—international struggle is just the result of backlash to Eurocentrism**

**Dussel 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Enrique, professor of ethics at the Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana in Mexico City. He is the author of The Invention of the Americas (1995), The Underside of Modernity: Apel, Ricoeur, Taylor, and Rorty (1996), Etica de la liberación en la edad de la globalización y de la exclusión (1998; forthcoming in translation from Duke University Press), and Towards an Unknown Marx: A Commentary on the Manuscripts of 1861–63 (2001), “World-System and “Trans”-Modernity”, Nepantla: Views from the South 3.2 221-244, pMuse, IWren] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Samuel </span>__Huntington, an ideologue … irreversible in humanity's world history!__


**American hegemony is the backbone of Eurocentrism—without dismantling it, cultural enlightenment is impossible**

**Tung-Yi 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2009, Kho Tung-Yi, Singapore citizen who has lived in Asia, Australia, Europe and the United States. He is currently a Researcher in Sociology at the University of Oregon. His interests encompass Global Political Economy, Feminist, and Environmental Issues, he’s also a boss tennis player, in “The Challenge of Eurocentrism: Global Perspectives, Policy, and Prospects” chapter seven “Eurocentrism, Modernity, and the Postcolonial Predicament in East Asia” pg 124-125, IWren]</span>



__In apprehending Eurocentrism__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__some__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for … </span>__undoubtedly heaves with deeper meaning.__


====<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Link -- Environmentalism</span>==== 

**The discourse of environmentalism is inherently Eurocentric—it justifies the dispossession of indigenous lands and stripping of cultural agency to compensate for the excesses created by colonial institutions in the first place**

**Banerjee 00** (Subhabrata Bobby Banerjee, Professor of Strategic Management and Director, Research at the International Graduate
School of Management, University of South Australia, PhD from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, “Whose land is it anyway? National interest, indigenous stakeholders, and colonial discourses”, in Organization & Environment, vol 13 iss 1, proquest, IWren)

__Another discourse that interlocks … and resources of indigenous peoples.__

====Link -- Development==== 

**The discourse of “development” is the legitimizing logic of Western imperialism—it relies on the privileging of explicitly Eurocentric genealogies of history that marginalize indigenous cultures and subject them to domination at the hand of neocolonialism**

**Banerjee 00** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Subhabrata Bobby Banerjee, Professor of Strategic Management and Director, Research at the International Graduate </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">School of Management, University of South Australia, PhD from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, “Whose land is it anyway? National interest, indigenous stakeholders, and colonial discourses”, in Organization & Environment, vol 13 iss 1, proquest, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the earliest times of … </span>__policies of industrialization and modernization__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


====A2: West is Best==== 

<span class="Underline">**Here’s proof—Liberal univeralism is the velvet glove of violent Western practices—the academy is inseparable from a system that seeks to justify mass slaughter in the name of humanity**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Chow 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rey Chow, PhD and Master’s in Modern Thought and Literature from Stanford University, Professor of Literature at Duke University, formerly professor at Brown and UC Irvine, “The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work”, kindle, loc 490-506, IWren) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As in the scenario … </span><span class="Underline">"humane" practices of peacetime learning.</span>

====A2: Falsifiability==== 

**They’ve got it wrong—it’s uncertainty, not fasifiability that has given us the biggest advancements in scientific advancement. Fetishizing quantification only hinders social science. Here’s evidence on that distinction**

<span class="Underline">**Edelman 1**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Murray Edelman, PhD in Political Science from the University of Illinois, former professor at the University of Wisconson-Madison, “The Politics of Misinformation”, pg 26-27, IWren)</span>

__Scholars who think social science … Galileo, Newton, Kepler, and Einstein.__

===Capitalism=== 
====1NC==== 

**The exploration and development of space is smoke screen for the expansion of capitalism, a short-term solution to economic and societal crisis on Earth. The militarization of space leading to space wars over resources and the development of markets in the cosmos is an inevitable consequence of the aff.**
**Dickens 10** -- teaches at the Universities of Brighton and Cambridge (Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, Monthly Review, Vol. 62 No. 6, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end)

Instead of indulging in over-optimistic and fantastic visions, … companies attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”

We usually read specific links here that vary round to round.

**Capitalism is imperialism—it fuels a genocidal foreign policy that threatens global destruction.**
**Foster**, co-editor of Monthly Review, professor of sociology at the University of Oregon, **2k3** [John, “The new Age of Imperialism,” Monthly Review 55.3]

At the same time, it is clear that in the .. its own--we hope not the world's—undoing

**Resisting the economic evaluation of populations is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale while simultaneously anonymizing violence in a way that makes impact calculation impossible.**
**Zizek and Daly 2k4** (Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)

For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot … that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.


**Thus our alternative is an unconditional commitment to the Communist Hypothesis. Every ethical decision – up to the ballot itself – should be infused with all of the significance of humanity’s destiny. The question regarding the plan is “does it confirm or contradict the communist hypothesis.” If we win a link argument, you should reject the affirmative because they reduce life to a barbaric ratrace and stand opposed to universal emancipation.**
Alain **Badiou**, former Chair of Philosophy at École normale supérieure, **2008**. [The Meaning of Sarkozy, pp. 97-103]

I would like to situate the Sarkozy episode, which is … at which we find ourselves in the history of this hypothesis.

====2NC Overview==== 

**The alternative does not abandon space but demands that any attempt at getting there is preceded by a revaluation of values. Establishing critical distance from the ideologies of global capitalism is a necessary prerequisite to an ethical space politics.**
Martin **Parker**, University of Leicester School of Management, **2009**. [“Capitalists in Space,” The Sociological Review, Volume 57, Issue Supplement 1]

Uninvited or not, business interests will continue … An idea that makes me nostalgic for the future.


===Foucault=== 
====1NC==== 

**Space weapons erase contemporary forms of sovereignty, positing all nations as empty shells subject to US domination and all populations as bare life to be managed and assassinated at imperial will**
**Duvall and Havercroft 8** (Raymond Duvall, PhD and Master’s from Northwestern in IR, Professor of Critical International Relations at the University of Minnesota, Jonathan Havercroft, PhD from University of Minnesota, Professor in Political Science at the University of Oklahoma, “Taking sovereignty out of this world: space weapons and empire of the future.”, in Review of International Studies, vol 34, proquest, IWren)

Each of the three forms of space … political killing have important effects – would be an understatement!

**This biopolitical control culminates in extinction**
**Bernayer 90**- Philosophy professor at Boston College =) (James, “MICHAEL FOUCAULT'S FORCE OF FLIGHT: TOWARD AN ETHICS OF THOUGHT”, pp. 141-2 1990)

This capacity of power to conceal itself … our normal philosophical and historical understanding.

**Our alternative is to academically reject the logic of geopolitics at the core of the quest for space dominance—this is critical to open space for interrogation of the socially and historically contingent nature of astropolitical epistemology.**
**MacDonald 07** (October, Fraser MacDonald, PhD and Master’s from Oxford, Lecturer in Human Geography at the University of Edinburgh, “Anti-Astropolitik - outer space and the orbit of geography”, in Progress in Human Geography, vol 31, issue 5, proquest, IWren)

Dolman’s astropolitical project is by no … of Mackinder and Mahan has become formalized.

===Furniture Power @ GBX Dubs=== 
====1NC==== 
**Space and power are inextricably linked—the way we organize and situate ourselves within the classroom affects and is affected by modern power relations**

**Kenkmann 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrea Kenkmann, PhD in philosophy from the University of East Anglia, UK, and has taught at the Universities of East Anglia and Hertfordshire, UK, “Power and Authenticity: Moving From the Classroom to the Museum”, in Adult Education Quarterly, vol 61 no 3, sage, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In a similar way as … </span>__how the use office space____reflects power relations.__

<---INSERT LINK--->

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This biopolitical attempt to optimize life culminates in extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bernayer 90</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Philosophy professor at Boston College =) (James, “MICHAEL FOUCAULT'S FORCE OF FLIGHT: TOWARD AN ETHICS OF THOUGHT”, pp. 141-2 1990) </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This capacity of power to … normal philosophical and historical understanding.</span>__</span>

**Thus, our alternative is to reject—in the emancipatory spirit—the spacial relations embodied by the affirmative in order to open space for a reflexive discussion of power relations**

**This is the critical point of departure for larger discussions of biopolitics—by moving beyond standard metrics like the ballot we can apply reflexive analysis to larger power structures**

**Kenkmann 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrea Kenkmann, PhD in philosophy from the University of East Anglia, UK, and has taught at the Universities of East Anglia and Hertfordshire, UK, “Power and Authenticity: Moving From the Classroom to the Museum”, in Adult Education Quarterly, vol 61 no 3, sage, IWren)</span>

__The aim__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this … the complexity of the reality.</span>

====__<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;">A2: Perm</span>__==== 

**It’s too late—they established themselves as in a position of power—having them change the furniture arrangement now would only reinforce that relationship**

**Kenkmann 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrea Kenkmann, PhD in philosophy from the University of East Anglia, UK, and has taught at the Universities of East Anglia and Hertfordshire, UK, “Power and Authenticity: Moving From the Classroom to the Museum”, in Adult Education Quarterly, vol 61 no 3, sage, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Division of space. </span>__Spatial divisions … that then can be surrendered__

====__Link -- Arranging First__==== 

**Their entrance into the room and arrangement of furniture in the manner they saw fit was not a politically neutral act—it established them as the dominant body in a hierarchial power relationship**

**Kenkmann 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrea Kenkmann, PhD in philosophy from the University of East Anglia, UK, and has taught at the Universities of East Anglia and Hertfordshire, UK, “Power and Authenticity: Moving From the Classroom to the Museum”, in Adult Education Quarterly, vol 61 no 3, sage, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taking ownership of space. As … </span>**__power structure has been established__**__.__

====Link -- Teacher’s Chair/Space==== 

**Seizing the comfy chair or big table represents an establishment of one as the teacher, who has the right to mediate and manipulate the rest in the room at will**

**Kenkmann 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrea Kenkmann, PhD in philosophy from the University of East Anglia, UK, and has taught at the Universities of East Anglia and Hertfordshire, UK, “Power and Authenticity: Moving From the Classroom to the Museum”, in Adult Education Quarterly, vol 61 no 3, sage, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Implicit rules of space. </span>__When … inform our relationships in education.__


==__Disads__== 
===Jobs Politics - Wake=== 
====2NC K2 Econ==== 

**Jobs bill boosts GDP, prevents recession, and creates sustainable growth**

**Bloomberg September 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2011, “Obama Job Plan Would Boost U.S. GDP by Up to 2% Next Year, Economists Say”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/obama-job-plan-would-boost-u-s-gdp-by-up-to-2-next-year-economists-say.html, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President Barack Obama’s $447 billion </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">second half of this year.”</span>

===China Internal Politics=== 
====1NC SPS Unique Link==== 
**China is developing SPS now and it’s key to their space leadership—the plan challenges that—STAR THIS CARD**

**Stone October 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2011, Christopher Stone, (B.A., M.A.) is a space policy analyst and strategist near Washington DC., “National Space Strategy: proactive or reactive?”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1938/1]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout its history, America has … </span>__space exploration and “colonial expansion__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” </span>

====2NC Rare Earth Turn==== 
**Turns the aff—China controls the rare earth elements critical to the space and defense industry**

**Humphries 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [September 30 2010, Mark Humphries, Analyst in Energy Policy at the Congressional Research Service, “Rare Earth Elements: The Global Supply Chain”, [[http://cnie.org/NLE/CRSreports/10Oct/R41347.pdf]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__concentration of production of … **-based satellites and communication systems**__**.**


**Specifically, military systems are vulnerable to supply shortages**

**Humphries 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [September 30 2010, Mark Humphries, Analyst in Energy Policy at the Congressional Research Service, “Rare Earth Elements: The Global Supply Chain”, http://cnie.org/NLE/CRSreports/10Oct/R41347.pdf, IWren] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__primary defense application of … mitigate the potential for shortages__

====2NC UQ==== 
**PLA influence declining now absent leadership crisis**
**Swaine 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [January 6 2012, Michael D Swaine, expert in China and East Asian security studies and a Senior Associate in the Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, PhD and MA from Harvard, “China’s Assertive Behavior Part Three: The Role of the Military in Foreign Policy”, [[http://media.hoover.org/sites/default/files/documents/CLM36MS.pdf]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Within this top leadership … herald a period of leadership instability. </span>

**Chinese space pride high now—that’s key to CCP credibility**

**Houpt October 31**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2011, Danny Houpt, M.A. in Security Studies from Georgetown University where he completed his thesis, “Does China have a Comprehensive, Coordinated, and Consistent Space Policy? Implications for U.S. Policymakers.”, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1, IWren] </span>

__China has successfully completed a number … minds of leaders in Beijing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.8 </span>

**Chinese space pride high now but failures hurt credibility**

**Handberg November 21**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2011, Roger Handberg, Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida, “American human spaceflight and future options, short- and long-term”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1974/1]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Chinese__ __are riding a wave …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">gambit”, The Space Review, January 21, 2008).</span>

====<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC Asia Coop Mod</span>==== 
**Chinese space leadership key to Asian coop**

**Houpt October 31**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2011, Danny Houpt, M.A. in Security Studies from Georgetown University where he completed his thesis, “Does China have a Comprehensive, Coordinated, and Consistent Space Policy? Implications for U.S. Policymakers.”, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1, IWren] </span>

__China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__uses space as a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">oil reserves—Nigeria and Venezuela.”14 </span>

**Nuclear war**

**Cirinicone 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joseph, director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain,” March)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks </span>__would fall quickest … use of a nuclear weapon since 1945__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC A2: Case Solves [CCP]</span>==== 
**CCP only controls broad policy—can’t prevent our specific escalation scenario**
**Swaine 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [January 6 2012, Michael D Swaine, expert in China and East Asian security studies and a Senior Associate in the Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, PhD and MA from Harvard, “China’s Assertive Behavior Part Three: The Role of the Military in Foreign Policy”, [[http://media.hoover.org/sites/default/files/documents/CLM36MS.pdf]], IWren]</span>



__While__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__senior CCP leadership … ” issues of an operational nature.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">31 </span>


===Patent Law DA v. Barstow=== 
====1NC==== 

**Expanding the space industry cripples patent law—creates a race to the bottom and turns the aff**

**Kleiman 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Matthew J Kleiman, Corporate Counsel at the Draper Laboratory in Cambridge, Mass Lecturer on Space Law at Boston University School of Law</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chair at ABA SciTech Space Law Committee, Law Degree from Duke, “Patent rights and flags of convenience in outer space”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1772/1]], IWren]</span>

__Flags of convenience are likely …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">associated with flags of convenience. </span>

**And, IP Law is the biggest internal link to US competition and trade leadership**

**Reuters 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [August 26, “US says protecting IP rights a top trade priority”, [[http://www.theglobalipcenter.com/news/us-says-protecting-ip-rights-top-trade-priority]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. officials on Monday welcomed </span>__a … enforcement of intellectual property rights.__

**US trade leadership key to curb hostile trade blocs and global conflict**

**Bergsten 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [September 27 1997, C. Fred Bergsten, Director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics & former Assistant Secretary for International Affairs at the Treasury Department, “Global Trade and American Politics”, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span>__American leadership has been …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">staying power in other respects.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Counterplans</span>== 
===Cooperation + Bribery CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should promote a cooperative legal framework stressing collaborative space use. The United States federal government should offer a bribe to any non-signatory nations for the purpose of dissuading space warfare.**

**A cooperative framework solves—their own author concludes it dissuades adversaries**

**Rendleman 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James D Rendleman, USAF Colonel (retired), “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, TandF Online, IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By combining and supplementing the … </span>__-made threats or natural hazards.__

**And, bribery solves**

**Rendleman 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James D Rendleman, USAF Colonel (retired), “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, TandF Online, IWren] </span>

__Deterrence by inducing adversary action … of compensation or even bribery.__

===Olympic Diplomacy=== 
====1NC==== 

**Cp text depends on the round, this is usually just read as an additional plank to other soft power/influence advantage counterplans**

**Olympic diplomacy solves—four warrants**

**First is notoriety**
**Cottrell and Nelson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [December 2011, M. Patrick Cottrell, assistant professor of political science at linfield college, Travis Nelson, assistant professor of political science at the university of Wisconsin-Platteville, “Not just the Games? Power, protest and politics at the Olympics”, in European Journal of International Relations, vol 17 n 4, sage, IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When examined in terms of … a major goal of the claimants. </span>

**Second is alliance-forging**
**Cottrell and Nelson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [December 2011, M. Patrick Cottrell, assistant professor of political science at linfield college, Travis Nelson, assistant professor of political science at the university of Wisconsin-Platteville, “Not just the Games? Power, protest and politics at the Olympics”, in European Journal of International Relations, vol 17 n 4, sage, IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__the Olympics can increase … host government or other state.__

**Third is repression limitation**
**Cottrell and Nelson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [December 2011, M. Patrick Cottrell, assistant professor of political science at linfield college, Travis Nelson, assistant professor of political science at the university of Wisconsin-Platteville, “Not just the Games? Power, protest and politics at the Olympics”, in European Journal of International Relations, vol 17 n 4, sage, IWren]</span>

__Third__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and relatedly, </span>__the Olympics …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">forcibly. Softer tactics are required.</span>

**Fourth is common humanitarian ground**
**Cottrell and Nelson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [December 2011, M. Patrick Cottrell, assistant professor of political science at linfield college, Travis Nelson, assistant professor of political science at the university of Wisconsin-Platteville, “Not just the Games? Power, protest and politics at the Olympics”, in European Journal of International Relations, vol 17 n 4, sage, IWren]</span>

__Finally__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and perhaps most importantly</span>__, … relate in their communicative interactions’.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">24 </span>
==Procedurals== 
===Data=== 
====1NC==== 

**Interpretation: Predictive policy-making requires quantitative evidence—As well as analysis of everyday experiences to account for interlocking processes of knowledge and power**

**Broad social science theories are unreliable—new research methodologies are necessary**

**Davies 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Phillip Davies, PhD and Government Chief Social Researcher’s Office - Prime Minister’s Strategy Unit (UK), “Is Evidence-Based Government Possible?”, Jerry Lee Lecture at the Campbell Collaboration Colloquium, IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Proponents of evidence-based policy … research evidence can be established. </span>

**Vote neg on presumption—Relying on flawed knowledge-gathering methodology leads to error replication and turns the aff**

**Davies 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Phillip Davies, PhD and Government Chief Social Researcher’s Office - Prime Minister’s Strategy Unit (UK), “Is Evidence-Based Government Possible?”, Jerry Lee Lecture at the Campbell Collaboration Colloquium, IWren] </span>

__It is sometimes argued …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and Mouth crisis (Royal Society, 2002). </span>

====2NC OV==== 

**More ev— Bad evidence gathering guts solvency**

**AbouZahr 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [October 2011, Carla AbouZahr, Coordinator, Advocacy, Communications and Evaluation, Office of the Executive Director, Family and Community Health, WHO, “Use of statistical data for policy analysis and advocacy: Some lessons learnt and suggestions for action”, [[http://www.unescap.org/stat/meet/data-use-Oct2011/Use-stat-data-for-policy-analysis-advocacy.pdf]], IWren]</span>

__When the evidence base is … and multilayered societies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and systems. </span>

====Solvency Indict==== 

**Solvency evidence is unreliable—without rigorous experimentation and small scale contextual application it’s inconclusive**

**Davies 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Phillip Davies, PhD and Government Chief Social Researcher’s Office - Prime Minister’s Strategy Unit (UK), “Is Evidence-Based Government Possible?”, Jerry Lee Lecture at the Campbell Collaboration Colloquium, IWren]</span>

__Governments__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, are not just … conditions that are more generalisable </span>

====NASA Indict==== 

**NASA policy in particular is flawed—broad-based evidence review is key**

**Davies 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Phillip Davies, PhD and Government Chief Social Researcher’s Office - Prime Minister’s Strategy Unit (UK), “Is Evidence-Based Government Possible?”, Jerry Lee Lecture at the Campbell Collaboration Colloquium, IWren] </span>

__There is another sense in … be developed around sound evidence__

====Single Studies Bad==== 

**Single studies are inherently unreliable and shouldn’t be evaluated—prefer qualified meta analyses**

**Davies 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Phillip Davies, PhD and Government Chief Social Researcher’s Office - Prime Minister’s Strategy Unit (UK), “Is Evidence-Based Government Possible?”, Jerry Lee Lecture at the Campbell Collaboration Colloquium, IWren] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The evidence-based policy … </span>__might work or not work__

====Mindset Shift Key==== 

**Calling for more evidence doesn’t solve the problem—we must change the way we relate science to policy implementation**

**Davies 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Phillip Davies, PhD and Government Chief Social Researcher’s Office - Prime Minister’s Strategy Unit (UK), “Is Evidence-Based Government Possible?”, Jerry Lee Lecture at the Campbell Collaboration Colloquium, IWren] </span>

__A further challenge for social … this is focussed and specific__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

==Case Negs== 
===Solar Sails=== 
====Inherency 1NC==== 
**Demonstration project won’t work—implementing solar sail tech sufficient to solve the advantages requires long-term, slow integration and development with existing NASA missions—anything less makes the project too risky**

**MacDonald and McInnes 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Colin McInnes, Professor of Space Systems Engineering at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Malcom MacDonald, PhD, Aeronautical Engineering, Researcher at the University of Glasgow, “Solar Sail Mission Applications and Future Advancement” in 2nd International Symposiun on Solar Sailing, [[http://strathprints.strath.ac.uk/20194/1/strathprints020194.pdf]], IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__currently identified applications of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of concepts such as SPO.</span>

**This means that small-scale status quo CubeSat development solves the aff—more funding will come inevitably**

**MacDonald and McInnes 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Colin McInnes, Professor of Space Systems Engineering at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Malcom MacDonald, PhD, Aeronautical Engineering, Researcher at the University of Glasgow, “Solar Sail Mission Applications and Future Advancement” in 2nd International Symposiun on Solar Sailing, [[http://strathprints.strath.ac.uk/20194/1/strathprints020194.pdf]], IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Finally, it is of … </span>__progress along its development roadmap.__

====Ext: Small Development Now==== 

**Small scale development exists in the status quo—this is the critical distinction—even if large projects aren’t underway, NASA is still developing small solar sail CubeSats**

**NASA 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (April 26 2011, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, news release “NASA's NanoSail-D Satellite Continues to Slowly De-Orbit Earth's Upper Atmosphere”, [[http://www.nasa.gov/centers/marshall/news/news/releases/2011/11-055.html]], IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> HUNTSVILLE, Ala. – </span>__NASA's nanosatellite …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">influences on satellite orbital re-entry."</span>

**Private groups developing the tech now—will be followed by more development**

**SPACE.COM 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(10 November 2009, “Planetary Society Resurrects Plan to Launch Solar Sail” by Clara Moskowitz, [[http://www.space.com/7507-planetary-society-resurrects-plan-launch-solar-sail.html]], IWren) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The quest to fly the … </span>__out in the solar system.__

**More ev—CubeSat sails already exist, and Japan is already upgrading larger sails**

**NASA 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (January 24 2011, “Solar Sail Stunner”, [[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2011/24jan_solarsail/]], IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Only one spacecraft has … be batting a thousand," says Alhorn. </span>

====Ext: Small Development Solves==== 

**Small scale projects and integration move the technology forward**

**MacDonald and McInnes 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Colin McInnes, Professor of Space Systems Engineering at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Malcom MacDonald, PhD, Aeronautical Engineering, Researcher at the University of Glasgow, “Solar Sail Mission Applications and Future Advancement” in 2nd International Symposiun on Solar Sailing, [[http://strathprints.strath.ac.uk/20194/1/strathprints020194.pdf]], IWren)</span>

__Considering the solar sail application … applications towards the near-term.__

===__Sat Defense__=== 
====__1NC Solvency__==== 
**Defensive measures insufficient—multitude of attack options make perfect defense impossible**
<span class="Underline">**Kleiman and McNeil March 5**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2012, Matthew Kleiman is Corporate Counsel at the Draper Laboratory in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He also teaches space law at Boston University and chairs the Space Law Committee of the American Bar Association’s Section of Science & Technology Law, Sonia McNeil is a law clerk at Draper Laboratory. She is a third-year student at Harvard Law School, an editor of the Harvard National Security Journal, and a Teaching Fellow at Harvard College, “Red lines in outer space”, [[http://thespacereview.com/article/2038/1]], IWren]</span>

__Satellite systems can be protected …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a fundamental strategic objective in space. </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]