=COIN Geography 1AC - Round 4= 
Contention One is Where is Afghanistan?

The current COIN strategy employs biopolitical geographies of Afghanistan, regulating the culture of the country so as to destroy the insecure parts. This is especially bad given the violence against civilians—the “hearts and minds” strategy creates an endless war against those that disagree with US presence.
Fluri 2k10. Jennifer L. Fluri, professor of geography and women's studies at Darmouth College, "Bodies, bombs, and barricades: geographies of conflict and civilian (in)security," 2010 Royal Geographical Society, pg. 1-13, wiley

Home-based comfort and … international civilian counterparts.


COIN expresses the promise of a better way to destroy the enemy—to attempt to know the enemy’s cultural terrain only in order to learn how to destroy them better. COIN is the cultural supplement to the bombs and bullets of brute military force, but it makes war EVEN MORE violent as our enemies are reduced to spaces on a map or coordinates on a grid. 
Anderson prof geography @ U durham 2k11 (Ben, “Population and Affective Perception: Biopolitics and Anticipatory Action in US Counterinsurgency Doctrine” Antipode Vol. 43 No. 2 2011 ISSN 0066-4812, pp 205–236

In December 2007 the US … spatialities of war.

COIN creates an environment of warfare. [[#_GoBack]]COIN creates full spectrum warfare where even our bodies are integrated into militarized geographies.
Anderson prof geography @ U durham 2k11 (Ben, “Population and Affective Perception: Biopolitics and Anticipatory Action in US Counterinsurgency Doctrine” Antipode Vol. 43 No. 2 2011 ISSN 0066-4812, pp 205–236

How does this … dissolve into one another?

The impact is a war on difference—distancing the other from the self via abstract spatialization is a prerequisite to the act of making war.
Gregory prof geography @ U British columbia 2k5 (Derek, “The role of geography in public debate” Eds Alex Murphy Prog Hum Geogr 2005 29: 165)

So, to return to the … progressive human geography.

Acceptance of the militarized geography of COIN renders the “everyday” violence of military geographies invisible. Unless we take accountability for the military’s geography, endless war is inevitable.
Woodward 2k5. Rachel Woodward, reader in geography at the University of Wewcastle 2k5, “From Military Geography to militarism's geographies: disciplinary engagements with the geographies of militarism and military activities” Progress in Humran Geography 29, 6 (2005) pp. 718-740

A final explanation … ignorance, or amnesia. (Sontag, 2003: 102)

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.

Contention Two is Counter-Geography—

Refusing COIN solves—the plan forces us to understand that winning hearts and minds is far more complicated than dominating a population into submission via spatialized warfare. Refusing COIN allows us to rethink our entire spatial conception of what Afghanistan is. 
Fluri 2k10. Jennifer L. Fluri, professor of geography and women's studies at Darmouth College, "Bodies, bombs, and barricades: geographies of conflict and civilian (in)security," 2010 Royal Geographical Society, pg. 1-13, wiley

Male and female … or erase their lives.

COIN efforts define a collective imagination and understanding of physical space of Afghanistan as a violent battlefield. Refusing to think like COIN about Afghanistan redefines our conceptions of Afghanistan and produces non-hegemonic map making. 
Mirzoeff 2k9. Nicholas Mirzoeff, professor of media, culture, and communications at New York University, “War is Culture: Global Counterinsurgency, Visuality, and the Petraeus Doctrine,” The Modern Language Association of America, 124.5, pg. 1-17

Visualization is the key … racialized in theory.

Spatialized myths pervade discussions of Afghan strategy making effective policy making impossible.
Crowe 2k7 (L.A. “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security -Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’" <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]]</span>) 

The historical production … ‘militarization’ discourse/myth.

Finally, space, physical area and place, our understanding and hegemonic interpretation of that space, are co-productive. The way we think about maps and mapping has political effect in so fare as it determines how people act upon the zones of the map we describe—acknowledging that maps are always already positioned to produce certain political actions creates effective resistance to violent mapping.
Kitchen and Dodge 2k7. Rob Kitchen, professor of geography at the National University of Ireland and Martin Dodge, professor of geography at the University of Manchester, “Rethinking Maps” Prog Hum Geogr 2007 31: 331

We think it productive to … questions concerning practice.

=Round 1= 

GDS KL read the Militarism aff on their main season wiki.