[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nanotech 1AC</span>== 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Nanotech - MBA-Advantage 1: Deterrence]]Advantage 1: Deterrence</span>== 

===Space Attacks=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Current vulnerabilities in U</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">S space assets invite attacks from multiple adversaries—a broad deterrence strategy beyond the threat of retaliation is necessary to defend against different military doctrines.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Rendleman 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14.6667px;"> (James, Col in US Air force, Astropolitics 8(220), “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco, JT)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based, … 21st Century adversary attack capabilities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space attacks are inevitable in the status quo because of reliance on space for terrestrial warfare.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 16px; text-align: left;">Smith 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">(M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is a rule in strategy… slowly over time.21</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">40 countries are on the brink of space weapons – the US must act now to guarantee safe access to space and prevent conflict.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Donahue 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Jack, Major in USAF, April, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, accessed: 2 September 2011)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">Currently, the configuration of global space technologies … hazards to other satellites.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 1 is Space Attacks -</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically, China is moving to weaponize space and become a space power. This militarization will be controlled by the PLA.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Eimer, 11/5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(“China's huge leap forward into space threatens US ascendancy over heavens,” By David,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/8872196/Chinas-huge-leap-forward-into-space-threatens-US-ascendancy-over-heavens.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Floating 200 miles above … barriers to any meaningful partnership.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The PLA is more likely to initiate a space attack in a crisis because of miscalculation and instability.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">MacDonald 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Bruce, Sen Dir Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program@U.S. Institute of Peace, May 11, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA,” Testimony before congress, accessed: 5 September 2011, LexisNexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One characteristic of … in the years ahead.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conflict causes a US-China nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Forden 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">,)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States … without a clear military goal.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US China war escalates to extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Cheong 2k</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates … destruction of civilization.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike China—that escalates</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Tellis, 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Ashley, Senior Associate at Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, the growing Chinese … and further misperception.96</span>

=== === 
==Advantage 2: Weaponization== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The deterrent nanotech provides also prevents weaponization of space</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Krepon et al, 11 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February,[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Because the use of … both unwise and unnecessary.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Unchecked, the weaponization of space causes miscalculation leading to nuclear and biological warfare</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Mitchell 1</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Any clear-cut distinction between … military conflict ever seen.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Nanotech - MBA-Advantage 2: Hegemony]]**Advantage 3: Hegemony**</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Multiple threats to US hegemony are coming because of technological gaps – that will destroy space leadership.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eva S. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Jenkins </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3/18/20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">09 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Addressing the Challenges. … overcoming the challenges.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leadership in space is crucial to maintaining hegemony</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Young 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (A. Thomas, chairman of Institute for Defense Analysis, July, “Leadership, Management, and Organization for National Security Space,” accessed: 4 September 2011, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada486551.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, JT)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today, U.S. leadership … space capabilities.</span>

**Nanotech facilitates continued US dominance in space – that’s key to our warfighting capabilities**
Eva S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>3/18/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)
This is a critical juncture in space,...<span style="font-size: 90%;"> aggressive development of nanotechnology-enabled space systems by the U.S. today has the potential to facilitate the nation’s future space viability and dominance in 2035 and beyond.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sustaining US military dominance is key to maintaining heg</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Thayer 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “American Empire: A Debate”, Routledge, pg 43-44)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Another critical … advance common interests.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact is massive transition wars across the globe that lead to extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Brzezinski 5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">History is a record of change, … a secure international environment.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">American leadership solves nuclear wars in every region</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Khalilzad 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Zalmay, previous US ambassador to Afghanistan/Iran/UN now counselor@CSIS, February 8, “The Economy and National Security,” The national Review Online, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=2]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, JT)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We face this domestic challenge … hegemony and aggression.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 4: Economy</span>== 

**Systemic economical problems mean we’re going to enter into another double dip this year.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Business Insider New Year’s Eve</span>
(31 December 2011, ECRI: 'If You Think This Is A Bad Economy, You Haven't Seen Anything Yet,’” accessed: 4 January 2012, LexisNexis, JT)
negative Econ growth will be registered in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2011,... This isn't a normal business cycle.

**Further economic decline causes global war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 9</span> (Walter, US Foreign Policy@Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, February 4, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tnr.com/article/only-makes-you-stronger]]</span>, JT)
So far half-hearted experiments have failed,...if we can't get the world economy back on track we may have to fight.

**Nanotechnology creates a new innovation economy, which is the only way to create long term growth and pull out of the recession**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapira and Porter 9</span> (Phillip, public policy@Georgia Tech, Alan, public policy@Georgia Tech, March 23, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nanotechproject.org/events/archive/shapira/]]</span>, accessed: 4 January 2012, JT)
The current economic downturn highlights the importance,.. including aerospace, construction, electronics, environment, medicine, and security.

==Plan Text== 
**Thus the plan: The United States Department of Defense should substantially increase its development of nanotechnology beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]