Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth
The Racial Contract is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997 </span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract

Nationally, within these racial polities...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">and intracontinental racial exploitation.</span>
Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">BARDNT</span>Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization <span style="font-size: 16px;">1991</span>
Joseph-ordained minister; //“Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge//
//to White America//; p.31-33
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Racism can be expressed with an iron fist...</span> that we are able to see this power at work.

__The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial__

The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CFR 9/25/11</span> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap__the_american__allergy__to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader
NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises on algae ..."We must protect the habitat that sustains us."

Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mooney ’11</span>, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial) 
They’re the conservative white men (CWM) of climate change denial,...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">and various climate denial blogs serve to fan the flames</span>.

Climate denial has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding __crucial__ earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests
Patrick <span style="font-size: 16px;">Gleick 8/31</span>/2011 Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]]</span> [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">By pretending that the science is bad</span>...debate by trying to discredit the science.

The effects of global warming strike at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an __obligation__ to these populations
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">M</span>inority <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">R</span>ights <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">G</span>roups <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">I</span>nternational April <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008</span> [[http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf]]
[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="underline">Climate change is just beginning to be articulated ....</span>responsibility for this than any other nation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Adaptation strategies good and effective earth observation satellites acquire the necessary data.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis et al ’10</span> [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]
<span style="text-align: justify;">Until this year, America’s civil space policies...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">contribute to solving a global problem, and rebuild U.S. leadership.</span></span>
The consequences of this discrimination is equivalent to an ongoing genocide – climate deniers risk the lives of hundreds of millions
Clive <span style="font-size: 16px;">Hamilton</span> November, 16th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2009</span> Hamilton: Denying the coming global holocaust <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crikey.com.au/2009/11/16/hamilton-denying-the-coming-climate-holocaust/]]</span> [Professor of Public Ethics at the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centre_for_Applied_Philosophy_and_Public_Ethics|Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics]]</span> (CAPPE)<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clive_Hamilton#cite_note-CappeBio-0|[1]]]</span> and the Vice-Chancellor's Chair in Public Ethics at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Sturt_University|Charles Sturt University]]</span>.<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clive_Hamilton#cite_note-1|[2]]]</span> He is the Founder and former Executive Director of the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Australia_Institute|The Australia Institute]]</span>. Overseas Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholar and completed his <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doctorate|Doctorate]]</span> at the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institute_of_Development_Studies|Institute of Development Studies]]</span> at the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Sussex|University of Sussex]]</span>. Senior Visiting Fellow of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yale_University|Yale University]]</span>. Professor at Oxford.]
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Climate sceptics resent being called deniers ...know with a high degree of certainty that if we do nothing they will die.</span>

These systematic harms of structural violence must come __before__ linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Abu-Jamal 98</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">We live</span>, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">thermonuclear war</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">or genocide on the</span>weak and <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">poor every year of every decade, throughout the world</span>. [Gilligan, p. 196]
Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MEMMI</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, ... live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

A moral approach is key, traditional technical strategies of risk calculus fail to mobilize action and are racist
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 130 Mkoo)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Risk communication</span> research over the past two decades ...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">environmental risks to these poor, rural audiences.</span> We summarize the lessons learned from both</span>

As a stance against institutional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Vivian and I advocate the following:
Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its earth observation capabilities beyond the earth’s mesosphere.

Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race
The current struggle against global warming is no different – the environmental movement has __exemplified__ modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive
Tim <span style="font-size: 16px;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]]</span> [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]
But <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">as troubling as colorblindness can be</span> ...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> but is to weaken the fight for survival.</span>

Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8</span> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]
[*297] <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Fear of eroding the hierarchies that define race...</span> the predominance of the traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." <span style="color: #0000ff;">n52</span>

Dialogue and communication matters – connecting the risks of climate change to issues of social justice is critical to connect to new constituencies
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 14-16 Mkoo)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The relationship between the climate problem and ...</span> and toward dialogue and engagement.</span>

This shifts the conditions of the debate – current focus in relation to climate change has only dealt with its
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 124-127 Mkoo)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The emerging climate-justice movement shifts the discursive framework ... of ethics, human rights, and social justice.</span></span>

It’s not a question of solvency, but one of __exposition__ – we must __constantly__ discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gore, ’11</span> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]</span>]
Gore: Yeah if Michael Jordan had been covered in the basketball court ...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the same where the moral component is concerned, and where the facts are concerned I think it’s important to get that out there, absolutely.</span>