[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**1AC**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory. We’ll keep the right to clarify. </span>**

**Contention 1 is The Microwave:**

**Warming is real and anthropogenic but reversible if we act now.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pew Center 11</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Pew Center on Global Climate Change, The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is as a non-profit, non-partisan, and independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. The Center engages business leaders, policy makers, and other key decision makers at the international, national, regional, and state levels to advance meaningful, cost-effective climate policy and action, “Climate Change 101: Understanding and Responding to Global Climate Change,” January 2011, PM)</span>

The scientific evidence is unequivocal.... will lessen the magnitude and rate of climate change.”




**Only action now solves future catastrophe**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Antholis and Talbott 10 </span><span class="AuthorCite">– Director and President @ Brookings William Antholis, managing director of the Brookings Institution and a senior fellow in Governance Studies, former director of studies at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, and Strobe Talbott, president of the Brookings Institution, deputy Sec. of State under Clinton, “The Global Warming Tipping Point,” The Globalist, http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=8523</span>

Moreover, we need to start reductions now in order to slow temperature... do not pump CO2 into the atmosphere.



**Scientific consensus goes aff**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">EDF 11</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Environmental Defense Fund, leading national nonprofit organization representing more than 700,000 members. Citing Science and the IPCC, as well as other multinational climate organizations, “Scientific Consensus on the Basic Facts of Global Warming,” AM)</span>

The most respected scientific bodies have stated... The time to startworking on solutions is now.




**Warming causes extinction It’s an __existential__ threat. We’re seeing harsh effects already.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deibel 07</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (, Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007 (Terry L., “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft” pages 397-8)</span>

Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security... to the continued existence of life on this planet.




**We’ll isolate 2 independent scenarios of solving for warming**
**Scenario 1 is the skepticism debate**
**The scientific community is at odds: the inaccuracy of data models have collapsed faith in warming science**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rose 10/30/11</span> (David, 10/30/11, Writer at MailOnline, Scientist who said climate change sceptics had been proved wrong accused of hiding truth by colleague, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2055191/Scientists-said-climate-change-sceptics-proved-wrong-accused-hiding-truth-colleague.html#ixzz1cJEOMxdq)

It was cited uncritically by, among others... I just thought, “Oh my God”.’



**The same has happened to the U.S. govt. No efforts to solve global warming in the squo – Skeptical politicians prevent action**
<span class="AuthorCite">Aaron M. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">McCright and</span><span class="AuthorCite"> Riley E. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Dunlap, 2011</span><span class="AuthorCite">, “The politicization of climate change and polarization in the American public’s views of global warming”, Michigan State University, Pages 157-194</span>

American conservatives champion ideals of individual freedom... This leads to our first two hypotheses.


**Political support is the key internal link to warming**
<span class="AuthorCite">Aaron M. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">McCright and</span><span class="AuthorCite"> Riley E. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Dunlap 11</span><span class="AuthorCite">, 2011, “The politicization of climate change and polarization in the American public’s views of global warming”, Michigan State University, Pages 157-194</span>

In recent decades, ideological and party elites in the United States... House of Representatives expected to be hostile to climate science and steadfastly opposed to climate policies (Goode and Bravender 2010).




**The plan independently solves – provides new objective data, which is key to starting action. NASA’s current satellites aren’t enough**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis et al 2010</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)</span>

Climate change now occupies a central place... but these have been experimental rather than ongoing programs.



**DSCOVR keystone for Earth observation data; it isn’t subject to wear and tear**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Popular Science 11</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Bill Donahue, reporter for Popular Science, April 6, 2011, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite|Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?]]</span>
<span class="AuthorCite">Popular Science http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=1</span>

Since 1999, NASA and NOAA have been calling for an integrated... of our resident star. But DSCOVR remained in storage.



**DSCOVR will verify the cause and reality of global warming; stops the debate in the U.S., which leads to international cooperation to solve warming**
<span class="AuthorCite">Stephen </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Clark 09</span><span class="AuthorCite">, 10/15/09, “Testing, review continue for grounded climate satellite”, http://microhotshops.info/news/n0910/15dscovr/index.html</span>
After being criticized by lawmakers and NASA's inspector general... Congress on the next chapter of DSCOVR's story, whatever that may be, officials said.



**US action is the only way to influence international action**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ivanova* and Esty in 8</span><span class="AuthorCite"> - *Assistant Professor of Government and Environmental Policy at The College of William and Mary and the Director of the Global Environmental Governance Project at the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy, and </span>Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy at Yale University (2008. “ Reclaiming U.S. Leadership in Global Environmental Governance ” Vol 28 No. 2. http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)
In this article, we address these core questions...—even those related to protecting the planet



**Scenario is 2 is Phytoplankton**
**Phytoplankton are dying at an alarming rate. They absorb CO2 and provide oxygen, which is key to planetary life**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Week 10, </span><span class="AuthorCite">newspaper, 8/3/10, “Is Ocean Life being wiped out?”, http://theweek.com/article/index/205607/is-ocean-life-being-wiped-out</span>
They may sit at the bottom of the undersea... absorb the harmful CO2 in our atmosphere.




**Oxygen level in serious decline because phytoplankton levels declining**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tatchell 08</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Peter Tatchell, reporter for the Guardian, August 13, 2008 “The Oxygen Crisis” The Guardian http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/13/carbonemissions.climatechange)</span>
The rise in carbon dioxide emissions is big news... of our species – and, indeed, of all species.




**Further decline of oxygen means extinction**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Aym 10</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Terrence Aym, a reporter for the Los Angeles Sentinentel, citing Ralph Keeling, developer of the Keeling Curve , which measures oxygen in the air "Stunned Scientist Warn World Could Run Out of Breathable Air” Helium http://www.helium.com/items/1965918-keeling-curve-co2-and-loss-of-atmospheric-oxygen</span>
Many ascribe the saurian extinction to... Many experts also agree cockroaches could do well.



**DSCOVR’s L-1 position is unique. L-1 position gives unique view of the earth providing unique data for scientists**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NRC 2007</span><span class="AuthorCite">, “NRC Earth Science Decadal Survey-Mission Concept Earth Sciences from the Astronomer’s Perspective, a Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR)”, www.nswp.gov/lwstrt/mowg_907dscovr.pdf</span>
DSCOVR will have a continuous... on the Earth’s surface.



**DSCOVR provides data of phytoplankton, which is key to stimulating growth**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brand, 2007</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Stewart Brand, founder and editor of the Whole Earth Catalog, president of the Long Now Foundation, co-founder of Global Business Network. December 5, 2007 “Earth Monitoring: Whole Earth comes into focus” Nature http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v450/n7171/full/450797a.html</span>
When DSCOVR, or better<span class="CardRead">, </span>gets installed... meaning of Earth stewardship.



**Phytoplankton growth solves for warming: removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere**
Jef <span style="font-size: 16px;">Huisman and</span> Ben <span style="font-size: 16px;">Sommeijer, April 2006</span>, writers for Ercim News, “Global Warming could Destabilize Plankton in Oceans”, http://www.ercim.eu/publication/Ercim_News/enw65/huisman.html
Plankton Processes <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Plankton</span> plays a key role in the oceans... supported the investigations.


**Contention 3 is Solar Flares:**
**Flares are coming. NASA officials confirm: prefer the evidence from a month ago**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The State Column, December 29, 2011</span>, “Scientists: 2012 solar storms could be unprecedented” http://www.thestatecolumn.com/science/solar-storms-could-be-unprecedented/
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">NASA officials said Wednesday tha</span>t... reports were little more than hype.</span>



**Flares in 2013 specifically are going to cause significant blackouts**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Red Orbit citing Fisher, 2010</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Red Orbit, scientific ejournal citing Richard Fisher, the Science Mission Director for NASA, June 15, 2010 “2013 Solar Storm Could Create Widespread Panic“ Red Orbit http://www.redorbit.com/news/space/1879651/2013_solar_storm_could_create_widespread_panic/ )</span>

NASA has warned that the Earth could... then you can avoid trouble,” he added.




**Solar storms cause global meltdowns- nuclear plants lack sufficient back-up power**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kappenman 1/24/12</span>, John, 1/24/12, [[http://www.linkedin.com/in/johnkappenman|John Kappenman]] is a leading expert on the disastrous consequences a severe geomagnetic storm could have on the electrical infrastructure, http://spectrum.ieee.org/energy/the-smarter-grid/a-perfect-storm-of-planetary-proportions/0/hundreds-of-fukushimas

In <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a massive geomagnetic.... even hundreds of meltdowns.</span>



**The impact is extinction; melted radioactive cores will affect all aspects of human life**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wasserman 2</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (March 22, 2002, Earth Island Journal), http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm)</span>

The intense radioactive heat within... now operating in the United States.

**Other sats are irrelevant, problem remains till today**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Harvard University 10</span><span class="AuthorCite"> [Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]</span>

Continued monitoring of the space environment... The urgency of this directive cannot be overstressed.




**No other satellite matters: ACE replacement is key. ACE is the lynchpin for providing solar storm warning**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Time Magazine September 2011</span>, Bryan Walsh, September 27, 2011, “A Solar Storm Strikes Earth—and Provides a Warning for the Future”, Courtesy of NOAA, ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2011/09/27/a-solar-storm-strikes-earth—and-provides-a-warning-for-the-future/

Report co-author John Kappenmann estimated that... A “Space Katrina” could be inevitable—at the very least we should be able to see it coming.



**DSCOVR provides 1 hour warning**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">National Research Council 07</span><span class="AuthorCite">, “NRC Earth Science Decadal Survey-Mission Concept Earth Sciences from the Astronomer’s Perspective, a Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR)”, www.nswp.gov/lwstrt/mowg_907dscovr.pdf</span>

The Plasma-Mag instruments will contribute... as WIND, IMP-8, and ACE



**Reliable warning systems are key**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA 09</span><span class="AuthorCite">, Dr. Tony Phillips, 1/21/09, “Sever Space Weather-Social and Economic Impacts”, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2009/21jan_severespaceweather</span>

What's the solution? The report ends... to hone their forecasts.


**Contention 3 is Calculus:**
**It’s your job as a policymaker to evaluate the impacts of warming before anything.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Alley ’08</span><span class="AuthorCite"> [RB, Department of Geosciences at Penn State, Mar 28, p. online]</span>

The difficulty of identifying and quantifying... may delay or even avoid crossing of thresholds




**Even 1% risk of our natural impacts justify action -- the consequences are too big.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Strom, 2007</span><span class="AuthorCite"> [Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246]</span>

Keep in mind that the current consequences... The time for action is now.



2 **reasons why nuclear war doesn’t happen**
**1. The Nuclear Taboo is too strong to break**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Quester, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Professor of government and politics at the University of Maryland,</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">2005</span>
<span class="AuthorCite">(George Quester, Professor of government and politics at the University of Maryland, Spring 2005, Naval War College Review, If the Nuclear Taboo gets broken, https://portal.nwc.navy.mil/press/Naval%20War%20College%20Review/2005/Article%20by%20Quester%20Spring%202005.pdf) </span>

One often hears references to a “taboo”... that it simply made no sense to think of even acquiring them<span class="CardRead">. </span>


**2. Nuclear war won’t escalate; the US could disarm any nuclear opponent before they could retaliate**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Liber 6</span>, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, and Press Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania 2006
(Keir Liber, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, and Press Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, Spring 2006, International Security, The End of Mad The Nuclear dimension of US Primacy http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/isec.2006.30.4.7)

For nearly half a century, the world’s... even if it were alerted during a crisis.



**Effects of nuclear war are exaggerated. We indict their fear-mongering authors**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MARTIN 84</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA, SANA UPDATE, MARCH)</span>

Opponents of war, including scientists... thereby greatly extending reserves of food.



**Interdependence checks great power war and miscalc**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deudney et al ‘9</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Daniel, professor of political science at John Hopkins, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of Autocratic Revival,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival, AM)</span>

This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration... revivalists acknowledge.


**Natural impacts like flares, warming and oxygen are the only plausible scenario for extinction–nuclear war would be limited and rational behavior checks escalation.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NYET ‘6</span><span class="AuthorCite"> (Non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter, The Extinction Scale - October 16)</span>

We rate Global Climate Change... incorporate the dangers here.



For more questions e-mail me at: [[mailto:sunny.advani32@gmail.com|sunny.advani32@gmail.com]]
=Negative= 
We don't read Taoism lol


=**Past Neg Round Strategies**= 
=//**USC**//= 

**Round 1 v. Nevada Union HS (Triton Aff)**
1NC- Framework, T, K, Cap good, Heg good
2NC- T, K, Heg good
1NR- Cap Good, Framework
2NR- Framework + T
__Decision__: AFF

**Round 3 v. City Magnets (Mars colonization)**
1NC- XO, ASPEC, Spending, Ozone, Case
2NC- Ozone, Spending, Case
1NR- XO, ASPEC
2NR- ASPEC, Ozone, Case (Heg Turn)
__Decision__: NEG on ASPEC <--- lol

**Round 6 v. Brophy (SPS)**
1NC- LSP CP, Security K, Ozone DA, Debris DA, Case
2NC- LSP CP, Ozone DA, Case
1NR- Debris DA
2NR- LSP CP, Debris DA, Case
__Decision__: AFF

=//**SCU**//= 

**Round 2 v. James Logan (BMD)**
1NC- T-Human, Commissions CP, Spending, Space Mil, Case turns, Solvency
2NC- T, Space Mil, Solvency
1NR- Spending, Case Turns
2NR- T, Space Mil, Spending, Case Turns, Solvency
__Decision__: NEG

**Round 4 v. Sage Ridge (ORS)**
Lay round... doesn't matter
__Decision__: AFF

**Round 5 v. James Logan (Asteroids)**
1NC- T- Human, Extinction Refuge, Deflection DA, Commissions CP, Space Mil, Spending DA, Case (+ Ozone case turn)
2NC- T- Human, Deflection DA, Space Mil, Case
1NR- Extinction Refuge (dropped in 2AC), Spending, Commissions
2NR- T, Extinction Refuge CP, Deflection DA, Spending DA
__Decision__: NEG

=//Gonzaga//= 
**Round 1 v. Green Valley GS** **(Neoliberalism/Occupy Wall Street)**
1NC- Framework/T, Pragmatism K, Space Mil Good, Cap Good
2NC- Framework/T, Cap Good
1NR- Pragmatism K
2NR- Framework/T + Pragmatism K
__Decision__: AFF

**Round 3 v. St. Georges (Shuttles)**
1NC- T- Human, India CP, Commissions CP, PTX, Ozone, Status Gap, Tradeoff, Case
2NC- Commissions, Ozone, Case
1NR- Status Gap, PTX, Case
2NR- Commissions CP, PTX
__Decision__: AFF

**Round 6 v. CK McClatchy (Carbon Nanotubes)**
1NC- DSCOVR CP, T-Human, Security K, Space Mil, Status Gap, Irregular Warfare DA, PTX, case
2NC- Space Mil, Irregular Warfare, case
1NR- PTX, DSCOVR CP, Status Gap
2NR- DSCOVR CP, Space Mil
__Decision:__ AFF

=//Golden Desert//= 
**Round 2 v. Notre Dame (ORS)**
1NC- T-Human, Multilat CP, Space Mil, Taoism K, Heg turns
2NC- Space Mil, Multilat CP, Case
1NR- T-Human
2NR- T-Human
__Decision__: NEG

**Round 4 v. South HS (Lunar Mining)**
1NC- Militarism K, Multilat CP, Space Mil, PTX, Heg
2NC- Space Mil, Multilat CP, Case
1NR- Heg turns
2NR- Multilat CP, Space Mil, Heg Turns
__Decision__: NEG

**Round 4 v. Kent Denver (microsat SSA replacement)**
1NC- T-Human, Space Mil, Multilat CP, Commissions, PTX, Case
2NC- Space Mil, Multilat CP, Case
1NR- PTX, Heg turn
2NR- Space Mil, Case
__Decision__: AFF
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]