=Contention 1: They’re Out There (Not E.T.)= 

**Status-quo NASA programs are insufficient to detect NEO’s with large amount of warning time- expanding survey capacity is key to early discovery of potentially hazardous asteroids.**
**Paton Jan 27, 2012.** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Peter Paton [international pr and strategic advisor]. January 27, 2012. “New Asteroid Detection Systems Needed Now”. The Conservative Papers. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://conservativepapers.com/news/2012/01/27/new-asteroid-detection-system-needed-now/#.T07ERIePVCg|http://conservativepapers.com/news/2012/01/27/new-asteroid-detection-system-needed-now/#.T07ERIePVCg]]</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**__<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">There is an </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">….harbingers of doom.</span>__**</span>


And most recent studies show a high risk of an incoming asteroid
Easterbrook, 8
[Gregg, American writer, lecturer, and a senior editor of The New Republic June 2008, Atlantic Magazine, “ The Sky Is Falling,” [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Breakthrough ideas…. riding on the plane.” </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
The impact is extinction – timeframe is fast and all their impact defense is wrong
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brownfield ‘4 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Once upon a . and its attendant fear.</span>

Even a small impact triggers global panic and nuclear war
Arentz et. al, 10
[ Robert Arentz, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Crucial to the ……..</span><span class="UnderlineBold">catastrophic airburst event.</span>

The time is now – any delay decreases mitigation success and increases the risk that we deflect with nuclear weapons
Arentz et. al, 10
[ Robert Arentz, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]

Derating the Tunguska …..a nuclear option

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(X) - Nuclear deflection fails – guarantees a bigger asteroid impact</span>
O’Neill, 8
[Ian, PhD Solar Physics @ University of Wales - Space Producer for Discovery News, Nov. 27, 2008, “ Apollo Astronaut Highlights Threat of Asteroid Impact,” [[http://www.astroengine.com/2008/11/apollo-astronaut-highlights-threat-of-asteroid-strike/]]]

Unfortunately, the commonly …would be limited.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We need a new approach to the oncoming asteroid – we must consider the economic, political, and socio-cultural ramifications by integrating all of social sciences to save humanity</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 2006 - CARD 1</span>__**(Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

<span class="Underline">The proposal offered </span> ….latter four categories.

Even if the tech fails, astrosociology is critical to the survival of humanity
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 - CARD 2</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even though the …… decisions for us.</span>

Asteroid deflection requires astrosociology – we need to know how to react to the threat
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 - CARD 3</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]]

A. Detection**:** <span class="Underline">Eventually, </span>……characteristic ways of life.

Reducing existential risk __by even a tiny amount__ outweighs __every other impact__ — the math is conclusively on our side.
Nick **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom</span>__**, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>__** (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]], Accessed 07-04-2011)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding probability constant, </span><span class="Underline">…. such an action</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[13]</span>
Err Aff – uncertainty means you should default to worst-case predictions – precautionary principle – it’s try-or-die for the aff
Seamone, 4
[Evan, J.D., University of Iowa College of Law; M.P.P. and B.A., University of California, Los Angeles. Evan Seamone is an attorney and a Judge Advocate in the U.S. Army stationed at Fort Polk, Louisiana, “The Precautionary Principle as the Law of Planetary Defense: Achieving the Mandate to Defend the Earth Against Asteroid and Comet Impacts While There is Still Time,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. Washington: Fall 2004. Vol. 17, Iss. 1; pg. 1, 23 pgs]

Although the topic <span class="UnderlineBold">……..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to mass confusion.26</span>

=Plan= 

Thus the United States federal government should develop and deploy asteroid detection and planetary defense technologies beyond the Earth’s mesosphere with an astrosociological perspective.
=Contention 2: Beyond Hard Science= 

Our speech act is uniquely key – nonscientists are ultimately the ones who will deal with the threat
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 4</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

Despite the widely <span class="Underline">……the natural sciences.</span>

Our demand and action is key to sparking a new world consciousness – our speech act challenges defense and technocratic discourse institutions
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 5</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]]

<span class="Underline">These components exist </span> …..purview of astrosociology.
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The interdisciplinary approach we advocate sparks discussion of cosmic impacts – this is critical to evaluating and planning for the future of humankind</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 6</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

<span class="Underline">Astrosociology is defined ……</span>involvement of astrosociologists<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our demand for a change in societal consciousness would be like the Overview Effect – binding societies and Earth together in human unity. Our position as the USFG is key and the threat of an asteroid solves – no K’s</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 7</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**Positive benefits may ……**</span>head our way.

Our project is key to reinvigorating the public sphere and reenergizing thought and societal consciousness
Gangale and Dudley-Flores, 7
[Thomas, Executive Director, OPS-Alaska ; and Marilyn, CEO/Chief Research Scientist, OPS-Alaska; “The Globalization of Space – The Astrosociological Approach”, Presented at the AIAA SPACE 2007 Conference & Exposition 18 - 20 September 2007, Long Beach, Californi]

**__The citizen space… space-capable civilization.__**
Socio-cultural considerations come first – the neg’s purely body count based logic is flawed
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 8</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

<span class="Underline">The ideal type …… </span>they demand protection<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">social science informs policy analysis</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 9</span>__**(Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

The contribution of <span class="Underline"> ….</span>for the differences.

=**Death Aff**= 
**To the casual debater, there has been a grammatical error occurring from debate to debate.**

**Resolved: The**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**United States federal government**<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>**should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**

**The main focus of the word should is that “should” means to be expected an event will occur.**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">WordNet in ‘97</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Princeton University, 1.6</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Should </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">v 1 : **__be expected …__** had better, ought]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">However if we focus on the actual representation of this context of the word we arrive at the conclusion the affirmative would win every debate round by definition according to this way it is written, and while we are all for winning we are more about debating, thus if you disagree with what I am about to say fill free to vote Aff at anytime.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Now when we focus on the alternative definition of the word we arrive at “should” express a reason for doing something.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">WordNet in ‘97</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Princeton University, 1.6</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Should </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">v 1 : be expected ….to repair bridges” [syn: had better, ought]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And when researching the other definitions of “should” as we love to do, we arrived at not only is should the most important word because it expresses propriety so without the resolution is pointless, but in addition even the authors of dictionaries make reference to the fear of death.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">WEBSTER’S Dictionary 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/should)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">—**__used in auxiliary__**  …after each meal></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **These interpretations are best for debate for a couple of reasons, and these aren’t buzz words so they won’t be spread.**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1) education – We focus on the syntax and grammatical effects of the way dictionaries put together their definitions in addition to the resolution, this should be favored over just reading some T without taking the time to really understand the definition.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2) predictability – at this point it should be obvious this is not a normal aff, we are… I don’t know a minute or two into the affirmative and if they aren’t reaching for a theory or T file that is their fault, don’t hate the players hate the game.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">3) judge intervention – at the end of this debate it should be pretty clear who you are voting for so we stop that too.</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">All of this points us to the conclusion “if the framers of the resolution did not give us reason to carry out the resolution, why should we?”</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">It appears to us that to justify the reason for the resolution one would default to fear of death as a motivator or reason, I mean even our dictionary uses it as an example.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Not to mention at the base of forced motivation is power which is powered by the fear of death.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard ’90</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> (Seduction, pages 47-49)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This is why …..**__question of seduction.__**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, fear of Death is irrational. Death is just a part of life. Death cannot be controlled and there is no way to predict it. And it is life’s irony that when we run from Death we will find it anyway sometime, maybe sooner maybe later.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard explains in 2001 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(//Seduction//, 2001, p. 72-74)</span>
An ellipsis of ….they become seductive.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Plus, when we become fixated on Death we focus more on just surviving day to day instead of living.</span>**
**Baudrillard, ’93** (Jean, //Symbolic Exchange and Death//, there should be page numbers in the text of the card)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">So it is …..**__determined by death__**.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And the exclusion of Death as a part of “normal” life is the root cause of all forms of violence and oppression.</span>**
**Baudrillard, ’93** (Jean, //Symbolic Exchange and Death//, there should be page numbers in the text of the card)
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Racism is modern. ……and of death</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We lack a plan because we lack motivation. We lack motivation because death does not scare us. Death does not scare us because we do not give it the power to do so. </span>**

<span style="vertical-align: top;">**__Because humans are not omniscient the epistemology of this debate should precede everything else, because it is how we understand what is true and what is not. In addition, there is no reason not to believe us unless evidence is provided to prove us wrong.__** </span>
<span style="vertical-align: top;">**__Rand 1990__** (Ayn, Russian-American Philosopher, http://aynrandlexicon.com /lexicon/epistemology.html I[[http://www.aynrandbookstore.com/prodinfo.asp?number=AR21B|ntroduction to Objectivist Epistemology]], 78–79)</span>
<span style="vertical-align: top;">**__Man is neither …consciousness over existence.__**</span>