[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">Contact Info</span>= 

**Email <span style="background-color: initial;">[[mailto:jmill126@gmail.com|jmill126@gmail.com]]</span> for cites.**

**We'll automatically post the 1AC and most 1NC's we read. Any other things specifically requested will be posted.**

=Space Corps Affirmative - Plan Texts/1AC's= 
**WFU Plan: The United States Department of Defense should create a Space Corps.**
**Griffin Plan: The United States Department of Defense should create a Space Corps to maintain and develop space services.**
**Current Plan: The United States Department of Defense should develop a Space Corps.**

==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Griffin/Warner Robins 1AC</span>== 

Advantage 1 – Space Doctrine

**Chinese military modernization creates an environment for inevitable space warfare**
**Blumenthal et al 11** [Dan, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Randall Schriver-deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 2003 to 2005, Mark Stokes- team chief and senior country director for the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Mongolia in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affair, L.C. Russell Hsiao-- editor of China Brief at The Jamestown Foundation from October 2007-July 2011, and Michael Mazza--senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI, “ASIAN ALLIANCES IN THE 21stCENTURY”, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.aei.org/docLib/Asian-Alliances-21st-Century.pdf]]</span>]

__The necessity of re-thinking<span class="Underline">…thinning out U.S. attacks.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**The United States must develop a space doctrine to hedge against the Chinese Space Doctrine**</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">MacDonald 08</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Bruce W. MacDonald Council Special Report No. 38 September 2008 “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Mr. MacDonald holds a BSE from Princeton in aerospace engineering and two master’s degrees <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us]]</span> security/p16707?breadcrumb=%2Fpublication%2Fby_type%2Fspecial_report EL accessed 6/24/2011)</span>




__<span style="color: black;">With China’s demonstration... issue is neede</span>__<span style="color: black;">d</span>

**The Space Corps would be the best model for a United States Space doctrine**
**Moorhead 4** [Richard D, US Army Major, “Will We Need a Space Force?,” MILITARY REVIEW, July/August]

__War in space is inevitable… separate Space Force.__

**A space doctrine sustains military effectiveness and a victory in the inevitable Space War**
**Newberry 97** [Robert, USAF Major, “SPACE DOCTRINE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY,” Air University, March]

The lack of space doctrine… __a war in space__

**We must develop the Space Corps now before China implements contested zones in space – your impact defense doesn’t take contested zones into account**
**Blumenthal et al 11** [Dan, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Randall Schriver-deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 2003 to 2005, Mark Stokes- team chief and senior country director for the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Mongolia in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affair, L.C. Russell Hsiao-- editor of China Brief at The Jamestown Foundation from October 2007-July 2011, and Michael Mazza--senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI, “ASIAN ALLIANCES IN THE 21stCENTURY”, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.aei.org/docLib/Asian-Alliances-21st-Century.pdf]]</span>]

The Cold War-era “hub and spoke”… the hub-and-spoke.

**Chinese control of space would independently destroy global satellites**
**Martel & Yoshihara 3** [William C. Martel, Prof. Nat'l Security Affairs at the Naval War College, and Toshi Yoshihara, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy - Tufts U, research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, "Averting a Sino-U.S. Space Race," Autumn, 2003, The Washington Quarterly, 26:4, pp. 19-35]

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strategists in the…</span>__ __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">their economic well-being</span>__</span>.

<span class="Underline">**Global vulnerability of satellites ensures extinction through nuclear miscalculation**</span>
**Myers, 2008**[lexis Date Accessed: June 23, 2011March 10, 2008 Monday, The International Herald Tribune, Risk of space war: Preparation outruns prevention Steven Lee Myers - The New York Times Media Group]

__It does not take…__ in Colorado Springs.


**Advantage 2: Deterrence**
**The United States will lose military and space superiority – now is key to deterring potential harms**
**Gayl 4 [**Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

As U.S. capabilities to… empowered Space Service.

**And that’s key to cross-domain deterrence**
**Moseley 07** - 18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force [General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” __CSAF White Paper__, 29 Dec 2007, pg. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>//edlee]//

//__No modern war… essential to victory.__//

//**<span style="color: black;">And independently, our space deterrence solves global conflict and strengthens global deterrence</span>**//
//**<span style="color: black;">Morgan 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Forrest E. Morgan, Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. 2010. Page 14-15</span><span style="background-color: initial;">[[@http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf|__http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf__]]</span><span style="color: black;"> DM)</span>//

//Although this assessment… __deterrence and stability.__//

//**Deterrence prevents escalation and solves all impacts**//
//**Gerson & Whiteneck 09** – Research analysts @ Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center, where he focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, and arms control [Michael Gerson (M.A. in International Relations from the University of Chicago) & Daniel Whiteneck, “Deterrence and Influence: The Navy's Role in Preventing War,” __CNA Analysis and Solutions__, March 2009//edlee]

Although implicit or… **__and terminate conflicts.__**

**Finally, put your arms race disads away – history is on our side – the aff will act as a tool for negotiation not weaponization.**
**Gayl 4 [**Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

__The creation of a … our capabilities are real.__

==Michigan RR 1AC - New Advantage== 

**Round 1 - New impact in space doctrine. We took out the Myers/Satellite Vulnerability impact.**

**__Advantage 1 - Space Doctrine__**

And, US satellites are prone to Chinese attacks – recent evidence proves breaches have already occurred. Without a Space Corps, a cyber security attack is inevitable
Sternstein 10/31 [Aliya, “U.S. satellite breaches may be linked to China”, [[http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20111031_9543.php?oref=topstory]]]

__China may have …__with House members.


Continued cyber terrorism will cause nuclear war
Fritz 9
<span style="color: black;">(Jason Fritz, Former Captain, U.S. Army and a writer for the Center for New American Security. Hacking Nuclear Command and Control, International Commission for Non Nuclear Proliferation and Disarmament, July 2009. Pages 1-2)</span>

__All computers …__ control centers directly.

__**New Space Deterrence Advantage**__

Additionally, pursuing a Space Corps is key to situational awareness and global missile defense which solve extinction-sized asteroids, stop the launch of every weapon of mass destruction, deter terrorism, wildfire prolif, and ensure American primacy—funding for space programs is key—else our space primacy collapses and asymmetrical attacks cause devastating nuclear, EMP, and CB strikes as well as space-based power wars as other countries fill the Power Vacuum. Try or die for space deterrence; it solves every impact through interception—star this card the timeframe for action is 2020
IFPA 9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, IFPA’s and services help government policy-makers, military and industry leaders, and the broader public policy communities make informed decisions in a complex and dynamic global environment, the Institute maintains a global network of research advisors and consultants. [Space and Security, A Net Assessment, January, Principal Investigator: Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. P. X–16 [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Space_and_U_S_Security_Net_Assessment_Final_Dec15_08.pdf]]] (leap)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The proliferation of ballistic missiles…operations on another nation’s territory.</span>

Terrorism will go nuclear, sparking global nuclear war
Spiece 6 (Patrick <span class="Heading2Char">Speice</span>, JD Candidate, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February <span class="Heading2Char">2006</span>, Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Terrorist groups could … use of nuclear weapons.</span>

Risk of EMP attack is high-it would knock out US electricity and devastate telecommunications collapsing the global economy
Cooper and Pfaltzgraff 10<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Henry F., was Chief US Negotiator at the Geneva Defense and Space Talks with the Soviet Union (1985-1989) and was appointed the first civilian Stra­tegic Defense Initiative (SDI) director in 1990. Previously he served as Deputy to the Assistant Secretary of Air Force for Research and Devel­opment, with responsibility for Air Force strategic and space systems, He is a member of the Independent Working Group, Dr. Robert L, Jr., is President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies, The Fletcher School, Tufts University. He has advised key of­ficials on military strategy, defense modernization, He has served on the International Security Advisory Board (ISAB), U.S. State Department, Co-Chairman of the Independent Working Group, “Countering the EMP Threat: The Role of Missile Defense”, 2010, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGWhitePaper.pdf]]) np</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the …such an attack.</span>

Impact would be extinction
Witzche 02
[Rolf A. F. Witzsche Economic and Political Researcher and Analyst “Why is the World-Financial and Economic System Crashing? Jan 2002 [[http://www.rolf-witzsche.com/peace/crash/index.html]]]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The currently outstanding …</span>__time to come.__


Additionally an EMP attack would be larger than a nuclear war
<span class="Underline">**IFPA 7** (</span><span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis is an independent, nonpartisan research organization specializing in national security, foreign policy, and defense planning issues, aids senior government policy makers, and industry leaders, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[../../../../AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/Temporary%20Internet%20Files/Low/Content.IE5/AppData/Local/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/Downloads/“Missile%20Defense%20the%20Space%20Relationship,%20&%20the%20Twenty-First%20Century,”%202007%20Report,%20%20http:/www.missilethreat.com/repository/doclib/IWGreport.pdf|“Missile Defense the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century,” 2007 Report, http://www.missilethreat.com/repository/doclib/IWGreport.pdf]]</span><span class="Underline"> DA: 7/5/11, PC) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As noted in …</span>__an EMP attack.__

Biological terrorism causes extinction
Ochs 2
[Richard <span class="Heading2Char">Ochs</span>, Member – Chemical Weapons Working Group, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately, 6-9-<span class="Heading2Char">2002</span>, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons …</span><span class="Style1Char">NOW </span>POSSIBLE.

Close your arms race documents – history is on our side – the aff will act as a tool for negotiation not weaponization.
Gayl 4 [Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

__The creation of …our capabilities are real.__

===Michigan 1AC - New Advantage=== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Advantage 2 – Negation Assets</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">A Space Corps is critical to provide infrastructure for negation assets like directed energy antisatellite weapons – we hold the vital internal link to stopping command, communication and navigation vulnerabilities</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Barber 2 [Norman, “Why Should Space be a Separate Service.” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Norfolk, VA, Joint Forces Staff College, 2002. 17 p., </span>[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA421657&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The 1967 Outer Space … use of space systems.</span>

Stable and secure satellite networks are critical to our military’s ability to project power

Marshall, 2008 (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199

Space assets are …from further research.

Collapse of power projection triggers great power nuclear wars

Zhang and Shi, 2011 (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This does not … of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Additionally, a Space Corps would be able to develop negation assets and communication satellites – this is the key vulnerability of our forces</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Barber 2 [Norman, “Why Should Space be a Separate Service.” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Norfolk, VA, Joint Forces Staff College, 2002. 17 p., </span>[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA421657&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]


<span style="text-decoration: none;">A separate Space …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> during critical times.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">19 </span>

The strength of our forces prevents extinction, the US military has been the greatest source of peace and the strongest correlate to global well-being
Barnett, 11<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies (Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” 3/7, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span></span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is worth first …</span> the geometry to come

This could result in global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world
Kagan, 7<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is a good thing, …will provide an easier path.</span>


Close your arms race documents – history is on our side – the aff will act as a tool for negotiation not weaponization.
Gayl 4 [Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

The creation … capabilities are real.

The Department of Defense is the key agent to establish the Space Corps to spur development and demonstrations
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Bennett, 11 - </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">President and Chairman of the Board of Internet Transactions Transnational, Inc.,co-founded Space Enterprise Consultants- the first consulting firm devoted entirely to commercial space development, co-founded American Rocket Company (James C., Winter 2011, Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space, //The New Atlantis,// </span>[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Aside from …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American practical success.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">A new agency for space is key to solve bad forms weaponization – a space corps would create a teaching opportunity for space weapons</span>
Romberger 7 [Scott, US Air Force Major, “Dawn of the United States Air Force Space Corps,” Air Univeristy, April]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, Major …</span>its advantage in space.


==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Space Corps 2AC - T Space Corps is Development</span>== 
**A space corps has the responsibility for several space development projects**
<span class="Underline">**Rade 2005** (Timothy, US Major in the Air Force, “A Space Corps Structure based on the National Reconnaissance Office Organizational Model,” Air University, April)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Having examined the current.... benefits in more detail.</span>

=Critical Space Shuttle Affirmative= 

==Michigan RR/Michigan 1AC== 
<span class="Underline">We begin the 1AC with a video showing the Challenger Space Shuttle Launch.</span>

**THE VOICE YOU JUST HEARD OF STEPHEN NESBITT, NASA PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER, MADE ONE THING CLEAR – THAT THERE WAS OBVIOUSLY A MAJOR MALFUNCTION – OR WHAT CLAIRE AND I WOULD LIKE TO DESCRIBE AS A MAJOR MALE-FUNCTION. HEGEMONIC MASCULINITY SHOWS UP IN SEVERAL DIFFERENT FACETS OF THE CHALLENGER SHUTTLE – FROM THE FEAR OF LAUNCHING TO TASK ORIENTED HIERARCHY OF NASA TO THE AGGRESSION AND TOUGHNESS THAT DIRECTOR LUCAS PREACHED. CORPORATE MASCULINITY WAS THE CAUSE FOR THIS NATIONAL TRAGEDY.**
**MAIER 97** [Mark is Associate Professor and Program Chair, Leadership & Organization Studies; Director, The Chapman Leadership Project; Director, Chapman Human Diversity Program, Journal of Business Ethics, p. 943–962, 1997. Kluwer Academic Publishers. “Gender Equity, Organizational Transformation and Challenger”]

__The events in the //Challenger// ….__your management hat.”

**CORPORATE MASCULINITY DID NOT STOP IN 1986 – SEVENTEEN YEARS LATER, SPACE SHUTTLE COLUMBIA BROKE UP UPON REENTRY – THE CAUSE OF DISASTER AGAIN HAD TO DEAL WITH MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.**
**CPI 2010** [The Center for Public Integrity is dedicated to producing original, responsible investigative journalism on issues of public concern in the USA and around the world. [[http://www.publicintegrity.org/investigations/broken_government/articles/entry/1027/]]]

<span class="Underline">In February 2003, seven …</span> take corrective action.”


**NORMAL ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR CAUSES GENDER INEQUITY – TO PREVENT FUTURE “CHALLENGER” LAUNCHES, WE MUST ADOPT A LENS OF GENDER EQUITY AND RESHAPE THE MASCULINE BLUEPRINT OF US SPACE POLICY.**
**MAIER 97** [Mark is Associate Professor and Program Chair, Leadership & Organization Studies; Director, The Chapman Leadership Project; Director, Chapman Human Diversity Program, Journal of Business Ethics, p. 943–962, 1997. Kluwer Academic Publishers. “Gender Equity, Organizational Transformation and Challenger”]

__These findings – that…**launched every day.**__


**CORPORATE MASCULINITY IS THE ROOT CAUSE OF EVERY IMPACT**
**MAIER 98** [Maier M, Messerschmidt J. Commonalities, Conflicts and Contradictions in Organizational Masculinities: Exploring the Gendered Genesis of the Challenger Disaster. Canadian Review of Sociology & Anthropology [serial online]. August 1998;35(3):325-344. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed October 6, 2011.]

As <span class="UnderlineBold">the foregoing elaboration …. but to unlearn"</span> (O'Brien, 1995: 158).


**THUS CLAIRE AND I STAND RESOLVED THAT THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD FULLY SUPPORT A HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT PROGRAM IN HONOR OF ROGER BOISJOLY.**

**OUTER SPACE IS INFLUENCED BY THE CURRENT MASCULINE HEGEMONIC NORMS; WE MUST USE DISCOURSE TO CHALLENGE THESE NORMS, AS THEY ARE THE ROOT CAUSE OF ALL VIOLENCE.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GRIFFIN 9</span> (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)

<span class="Underline">Outer space…be explicit'</span> (Butler 2004: 41).
**THE NEG’S “EXPERTS” EMPIRICALLY FAIL AT PREDICTING IMPACTS. BOLD AND IMPROBABLE IMPACT CLAIMS LIKE NUCLEAR WAR SHOULD BE REJECTED IN FAVOR OF LOCAL “CHALLENGER” IMPACTS THAT HAVE BEEN PROVEN TO OCCUR.**

**GUILD 10** (“The Illusion of Punditry”, Gerald, June 25,<span style="color: black;">[[@http://geraldguild.com/blog/2010/06/25/illusion-of-punditry/]]</span>, Gerald Guild is a licensed psychologist, outdoor enthusiast and lover of life)
Have you ever … victimizing ourselves.

**THE “ANY RISK” LOGIC WOULD MAKE ALL DECISION-MAKING IMPOSSIBLE—EVALUATE PROBABILITY OVER MAGNITUDE**

**MESKILL 2009** (David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, <span style="color: black;">[[@http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html%29|http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html)]]</span>
Tom __Friedman's piece today….__ to take action.

**ZERO RISK OF MAJOR WAR.**

**LUFT & KORIN ’09**

[Gal (executive director of Institute for the Analysis of Global Security) & Anne (director of policy and strategic planning at IAGS), Energy Security Challenges for the 21st Century: A Reference Handbook, p. 72-3]
The final and perhaps… from the Earth.

**NORMALITY BIAS CAUSES US TO UNDERESTIMATE THE IMPACT OF DISCRIMINATORY OUTCOMES. THIS JUSTIFIES A FEEDBACK LOOP WHERE WE ACCEPT THE ESTABLISHED ORDER AND TREAT DISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS AS SUITABLE VICTIMS NECESSARY FOR OUR SAFETY.**
Lu-in <span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wang 6</span>**</span>, Professor of Law @ University of Pittsburgh School of Law, 20<span style="font-size: 8pt;">06</span> “Discrimination by Default: How Racism Becomes Routine” Pg 90-97

The Normalcy and Normalization…<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as suitable victims</span>.48

==Space Shuttle 2AC - Framework== 
This is all we read in Round 3...
We solve of all your policymaking / fiat good offense because aff is a prerequisite – only risks increased education
<span class="Underline">**Snider 4** [Alfred C., Assistant Professor of Forensics at the University of Vermont, “Space Utilization as a Subject of Academic Debates”, </span>[[http://er.jsc.nasa.gov/seh/debate.html]]<span class="Underline">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Competitive and in-class … long-term space utilization.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Negative</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Carriers Funding PIC</span>=== 

**The CP diverts money from useless aircraft** **<span style="background-color: #a9da92; color: #222222;">carriers</span> that won’t be used in combat**
Arquilla **8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, The Biggest Boondoggle, Forbes, 12/8, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #3333cc; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.forbes.com/business/forbes/2008/1208/032.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] //jmill//</span>

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Throughout the presidential...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">t</span>**</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">o fight again</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**</span>//


**And that budget is about to go up in FY2012**
//**Fabey 8/11/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, The McGraw Hill, Aviation Week, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #3333cc;">[[@http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=aerospacedaily&id=news/asd/2011/08/11/04.xml&headline=Ford%20Carrier%20Faces%20Cost%20Overruns]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] </span>//jmill <span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> U.S...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">Service (CRS) report.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The president can impound money for national security and divert it to the plan. Only the counterplan can enhance presidential power – Congress won’t backlash, and it’s constitutional</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Brownell 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Roy E. Brownell II, then Attorney – D.C. Office of Muldoon Murphy & Facuette LLP, now Congressional Liaison Officer – USAID, Fall 2001, “The Constitutional Status of the President’s Impoundment of National Security Funds” – Seton Hall Constitutional Journal, p. lexis] In the past, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">National Security Rescission.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Neg Strats</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Griffin</span>=== 
Round 2 v. Wheeler ZK (SPS)
2NR: EU Joint Cooperation CP and Jobs Bill

Round 3 v. Columbus JH (Superfund Site)
2NR: Security K

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Warner Robins</span>=== 
Round 2 v. Roswell UL (Mars Colonization)
2NR: T - Space

Round 3 v. Carrollton MW (Helium 3)
2NR: Privatization CP / Cooperation DA

===Michigan RR=== 
Round 2 v. Lexington FM (ORS)
2NR: Virilio K

Round 4 v. Westminster HX (WAS)
2NR: Delegation CP

Round 6 v. Johns Creek JT (Gender)
2NR: Ban NASA CP, case turns

Round 7 v. Chattahoochee CK (Nanosats)
2NR: India CP, Launch DA

===Michigan=== 
Round 2 v. Berkeley Prep GX (AEHF)
2NR: Carriers Funding PIC

Round 3 v. Glenbrook South KP (Space Guard)
2NR: Carriers Funding PIC / Politics

Round 5 v. Iowa City GV (Asteroid Mining)
2NR: Security K / case args