[[toc]]
=Code of Conduct CP= 

==1nc== 
**Text: The United States federal government should propose a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations that** 
**-bans the use, testing, and development of ASATs** 
**-prohibits deliberate creation of persistent space debris**
**-includes verification, transparency, and enforcement mechanisms**
**The United States federal government should consistently advocate the Code of Conduct through negotiations.** 
**The United States federal government should recognize and admit China as a partner in the International Space Station**

**A code of conduct increases space security**
**Krepon et al, 11** – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Code of Conduct </span>__We view ….. together as a coherent regime.__

**China will agree to the code**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hitchens & Chen 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Theresa Hitchens - president of the Center for Defense Information in Washington, and David Chen - Director of the Center for Defense Information (June, “Forging a Sino-US ‘grand bargain’ in space,” Science Direct, www.elsevier.com/locate/spacepol)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, in the matter of dissuasion, ….. </span> __in negotiations with the Chinese.__ 

==2NC CP Solvency== 

**There’s a key framing argument – Obama makes cooperation with China possible** 
**Zhang, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University (March/April, Baohui, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, JSTOR)</span>

__Once the above measures …..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and realization of permanent peace.</span>

**China says yes – their decisions are based off US policy and pursuing a less aggressive strategy would reverse their posture**
**Manzo, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - CDI Research Assistant (Vince, “U.S. Policy Brief: The Need for a Strategic Dialogue with China,” 8/28, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/StrategicDialoguePolicy.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Four Perspectives on China’s ASAT Test </span>__…..__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">indirect consequences of their choices. </span>



**Countries are weaponizing in response to the US – reversal of our posture creates effective arms control**
**Milowicki and Johnson-Freese, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- * Director of Aviation Programs @ the US Naval War College, M.A. in National Security and Strategic Studies @ the US Naval War College B.S. in Aerospace Engineering @ the US Naval Academy, **Professor of National Security Affairs @ the US Naval War College, teaches a course on Space & Security @ Harvard, Adjunct Professor @ The Watson Institute, Brown University, former Director of the Center for Space Policy & Law @ the University of Central Florida, Ph.D. [Gene, Joan, Astropolitics, “Strategic Choices: Examining the United States Military Response to the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test” January, Volume 6, Issue 1, informaworld]</span>

__The U.S. defense establishment's reaction ….. strategy will not go unchallenged__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>[[http://www.informaworld.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/smpp/section?content=a791222676&fulltext=713240928#EN0035|__35__]]


==AT: CP kills heg== 

**The counterplan provides an immediate signal of reassurance that boosts U.S. hegemony and legitimacy**
**<span style="color: black;">Gallagher and Steinbruner 8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - * Associate Director for Research at the Center for International and Security Studies AND ** Professor of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">at Maryland (Nancy and John, Reconsidering the Rules for Space Security, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/spacesecuritymonograph.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the absence of some …… under the conditions of globalization. </span>

==AT: CP Links to Weaponization== 


**Verification measures solve the problems with the X-37B**
**Axe 10 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">independent military correspondent and writer for The Diplomat (7/29/2010, David, “US Starting Asia Space Race?”, The Diplomat, http://the-diplomat.com/2010/07/29/us-starting-asia-space-race/) MGM</span>

__To prevent the X-37 from ……__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> utility of the new US craft. </span>


**Engaging in dialogue reduces fears of weaponization**
**<span style="color: black;">Blazejewski, 8 – </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">master’s degree in public a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ff</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">airs from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University and JD from the New York University School of Law. (Kenneth, “Space Weaponization and US-China Relations,” STRATEGIC STUDIES QUARTERLY SPRING 2008)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">The US refusal to engage ….. space use and space debris</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


=Commissions CP= 

==1nc== 

**The United States Congress should establish an independent agency empowered by the executive to submit to Congress recommendations for space policy as per Newton and Atkins. Congress and the executive will delegate authority to the agency to create recommendations and allow 90 days to pass legislation maintaining existing legislative baselines. If Congress does not pass legislation revising the Commission’s recommendations within the specified period, those recommendations will enter into legal force. The Commission should recommend to Congress that <<<<<Insert Plan Here>>>>>**




**The CP solves --- avoids policy churn that talks solvency**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newton and Atkins ‘10</span>** (Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, and Chuck, former Chief of Staff-House Science Committee, Take the Chaos Out of U.S. Space Policy, 10 May, 2010, [[http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html]])



**__Policy stability is not an …..__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> long-term benefit of the nation.</span>



==2nc solvency== 



**The CPs 90 day limit ensures passage** 

**North ‘10** (David, Center for Immigration Studies Fellow, August, h[[ttp://www.cis.org/indirect-immigration-policy-m]]aking)



**__HR 4321__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is full of ….. in the usual manner, </span>**__directly__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.21</span>



**Congress will avoid debate or vote on repeal – //__even if they oppose the commissions recommendations__//**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schoenbrod</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof @ New York Law School, CARDOZO LAW REVIEW [Vol. 20:731 19</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">], </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.constitution.org/ad_state/schoenbrod.htm#*|http://www.constitution.org/ad_state/schoenbrod.htm#*]]</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress Can Repeal Agency Laws …..</span><span class="underline0"> do to garlic — </span><span class="Emphasis2">they </span>flee<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[53</span>



**The act of delegation alone means Congress won’t say no**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schoenbrod ’93</span>** (David,- prof of Law @ NY Law School “Power Without Responsibility” Pg. 60)



**__Once an agency makes a …..__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to most of the people. </span>



==AT: Perms== 



**They Sever USFG - Term “The United States” federal government requires collective action – textually and functionally distinct from action by a single branch -**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller, ’86</span>** (Congress, the Constitution, and First Use of Nuclear Weapons, Arthur, The Review of Politics, Vol. 48, No. 3 (Summer), pp. 424-455

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Three other points merit mention </span><span class="underline0">….. </span>is part of an indivisible whole<span class="underline0">. </span>



**Should Requires certainty and immediacy**
**Summer, ’94** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Justice, Oklahoma Supreme Court, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14)</span>

__The legal question to be …..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span>





==AT: Commisions CPs Bad== 



**It’s vital to understanding how policies are formulated --- also proves it’s predictable**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwalbe ’03 </span>**(Steve,- PhD Public Policy from Auburn, former professor at the Air War College and Col. in the USAF “Independent Commissions: Their History, Utilization and Effectiveness”) 



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FIFTH BRANCH </span>Many analysts characterize <span class="Underline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also learn from one another.27 </span>



**This type of education outweighs**

**Elmore ’80** (Prof. Public Affairs at University of Washington, PolySci Quarterly 79-80, p. 605)

The emergence of implementation as …..  **__in the realm of implementation.__** 



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Real world and in literature</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Meissner et al '09** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Doris, former commissioner @ INS, senior fellow @ Migration Policy Institute, former senior associate @ Carnegie Endowment, May, http://www.migrationpolicy.org/pubs/StandingCommission_May09.pdf)</span>

<span class="underline0">The </span>concept of a Standing Commission…..gaining new attention from policymakers.