[[toc]]
=ORS Negative= 
==1NC- T== 
Interpretation: ‘of space’ indicates that space must be the object of exploration or development – it is different from activities that occur ‘in’ space
**Bockstiegel 95 –**Ph D., Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)
The official title of the Outer Space Treaty (‘OST’) mentions both exploration and use of outer space as the two ‘activities of States’ which one has to take into account and which are therefore covered by the Outer Space Treaty. The same pair of terms appears again in the Preamble as well as further articles such as Article I and Article III of the Treaty. Other articles and other space treaties either take up only one of these two terms or use a general terms such as ‘activities in outer space’ (Art. VI, OST) or generally deal with ‘objects launched into outer space’ (Art. VII, Art. VIII, OST and the Registration Convention) or ‘space objects’ (Liability Convention) or finally ‘activities of States on the Moon and other celestial bodies’ (Moon Treaty). At first sight the distinction between exploration and use may seem sufficiently clear. Indeed in connection with most space activities there may be little doubt which of these two terms is applicable. First doubts appear, however, because the Outer Space Treaty speaks of exploration ‘of outer space’. This wording could be interpreted to mean that space must be the object of exploration. The consequence would be that the great part of research which has to take place ‘in space’ in view of the specific physical conditions there, but which has as its object specific materials, would not be covered and might only be considered as ‘use’ of space.
Violation- the plan increases exploration or development in space, not of space.
T is a voter-
Limits- they justify any af that moves earth based activity, cancer research, thousands of weapons programs, communications systems etc would all be topical. Topic explosion, makes strategy impossible reducing clash, which is a prerequisite to topic knowledge and critical thinking
==1NC- DA== 
Cooperation high – US and China are creating CBMs, internal review
Hong 8/3<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 (Li, secretary-general of China Arms Control and Disarmament Association. “Make outer space safe for all” http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2011-08/03/content_13037539.htm) MFR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gregory L. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Schulte</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, US </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">deputy assistant secretary of defense</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for space policy, recently </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">told reporters</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates has </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">proposed to establish </span>//**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">regular dialogue</span>**//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> with China</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in an effort </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">to create rules and reduce the risk of accidents and miscalculations in outer space. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Security in outer space has long been an issue of concern in the global arms control process. Since the late 1990s, China, Russia and some other countries have urged the international community to hold multilateral dialogue to prevent weaponization of outer space, and put forward specific proposals for concluding an international treaty to prevent an arms race in outer space. But the US has been using every reason to refuse negotiating such a treaty for fear that it may restrict it from maintaining and developing its outer space anti-missile system and compromise its space military technology. Some US conservatives are convinced that the US can use its system and resources to maintain its dominance in space and it is unnecessary for it to hold talks with other countries, because they are quite inferior in terms of using space for military purposes. Hence, the US has been emphasizing freedom in the use of outer space. In essence, it wants to establish its hegemony over outer space. During the first decade of this century, China achieved many a breakthrough in outer space technology such as launching manned space flights, performing spacewalk, establishing the Beidou navigation system, and conducting anti-satellite and anti-ballistic missile tests. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Stung by the financial crisis, the US</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">has been forced to restrict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">development of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">outer space technology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and end its space shuttle program. These can be seen as a setback for US space technology development. More importantly, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the US has realized</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">its advantage</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in outer space </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">is facing serious challenges, and the gap</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> between it and other countries </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">is narrowing</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This can mean only one thing: </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the US has to change its outer space security policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The US</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">issued the National Space Policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and National Security Space Policy. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Both emphasize</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> space technology </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">cooperation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with its allies and dialogue with Russia, China and other countries </span>//**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">to prevent "irresponsible" acts in space</span>**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But it should be noted that the US seeks to cooperate with its allies to integrate and use their resources, which would make up for its lack of investment and help it retain its leadership in space technology. The talks it wants would be focused on its two potential competitors, Russia and China, to regulate and constrain their development and prevent them from challenging US hegemony in space. This is typical Cold War mentality. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The US' eagerness to establish dialogue with China reflects its uncertainty over space security challenges. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Until now, international laws and rules of conduct have been laid out on navigation and traffic on land and sea, and in the air. But </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">since human activities in space are becoming</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> increasingly </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">frequent, it is in the interest of all</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> countries </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">to establish a new framework of international</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> laws on and </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">norms for the use of outer space. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">It is thus incumbent on all countries to hold consultations and discussions to eliminate debris from space, prevent satellite collisions, and ensure reasonable allocation of resources and establishment of a code of conduct. And it is absolutely necessary that the needs and concerns of all countries using space be considered in full. It is also necessary to guarantee universal participation and consensus through consultations while formulating space norms. In this sense, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the US' willingness to talk with Russia and China is welcome</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">. But the US should recognize that talks on space security are related to the interests of all countries and the formulation of international laws and rules of conduct should not be monopolized by some powers. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The plan reverses that strategy – shatters cooperation</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sabathier et. al 6</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a given nation in that it tends to increase political sustainability. Within the United States, a program is made safer from cancellation to the extent that Congress and the administration are not willing to break international agreements. Indeed, the integration of Russia into the ISS program may well have saved the program from cancellation (consider that the year before Russia was introduced as a partner, the ISS was saved by one vote in Congress). Once cooperation has commenced, canceling a program becomes inconsistent with political sustainability as long as the utility cost associated with the loss of diplomatic benefits and the negative effects on reputation of terminating an international agreement is larger in magnitude than the utility cost that must be paid to maintain the system. In the case of the ISS, international cooperation does provide a rationale for sustaining the pro-gram, because canceling the program would result in a net loss in utility. The corollary to this is that there is a high cost to be paid by any nation that chooses to unilaterally withdraw from an existing cooperative endeavor. This cost comes in the form of damage to the departing nation’s reputation or credibility. In general, </span>any unilateral action sends a signal that the actor is an unpredictable and therefore an unreliable and possibly disrespectful partner. This tends to sabotage the possibility of future cooperation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As such, </span>there is a long-term benefit to maintaining cooperation, even when the immediate cost may seem to call for terminating it<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>If cooperation has never occurred<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as is the case be-tween China and the United States), </span>the advent of cooperation is a significant event<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, likely </span>delivering a lot of diplomatic utility.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> On the other hand, </span>if cooperation is the norm<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as is the case between Canada and the United States), </span>it is to be expected. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The diplomatic utility of maintaining this cooperation is often not recognized. Nevertheless, </span>the diplomatic utility cost of terminating this cooperation is large, because it would alienate a key ally<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If it were necessary to cease cooperation, a mutual choice to do so would likely mitigate many of the negative reputation effects, because there would be no unilateral actor to whom one could assign blame. Indeed, if both parties choose to cease cooperat-ing simultaneously, this would mitigate the negative-reputation effect—rather, there would be a “mutual divorce.” Such a mutual decision would be significantly more tenable, in a diplomatic sense, because each party might outline a set of grievances and conditions for the termination of cooperation. Furthermore, since the agreement would be termi-nated in a spirit of mutual understanding, the possibility of future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>


**Space control is impossible – countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation**
**Krepon et al, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While some have compared space to another "global commons," the high seas, we believe this analogy to be deeply flawed. Warships provide backup for sea-based commerce, but they are essentially instruments of warfighting. Satellites, on the other hand, usually serve multiple purposes in both military and nonmilitary domains. A ship damaged in combat can seek safety and repairs at a friendly port. The debris from combat at sea sinks and rarely constitutes a lingering hazard. Defensive measures are easier to undertake at sea than in space. If space weapons are deployed and used, no nation can expect there to be safe havens in space. And </span>if the most indiscriminate means of space warfare are employed, debris will become a long-lasting hazard to military and nonmilitary satellite operations<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. All countries would be victimized if a new precedent is set and satellites are attacked in a crisis or in warfare. </span>As the preeminent space power, the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>has the most to lose if space were to become a shooting gallery<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The best offense can serve as an effective defense in combat at sea, but this nostrum does not apply in space, since essential satellites remain extremely vulnerable to rudimentary forms of attack. </span>The introduction of dedicated and deployed weapons in space by one nation would be followed by others that feel threatened by such actions. The first attack against a satellite in crisis or warfare is therefore unlikely to be a stand-alone event, and nations may choose different rules of engagement for space warfare and different means of attack once this threshold has been crossed<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Our analysis thus leads to the conclusion that </span>the introduction and repeated flight-testing of dedicated ASAT weapons would greatly subtract from U.S. spacepower, placing at greater risk the military, commercial, civil, and lifesaving benefits that satellites provide<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Instead, we propose that the United States seek to avoid further flight testing of ASATs while hedging against hostile acts by other spacefaring nations. We argue that realizing the benefits of spacepower requires acknowledgment of four related and unavoidable dilemmas. First, the satellites upon which spacepower depends are extremely vulnerable. To be sure, </span>advanced spacefaring nations can take various steps to reduce satellite vulnerability, but the limits of protection will surely pale beside available means of disruption and destruction, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">especially in low Earth orbit (LEO). </span>//**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Vulnerabilities can be mitigated, but not eliminated</span>**//. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, the dilemma of the profound vulnerability of essential satellites has been reinforced by another dilemma of the space age: </span>satellites have been linked with the nuclear forces of major powers. Nuclear deterrence has long depended on satellites that provide early warning, communications, and targeting information to national command authorities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even nuclear powers that do not rely on satellites for ballistic missile warning may still rely on them for communications, forecasting, and targeting. </span>To interfere with the satellites of major powers has meant<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—and continues to mean—</span>the possible use of nuclear weapons, since major powers could view attacks on satellites as precursors to attacks on their nuclear forces. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The third dilemma of spacepower is that </span>space disruption is far more achievable than space control.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A strong offense might constitute the best defense on the ground, in the air, and at sea, but this principle holds little promise in space since </span>a strong offense in this domain //<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">could still be negated by asymmetric means</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Space control requires exquisitely correct, timely, and publicly compelling intelligence; the readiness to initiate war and to prevent another nation from shooting back; as well as the ability to dictate the choice of strategy and tactics in space. <span style="text-decoration: none;">It takes greathubris to believe that even the world's sole superpower</span> would be able to fulfill the requirements of space control when a $1 bag of marbles, properly inserted into LEO, could destroy a $1 billion satellite.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The ability of the United States to dictate military strategy and tactics in asymmetric, gravity-bound warfare has proven to be challenging; it is likely to be even more challenging in space, where there is less margin for error. The fourth overarching dilemma relating to spacepower therefore rests on the realization that hard military power does not ensure space control, particularly if other nations make unwise choices and if these choices are then emulated by others. The United States has unparalleled agenda-setting powers, but Washington does not have the power to dictate or control the choices of other nations. These dilemmas are widely, but not universally, recognized. Together with the widespread public antipathy to elevating humankind's worst practices into space, they help explain why the flight-testing and deployment of dedicated space weapons have not become commonplace. These capabilities are certainly not difficult to acquire, as they are decades old. Indeed, tests of dedicated ASAT weapons have periodically occurred, and such systems were deployed for short periods during the Cold War. If the weaponization of space were inevitable, it surely would have occurred when the United States and the Soviet Union went to extraordinary lengths to compete in so many other realms. The weaponization of space has not occurred to date and is not inevitable in the future because of strong public resistence to the idea of weapons in space, and because most national leaders have long recognized that this would open a Pandora's box that would be difficult to close. Much has changed since the end of the Cold War, but the fundamental dilemmas of space control, including the linkage of satellites to nuclear deterrence among major powers, have not changed. The increased post– Cold War U.S. dependence on satellites makes the introduction of dedicated space weapons even more hazardous for national and economic security. </span>Advocates of muscular space control must<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> therefore </span>take refuge in the fallacy of the last move, since warfighting plans in space make sense only in the absence of successful countermoves. Offensive counterforce operations in space do not come to grips with the dilemmas of spacepower, since proposed remedies are far more likely to accentuate than reduce satellite vulnerability<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This analysis leads inexorably to a deeply unsatisfactory and yet inescapable conclusion: </span>Realizing the enormous benefits of spacepower depends on recognizing the limits of power. The U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>now enjoys unparalleled benefits from the use of space to advance national and economic security. These benefits would be placed at risk if essential zones in space become unusable as a result of warfare<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Spacepower depends on the preservation and growth of U.S. capabilities in space. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paradoxically, the preservation and growth of U.S. spacepower will be undercut by the use of force in space.</span>

War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction
Mitchell, et al 1<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> the increased likelihood of </span><span style="color: black;">their use'</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 </span><span style="color: black;">The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such</span><span style="color: black;"> interceptors can</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span style="color: black;">be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, </span><span style="color: black;">by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 </span><span style="color: black;">Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, </span><span style="color: black;">'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that </span><span style="color: black;">any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

==1NC- CP== 
The United States federal government should create a permanent tax credit for the aerospace industry for research and development related to airframe and engage technologies. The United States federal government should eliminate communication based ITAR restrictions
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The counterplan solves aerospace competitiveness – tax incentives produce cutting edge technologies </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">FAAC 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Department of Transportation’s recommendations via the Future of Aviation Advisory Committee to Congress, The Aviation Advisory Committee provides information, advice, and recommendations to the Secretary of Transportation on ensuring the competitiveness of the U.S. aviation industry and its capability to address the evolving transportation needs, challenges, and opportunities of the global economy. 2010; [[http://www.dot.gov/faac/FAAC_Recommendations.pdf]]; JN)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">RECOMMENDATION # 2 </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">R</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">ESEARCH AND </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">D</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">EVELOPMENT RELATED TO AIRFRAME AND ENGINE TECHNOLOGIES Accelerate aircraft technology development with more robust research and development by government and industry. Seek the permanent extension of industry research and development tax credits. Seek significant increases in funding to programs such as the FAA‘s Continuous Lower Energy, Emissions and Noise (CLEEN) technology program, and continue to advocate close coordination with </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">National Aeronautics and Space Agency (</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">NASA</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">) aeronautical research programs </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">to develop aircraft technologies.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> PROBLEM/CHALLENGE The industry goals of carbon neutral growth from 2020 and halving total carbon dioxide (CO2) footprint of aviation by 2050 require a combination of actions. About 25% of the fuel burn and CO2 reduction contributions are expected from improved airframe and engine technology. Historically, most of the reductions in the environmental impact of aviation have been due to improvements in the technology on the aircraft, yet significant improvement opportunities are still in front of us. Unfortunately, the timelines for the development of new technologies tend to be very long, with additional time involved for the penetration of these technologies into the fleet. In order to realize benefits within a foreseeable timeframe, we need to achieve successful maturation and deployment of new technologies within the next 3-8 years. A concerted research and development (R&D) effort is needed to accelerate the development of technologies and their introduction into the fleet. RATIONALE </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Aviation-related research and development investments are vital for a high technology economy and also the enablers of solutions that can decrease emissions, create good jobs, increase U.S. competitiveness, and provide substantial enhancements to mobility - benefiting the general public. Aerospace is a top exporter, so increased capability in this sector also benefits the U.S. balance of payments and is key</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> to achieving the President‘s stated export goals. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Leveraging industry‘s research and development investment is by far the largest lever to maximize benefits in the shortest time frame. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Since 1981, the Research and Development Tax Credit has been a critical incentive for businesses to invest in domestic research and development. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Such credits are the highest leverage use of federal dollars to stimulate research and development that is most likely to lead to implementation in goods and services. The resulting innovation, advanced technologies, and new developments have helped keep the U.S. at the forefront of cutting edge technologies, created jobs, spurred economic growth, and driven the U.S. competitive advantage.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> In the early 1980‘s, the U.S. had the most generous R&D incentive. By 2009, the U.S. ranked 17th among the 21 OECD countries offering R&D tax incentives. Since the R&D tax credit has currently expired, the U.S. ranks last. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The U.S. aerospace industry faces tough competitors, with new emerging competition in China, Japan and Russia. We need to increase federal co-funding of R&D and provide longer term stability of the R&D tax credit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">. The CLEEN program is an initiative between FAA and industry, on a 1:1 minimum cost share (so the government contribution is no more than 50%) to mature promising technologies and alternative fuels to reduce aircraft environmental impacts and energy usage. This program has ambitious goals to achieve a quieter, cleaner fleet that operates more efficiently with less energy and sustainable fuels. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">It leverages federal dollars with industry contributions. However, it is underfunded at a federal investment of $125 million over 5 years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">. (By comparison, the noise setaside in the Airport Improvement Program is funded at a minimum of $300 million per year.) </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">If we believe that new technologies to make aviation more environmentally progressive are important to develop domestically, we need to address and improve the primary incentive available for businesses to innovate and create new products. The recommended actions will leverage job creation, enhance exports and improve the country‘s leadership in clean technologies. </span>

Export controls undermine space leadership – empirical data
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ryan </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zelnio</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. Candidate at George Mason's School of Public Policy working on his dissertation modeling the effect of international cooperation in science and technology on a nation's access to a highly skilled workforce and in modeling the flow of tacit knowledge globally, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“The effects of export control on the space industry,” //The Space Review//, January 16th, Available Online at http://www.thespacereview.com/article/533/1, Accessed 06-27-2011)</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Prior to the change in export controls</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 1999, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the US dominated the commercial satellite-manufacturing field with</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an average </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">market share of 83 percent. Since that time, market share has declined to 50 percent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (see the figure below). While this cannot be blamed entirely on </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">changes in export regulation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, they </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">have played a significant part in the decline</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, since the change in export policy, no Chinese satellite operator has chosen to purchase any satellite that is subject to US export regulations and have instead selected European and Israeli suppliers with over six satellite orders to date since 1999. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This comes out to a loss estimated</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> anywhere </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">from $1.5 to $3.0 billion to the US economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Additionally, China has made a commitment to building up their commercial satellite bus, the DFH-4 by the China Academy of Space Technology. This bus has been successfully marketed to other countries fearing US export policies, including Nigeria and Venezuela. In addition to the expected movement of Chinese satellite orders from US manufacturers, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">other operators are increasingly becoming wary of dealing with the US</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In 2003, Arabsat decided to award two new satellites to Astrium over its traditional builder, Lockheed Martin, due primarily to their fear of export regulations in holding up delivery. Telesat Canada has also tired of the red tape associated with having to deal with ITAR approval and chose to award the Anik F1R satellite to Astrium. Intelsat awarded the contract of Intelsat-10 (originally a two-satellite contract, although one of the two was later cancelled) in 2000 to Astrium fearing the effects ITAR, though they later awarded Intelsat Americas 9 to the US manufacturer Space Systems/Loral in 2004 as part of a deal in purchasing Loral’s North American satellite fleet. In addition, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">US manufacturers are increasingly</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> being </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">weary of bidding on certain foreign contracts. If they anticipate a certain level of ITAR problems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such as was seen on Koreasat 5 with its combined military and civil uses, US </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">companies choose to not even put together competitive bids to win these contracts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In talking with various satellite executives, this is estimated to be around three-to-six non-Chinese contracts since 1999 that have been avoided. Taken in with the losses in the Chinese market described previously, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">US satellite manufacturers have loss somewhere between $2.5 and $6.0 billion since 1999 due primarily to ITAR regulations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. By far the greatest benefactor to US export policies has been Alcatel Alenia Space, a joint venture formed in 2005 by combining the space businesses of Alcatel and Finmeccanica. In the early 2000s, Alcatel announced that they would create an “ITAR-free” spacecraft. By 2004, Alcatel had been able to double their market share from around 10% in 1998 to over 20% in 2004. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">There has</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">been a major downturn in the economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">particularly affecting the telecommunications industry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, over this same period. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This downturn has decreased the number of orders going into the industry in general</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the downturn and subsequent recovery has been worse for the US</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The last three-year average (2001–2003) is down 35% for US manufacturers from the previous years (1996–2000). </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">In the near future, this trend will only get worse as revenue lags contract awards by 20–30 months: revenue is added the year a satellite is launched, typically two to three years after the contract award</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==1NC- K== 

The plans a Trojan horse for militarization
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columba </span>Peoples, 2010<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies, University of Bristol, The growing ‘securitization’ of outer space , Space Policy 26 (2010) 205-208</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although it may feel like it at times, the militarization/weaponization debate is not simply a case of intellectual hair-splitting. It matters in all sorts of ways in terms of the existing framework of space law (and any revisions to it), to the way we categorize pro- gramme development and specific technologies, and the way that the actions of space powers are analysed and judged. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potential </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">problem with the eternal return of the militarization/weaponization debate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, is </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">that it is in some ways detached from the broader context of understandings of ‘space security’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that analysis of space law and policy has to take account of. In particular, the issue of </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">space arms control is further complicated by what might be termed the ‘securitization’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of outer space, which captures a range of dynamics that fall beyond the boundaries of the militarization/ weaponization debate. 2. Securitization - a new framework for analysis of space policy? What, then, is ‘securitization’, and why should it be regarded as anything other than another ‘-ation’ to be added to the pot? </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Recent decades have seen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a rapid and </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">extensive ‘broadening’ of the contexts in which the concept of security is applied and in the range of issues it is seen to cover. From a relatively circumscribed historical association with military threats</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and issues, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the concept of security is increasingly used in reference to ‘non-traditional’ issues, such as</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> migration and </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">environmental degradation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">In both policy and academic discourse non-military issues are now frequently referred to as ‘security’ issues by policy makers. Space policy has been far from immune from this wider trend. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">moves to widen the spectrum of security issues can be classified as</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> attempts at ‘</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">securitization’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a term coined by the group of scholars within security studies commonly referred to as the ‘CopenhagenSchool’.2 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Securitization is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in broad terms, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the process through which a non-military issue comes to be seen as an issue of security. When an issue comes to be treated as an issue of national security, it is justifiable to use exceptional political measures to deal with it. It is ‘securitized’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: that is, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">it is treated with the same degree of urgency as military threats tothe very existence of a state</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as traditionally captured in the concept of ‘national security’), </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">or</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what the Copenhagen School labels ‘</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">existential threats’. At its most fundamental the idea of national security assumes that the state must be protected</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">therefore it is necessary for the state to maintain standing armies, weapons production and procurement, intelligence agencies, and so on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">One of the ways we can distinguish an existential threat</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">is by the level of response it generates. When an issue or development is successfully presented as an existential threat, it legitimises the use of exceptional political </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">measures. A classic military example in inter- national relations </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a state’s right to </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">self-defence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If a state is </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">under attack, it claims the legitimate use of extraordinary measures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that go beyond normal day-to-day politics: the declaration of a state of emergency or </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">martial law</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">rationing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of certain goods and services, closure of roads and schools, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">and so on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Commonly</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the identification of existential threats sets in chain a number of effects that characterize the specific quality of security problems: urgency - the issue takes priority; and extraordinary measures - authorities claim powers that they would not otherwise have, or curtail rights and liberties that might otherwise apply</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In sh</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">ort, securitization is a style of argumentation used in attempts to legitimate the application of extraordinary measures by positioning an issue as equivalent to a threat to national security as it is more traditionally understood. By attempting to portray an issue as a security issue, a securitizing move is made; that is, a move to class an issue in the same category as national defence. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. The EU as a securitizing actor The reasoning behind this introduction of securitization theory here into debates on space policy is that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the militarization/weaponization debate only partially captures (at best) the multiple ways in which outer space is being linked to security in the space policy discourses</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of leading states and international organizations - </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">ways that encompass not only ‘traditional’ military securitybut also the security of economic, environ-mental, scientific and technical infrastructures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As is discussed below, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">space policy is one of the areas where we have seen a rapid proliferation of ‘securitizing moves’ that identify space as crucial to national security and survival in a variety of ways.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Even if some of these moves might be argued to be more successful than others in terms of their actual political effects, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the sheer prevalence of attempted securitization within space policy provides a rationale for revisiting the question of whether militarization/weaponization is a sufficient way of framing the analysis of space policy in relation to security. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is worth emphasising that at a general level </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the ‘securitization of outer space’ is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in itself,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> not a novel phenomenon</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or development. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The extent to which ostensibly civil uses of outer space have been driven by, and have overlapped with, national security functions historically-or, as in the case of the space race between the USA and USSR, have acted as a surrogate for direct military engagement-is well documented.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Similarly the characterization of the Sputnik launch in 1957 as placing the USA ‘in the greatest danger in its history’ suggests that the representation of space technologies as potential ‘existential threats’ is not entirely new either.3 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Of significance, though, is the intensification, expansion and entrenchment of ‘securitizing moves’ as a feature of contemporary space policies. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this respect the European Union stands out as a ‘securitizing actor’ par excellence, with an ever-increasing range of activities deemed as issues of space security that demand new and intensified levels of regional cooperation. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The President of the EU, José Manuel Barroso, has</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in this vein, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">argued that Europe</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> needs ‘more security in and from space’, defining this not only in ways that encompass traditional fears of attacks on space assets as an ‘existential threat’, but also by including a range of other issues: Our space assets and infrastructure are indispensable for our economy and security and we need to protect them. The EU should develop an independent capacity to monitor satellites and debris orbiting the Earth and the space environment, and tackle possible hazards. We </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">should also exploit the potential of space infrastructure (already available</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for example, t</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">hrough GMES [Global Monitoring for Environment and Security]) to protect our citizens</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and our ground infrastructure </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">against natural and manmade hazards</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and to be at the service of European Security and Defence Policy goals. These capacities should be developed in partnership with Member States. Here </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">security is understood in a more expansive and comprehensive sense than the traditional conception of military security</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in a manner that parallels the ‘broad’ understanding of security in EU policy discourse more generally. Thus, as well as citing the role of space in European Defence, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the existential threats identified here also include the prospects of environmental disaster and economic meltdown</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Similarly, the European Space Agency has argued that security needs are ‘connected to [.] technological progress’, and ‘Space systems are a fundamental aspect of “technological security”: they offer extremely versatile solutions in a global, international dimension.’5 Both these arguments complement a final ‘security’ function, which is that space can become a catalyst of further European integration, thus preserving the political security of the Union: ‘Security applications provided by space technologies are a linchpin of European policy. But Space security goes far beyond this utilization logic: Space technologies directly contribute to the building of an EU political project.’6 4. The wider context Although securitization is a prevalent feature of EU space policy discourse, it is by no means Europe’s sole preserve. In its overview of global space policies, the Space Security Index report Space Security 2009 explicitly noted that ‘National space policies consistently emphasize international cooperation and the peaceful uses of outer space’, but equally that there is a ‘Growing focus within national policies on the security uses of outer space’. As well as developments in EU space policy, the report notes that national security has become a central principle of China’s emerging space programme, and that France’s White Paper on Defence and National Security calls for an overhaul of its national space strategy.7 Another prominent instance in this regard is Japan’s 2008 ‘Basic Law of Space Activities’, the first significant alteration to the Japanese space policy framework established in 1969. Whereas the latter studiously adhered to the ‘peaceful purposes’ of the Outer Space Treaty (interpreting this strictly to mean ‘non-military’ purposes), the 2008 framework has lifted the previous ban on military space activities by citing the importance of ‘national security’, thus potentially allowing a greater space role for Japan’s Ministry of Defence in this regard. The move attracted controversy given Japan’s ‘Peaceful Constitution’8 and the strict interpretation of ‘peaceful purposes’ in the 1969 framework. Japan has used ‘multi-purpose’ Information Gathering Satellites (IGS) for tasks such as monitoring North Korean missile programmes long prior to 2008 but, as Kazuto Suzuki notes, ‘It was [previously] difficult even to mention the term “dual-use” because that would imply the possibility of participation of the MoD.’9 Post-2008 Japan’s space budget has been weighted more heavily towards military research and the use of outer space for defensive purposes. An attempt to articulate a broader understanding of security, however, has been used to ‘soften’ the military implications of the new framework. Although many commentators suspect the primacy of concerns about North Korea (and China), it is notable that the 2008 framework alludes to crisis management, disaster monitoring and potential involvement in overseas peacekeeping as key facets of this understanding of the security functions of Japanese satellites.10 Even </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">US space policy appears to have moved towards securitization of an ever greater range of issues</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that include - but also extend well beyond - a narrow military definition of security. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The US National Space Policy of 2006 identified US military capabilities as ‘critically dependent upon space capabilities’, but equally cited space capabilities as ‘critical’ to ‘.a wide range of civil, commercial, and national security users’, thus assuming wider security implications of space as well as its more direct military uses.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">11 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This stated centrality of space to both military and civilian infrastructures was subsequently used to justify the exceptional, unilateralist stance taken by</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the George W.</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> Bush</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> administration towards any proposals for new legal regimes on outer space or restrictions on military research and development. Although the National Space Policy of 2010 is diametrically opposed in its attitude towards international cooperation, space law and arms control (‘The United States will consider proposals and concepts for arms control measures if they are equitable, effectively verifiable, and enhance the national security of the United States and its allies’12),</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> the Obama administration</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> nevertheless </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">shares with its predecessor the assumption that space security is more than just military, as is exemplified in its National Security Strategy: </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Across the globe, we must work in concert with allies and partners to optimize the use of shared sea, air, and space domains. These shared areas, which exist outside exclusive national jurisdictions, are the connective tissue around the globe upon which all nations’ security and prosperity depend. The United States will continue to help safeguard access, promote security, and ensure the sustainable use of resources in these domains.13 5. Space securitization -promise or peril? </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Attempts at securitization are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">a rapidly growing feature of contemporary space policy discourse</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Merely making this observation, however, leaves aside the question of whether such securitizing moves should be encouraged or avoided by policy makers and analysts. On </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the one hand, the idea of space as a key part of the ‘connective tissue’ that binds global security might seem an attractive proposition to those seeking to shift the emphasis away from militaristic national concerns. In this light</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">attempts to securitize environmental monitoring, critical infrastructure and economic prosperityunder the rubric of space security might be welcomed as the basis for a more multilateral, cooperative global approach</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">On the other hand</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">there is a legitimate concern that the securitization of space policy effectively acts as a Trojan horse for the expansion of national-military interests</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. One previous viewpoint contributor contends in relation to EU space policy that ‘.</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Europe’s “security research” has slowly paved the way for the introduction of much more controversial “military research” within the European domain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">’14, and Manriquez suspects that, with Japan’s space law revision, ‘the nation inches [further] towards re-militarization with the likely opening of space for military use.’15 Similarly, the new space policy of </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the Obama administration appeals simultaneously to an expansive definition of global security and a more narrow, traditional focus on the national-military interest of the USA included within this. All of this points to the importance of taking the securitization of space policy seriously as a key element of debates on space security. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Focusing on militarization and weaponization alone simply isn’t sufficient.</span>

Securitization guarantees conflict and nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anthony</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Burke, 2007, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">senior lecturer at University of New South Whales, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, theory & Event, 10, 2</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By itself, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">such an account of the nationalist ontology of war and security provides only a general insight into the perseverance of military violence as a core element of politics. It does not explain why so many policymakers think military violence works. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As I argued earlier, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">such an ontology is married to a more rationalistic form of strategic thought that claims to link violent means to political ends predictably and controllably</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and which, by doing so, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">combines military action and national purposes into a common -</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- and thoroughly modern -- </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">horizon of certainty</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Given Hegel's desire to decisively distil and control the dynamic potentials of modernity in thought, it is helpful to focus on themodernity of this ontology -- one that is modern in its adherence to modern scientific models of truth, reality and technological progress, and in its insistence on imposing images of scientific truth from the physical sciences (such as mathematics and physics) onto human behaviour, politics and society. For example, the military theorist and historian Martin van Creveld has argued that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">one of the reasons Clausewitz was so influential was that his 'ideas seemed to have chimed in with the rationalistic, scientific, and technological outlook associated with the industrial revolution'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.54</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Set into this epistemological matrix, modern politics and government engages in a sweeping project of mastery and control in which all of the world's resources -- mineral, animal, physical, human -- are made part of a machinic process of which war and violence are viewed as normal features</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">These are the deeper claims and implications of Clausewitzian strategic reason.One of the most revealing contemporary examples comes from</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the writings (and actions) of Henry </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Kissinger</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a Harvard professor and later U.S. National Security Adviser and Secretary of State. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">He wrote</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> during the Vietnam war that after 1945 U.S. foreign policy was based 'on the assumption that technology plus managerial skills gave us the ability to reshape the international system and to bring about domestic transformations in emerging countries'. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This 'scientific revolution' had 'for all practical purposes, removed technical limits from the exercise of power in foreign policy'.</span>55 <span style="text-decoration: none;">Kissinger's conviction was based </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">not merely in his pride in the vast military and bureaucratic apparatus of the United States, but </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">in a particular epistemology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (theory of knowledge). </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Kissinger asserted that the West is 'deeply committed to the notion that the real world is external to the observer, that knowledge consists of recording and classifying data -- the more accurately the better'.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This, he claimed, has since the Renaissance set the West apart from an 'undeveloped' world that contains 'cultures that have escaped the early impact of Newtonian thinking' and remain wedded to the 'essentially pre-Newtonian view that the real world is almost entirely internal to the observer'.56  At the same time, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Kissinger's hubris and hunger for control was beset by a corrosive anxiety</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">that, in an era of nuclear weapons proliferation and constant military modernisation, of geopolitical stalemate in Vietnam, and the emergence and militancy of new post-colonial states, order and mastery were harder to define and impose.He worried over the way 'military bipolarity' between the superpowers had 'encouraged political multipolarity', which 'does not guarantee stability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Rigidity is diminished, but so is </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">manageability</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">...equilibrium is difficult to achieve among states widely divergent in values, goals, expectations and previous experience' (emphasis added). </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">He mourned that 'the greatest need of the contemporary international system is an agreed concept of order'.</span>57<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Here were the driving obsessions of the modern rational statesman based around a hunger for stasis and certainty that would entrench U.S. hegemony: For the two decades after 1945, our international activities were based on the assumption that technology plus managerial skills gave us the ability to reshape the international system and to bring about domestic transformations in "emerging countries".</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This direct "operational" concept of international order has proved too simple. Political multipolarity makes it impossible to impose an American design. Our deepest challenge will be to evoke the creativity of a pluralistic world, to base order on political multipolarity even though overwhelming military strength will remain with the two superpowers.58</span> <span style="text-decoration: none;">Kissinger's statement revealed that such cravings for order and certainty continually confront chaos, resistance and uncertainty: clay that won't be worked, flesh that will not yield, enemies that refuse to surrender</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This is one of the most powerful lessons of the Indochina wars, which were to continue in a phenomenally destructive fashion for six years after Kissinger wrote these words.Yet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as his sinister, Orwellian exhortation to 'evoke the creativity of a pluralistic world' demonstrated, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Kissinger's hubris was undiminished.This is a vicious, historic irony: a desire to control nature, technology, society and human beings that is continually frustrated, but never abandoned or rethought.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> By 1968 U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">McNamara, the rationalist policymaker par excellence, had already decided that U.S. power and technology could not prevail in Vietnam;</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nixon </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">and Kissinger's refusal to accept this conclusion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, to abandon their Cartesian illusions, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">was to condemn hundreds of thousands more to die</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Indochina and the people of Cambodia to two more decades of horror and misery.59</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">In 2003 there would be a powerful sense of déja vu as another</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Republican </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Administration crowned more than decade of failed and destructive policy on Iraq </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">with a deeply controversial and divisive war to remove Saddam Hussein from power. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">In this struggle with the lessons of Vietnam, revolutionary resistance, and rapid geopolitical transformation, we are witness to an enduring political and cultural theme: of a craving for order, control and certainty in the face of continual uncertainty.Closely related</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to this anxiety </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">was the way that Kissinger's thinking --</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and that of McNamara and earlier imperialists like the British Governor of Egypt Cromer -- </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">was embedded in instrumental images of technology and the machine: the machine as both a tool of power and an image of social and political order</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In his essay 'The Government of Subject Races' Cromer envisaged effective imperial rule -- over numerous societies and billions of human beings -- as best achieved by a central authority working 'to ensure the harmonious working of the different parts of the machine'.60</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Kissinger analogously invoked the virtues of 'equilibrium', 'manageability' and 'stability' yet, writing some six decades later, was anxious that technological progress no longer brought untroubled control: the Westernising 'spread of technology and its associated rationality...does not inevitably produce a similar concept of reality'.</span>61<span style="text-decoration: none;"> We sense the rational policymaker's frustrated desire</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">the world is supposed to work like a machine, ordered by a form of power and governmental reason which deploys machines and whose desires and processes are meant to run along ordered, rational lines like a machine.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kissinger's desire was little different from that of </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Cromer </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">who, wrote Edward Said: ...</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">envisions a seat of power in the West and radiating out from it towards the East a great embracing machine, sustaining the central authority yet commanded by it. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">What the machine's branches feed into it from the East -- human material, material wealth, knowledge, what have you -- is processed by the machine, then converted into more power...the immediate translation of mere Oriental matter into useful substance.62</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This desire for order in the shadow of chaos and uncertainty -- the constant war with an intractable and volatile matter -- has deep roots in modern thought, andwas a major impetus to the development of technological reason and its supporting theories of knowledge.As Kissinger's claims about the West's Newtonian desire for the 'accurate' gathering and classification of 'data' suggest, modern strategy, foreign policy and Realpolitik have been thrust deep into the apparently stable soil of natural science, in the hope of finding immovable and unchallengeable roots there</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. While this process has origins in ancient Judaic and Greek thought, it crystallised in philosophical terms most powerfully during and after the Renaissance. The key figures in this process were Francis Bacon, Galileo, Isaac Newton, and René Descartes, who all combined a hunger for political and ontological certainty, a positivist epistemology and a naïve faith in the goodness of invention. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bacon sought to create certainty and order, and with it a new human power over the world, through a new empirical methodology based on a harmonious combination of experiment, the senses and the understanding</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. With this method, he argued, we can 'derive hope from a purer alliance of the faculties (the experimental and rational) than has yet been attempted'.63 In a similar move, Descartes sought to conjure certainty from uncertainty through the application of a new method that moved progressively out from a few basic certainties (the existence of God, the certitude of individual consciousness and a divinely granted faculty of judgement) in a search for pure fixed truths. Mathematics formed the ideal image of this method, with its strict logical reasoning, its quantifiable results and its uncanny insights into the hidden structure of the cosmos.64 Earlier, Galileo had argued that scientists should privilege 'objective', quantifiable qualities over 'merely perceptible' ones; that 'only by means of an exclusively quantitative analysis could science attain certain knowledge of the world'.65 Such doctrines of mathematically verifiable truth were to have powerful echoes in the 20th Century, in the ascendancy of systems analysis, game theory, cybernetics and computing in defense policy and strategic decisions, and in the awesome scientific breakthroughs of nuclear physics, which unlocked the innermost secrets of matter and energy and applied the most advanced applications of mathematics and computing to create the atomic bomb. Yet this new scientific power was marked by a terrible irony: as even Morgenthau understood, the control over matter afforded by the science could never be translated into the control of the weapons themselves, into political utility and rational strategy.66 Bacon thought of the new scientific method not merely as way of achieving a purer access to truth and epistemological certainty, but as liberating a new power that would enable the creation of a new kind of Man. He opened the </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Novum Organum</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with the statement that 'knowledge and human power are synonymous', and later wrote of his 'determination...to lay a firmer foundation, and extend to a greater distance the boundaries of human power and dignity'.67 In a revealing and highly negative comparison between 'men's lives in the most polished countries of Europe and in any wild and barbarous region of the new Indies' -- one that echoes in advance Kissinger's distinction between post-and pre-Newtonian cultures -- </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bacon set out what was at stake in the advancement of empirical science: anyone making this comparison, he remarked, 'will think it so great, that man may be said to be a god unto man'.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">68 We may be forgiven for blinking, but in Bacon's thought 'man' was indeed in the process of stealing a new fire from the heavens and seizing God's power over the world for itself. Not only would the new empirical science lead to 'an improvement of mankind's estate, and an increase in their power over nature', but would reverse the primordial humiliation of the Fall of Adam: For man, by the fall, lost at once his state of innocence, and his empire over creation, both of which can be partially recovered even in this life, the first by religion and faith, the second by the arts and sciences. For creation did not become entirely and utterly rebellious by the curse, but in consequence of the Divine decree, 'in the sweat of thy brow thou shalt eat bread'; she is now compelled by our labours (not assuredly by our disputes or magical ceremonies) at length to afford mankind in some degree his bread...69</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">There is a breathtaking, world-creating hubris in this statement -- one that, in many ways, came to characterise western modernity itself, and which is easily recognisable in a generation of modern technocrats like Kissinger.The Fall of Adam was the Judeo-Christian West's primal creation myth, one that marked humankind as flawed and humbled before God, condemned to hardship and ambivalence. Bacon forecast here a return to Eden, but one of man's own making. This truly was the death of God, of putting man into God's place, and no pious appeals to the continuity or guidance of faith could disguise the awesome epistemological violence which now subordinated creation to man</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Bacon indeed argued that inventions are 'new creations and imitations of divine works'. As such, there is nothing but good in science: 'the introduction of great inventions is the most distinguished of human actions...inventions are a blessing and a benefit without injuring or afflicting any'.70 And </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">what would be mankind's 'bread', the rewards of its new 'empire over creation'? If the new method and invention brought modern medicine, social welfare, sanitation, communications, education and comfort, it also enabled the Armenian genocide, the Holocaust and two world wars; napalm, the B52, the hydrogen bomb, the Kalashnikov rifle and military strategy. Indeed some of the 20th Century's most far-reaching inventions </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- radar, television, rocketry, computing, communications, jet aircraft, the Internet -- </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">would be the product of drives for national security and militarisation. Even the inventions Bacon thought so marvellous and transformative --</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> printing, gunpowder and the compass -- </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">brought in their wake upheaval and tragedy: printing, dogma and bureaucracy; gunpowder, the rifle and the artillery battery; navigation, slavery and the genocide of indigenous peoples</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In short, the </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">legacy of the new empirical science would be ambivalence as much as certainty; degradation as much as enlightenment; the destruction of nature as much as its utilisation. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Doubts and Fears: Technology as Ontology </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">If Bacon could not reasonably be expected to foresee many of these developments, the idea that scientific and technological progress could be destructive did occur to him. However it was an anxiety he summarily dismissed: .</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">..let none be alarmed at the objection of the arts and sciences becoming depraved to malevolent or luxurious purposes and the like, for the same can be said of every worldly good; talent, courage, strength, beauty, riches, light itself...Only let mankind regain their rights over nature, assigned to them by the gift of God, and obtain that power, whose exercise will be governed by right reason and true religion.71 By the mid-Twentieth Century, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">after the destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, such fears could no longer be so easily wished away,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as the physicist and scientific director of the Manhattan Project, J. Robert Oppenheimer recognised. He said in a 1947 lecture: We felt a particularly intimate responsibility for suggesting, for supporting and in the end in large measure achieving the realization of atomic weapons...In some sort of crude sense which no vulgarity, no humor, no over-statement can quite extinguish, the physicists have known sin, and this is a knowledge they cannot lose.72</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Adam had fallen once more, but into a world which refused to acknowledge its renewed intimacy with contingency and evil.Man's empire over creation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- his discovery of the innermost secrets of matter and energy, of the fires that fuelled the stars -- </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">had not 'enhanced human power and dignity'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as Bacon claimed, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">but instead brought destruction and horror. Scientific powers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that had been consciously applied in the defence of life and in the hope of its betterment </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">now threatened its total and absolute destruction. This would not prevent a legion of scientists, soldiers and national security policymakers later attempting to apply Bacon's faith in invention and Descartes' faith in mathematics to make of the Bomb a rational weapon. Oppenheimer -- who resolutely opposed the development of the hydrogen bomb -- understood what the strategists could not: that the weapons resisted control, resisted utility, that 'with the release of atomic energy quite revolutionary changes had occurred in the techniques of warfare'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.73 Yet Bacon's legacy, one deeply imprinted on the strategists, was his view that truth and utility are 'perfectly identical'.74 In 1947 Oppenheimer had clung to the hope that 'knowledge is good...it seems hard to live any other way than thinking it was better to know something than not to know it; and the more you know, the better'; by 1960 he felt that 'terror attaches to new knowledge. It has an unmooring quality; it finds men unprepared to deal with it.'75 Martin </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Heidegger questioned this mapping of natural science onto the social world in his essays on technology -- which, as 'machine', has been so crucial to modern strategic and geopolitical thought as an image of perfect function and order and a powerful tool of intervention</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">commented that, given that modern technology 'employs exact physical science...the deceptive illusion arises that modern technology is applied physical science'.</span>76<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Yet as the essays and speeches of Oppenheimer attest, technology and its relation to science, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">society and war cannot be reduced to a noiseless series of translations of science for politics, knowledge for force, or force for good. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instead, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Oppenheimer saw a process frustrated by roadblocks and ruptured by irony; in his view there was no smooth, unproblematic translation of scientific truth into social truth, and technology was not its vehicle. Rather his comments raise profound and painful ethical questions that resonate with terror and uncertainty.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Yet this has not prevented technology becoming a potent object of desire, not merely as an instrument of power but as a promise and conduit of certainty itself. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">In the minds of too many rational soldiers, strategists and policymakers, technology brings with it the truth of its enabling science and spreads it over the world. It turns epistemological certainty into political certainty; it turns control over 'facts' into control over the earth. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Heidegger's insights into this phenomena I find especially telling and disturbing -- because they underline the ontological force of the instrumental view of politics. In The Question Concerning Technology, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Heidegger's striking argument was that in the modernising West technology is not merely a tool, a 'means to an end'.Rather technology has become a governing image of the modern universe, one that has come to order, limit and define human existence as a 'calculable coherence of forces' and a 'standing reserve' of energy</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Heidegger wrote: </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">'the threat to man does not come in the first instance from the potentially lethal machines and apparatus of technology. The actual threat has already affected man in his essence.'</span>77<span style="text-decoration: none;"> This process Heidegger calls 'Enframing' and through it the scientific mind demands that 'nature reports itself in some way or other that is identifiable through calculation and remains orderable as a system of information'.Man is not a being who makes and uses machines as means</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, choosing and limiting their impact on the world for his ends; </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">rather man has imagined the world as a machine and humanity everywhere becomes trapped within its logic. Man,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he writes, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">'comes to the very brink of a precipitous fall...where he himself will have to be taken as standing-reserve. Meanwhile Man, precisely as the one so threatened, exalts himself to the posture of lord of the earth.'</span>78<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Technological man not only becomes the name for a project of lordship and mastery over the earth, but incorporates humanity within this project as a calculable resource. In strategy, warfare and geopolitics human bodies, actions and aspirations are caught, transformed and perverted by such calculating, enframing reason: human lives are reduced to tools, obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.</span>

Alternative Text: Refuse Securitization

The reproduction of security discourse in policy debate must be interrupted, vote negative to do so
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anthony</span>Burke, 2007<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and Int. Relations at the Univ of New South Wales, Sydney, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 52-3</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">as countless struggles for freedom, justice and social transformation have proved, a sense of seriousness can be tempered with the knowledge that many of the tools are already available</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – and where they are not,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the effort to create a productive new critical sensibility is well advanced</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. There is also a crucial political opening within the liberal problematic itself, in the sense that it assumes that</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">power is most effective when it is absorbed as truth, consented to and desired</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">which creates an important space for dissent, critique and refusal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As Colin Gordon argues,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Foucault thought that the very possibility of governing was conditional on it being credible to the governed as well as the governing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.79 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This throws weight onto the question of how security works as a technology of subjectivity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is to</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">take up Foucault's challenge</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, framed as a reversal of the liberal progressive movement of being we have seen in Hegel,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">not to discover who we are so much as to refuse what we are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.80 </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Just as security rules subjectivity as both a totalising and individualising blackmail and promise, it is at these levels we too can intervene. We can critique the machinic frameworks of possibility represented by law, policy, economic regulation and diplomacy, while challenging the way these institutions deploy language to draw individual subjects into their consensual web. This</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">suggests, at least provisionally, a dual strategy. The first</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">asserts the space for agency, both in challenging available possibilities for being and their larger socio-economic implications. Pushing beyond security requires tactics that can work at many levels</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">that empower individuals to recognise the larger social, cultural and economic implications of the everyday forms of desire, subjection and discipline they encounter, to challenge and rewrite them, and which in turn contribute to collective efforts to transform the larger structures of being, exchange and power that sustain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(and have been sustained by)</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">these forms</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As Derrida suggests,</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">this is to open up aporetic possibilities that transgress and call into question the boundaries of the self, society and the international that security seeks to imagine and police. The second seeks new ethical principles based on a critique of the rigid and repressive forms of identity security has</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">heretofore</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">offered</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Thus writers such as Rosalyn Diprose, William Connolly and Moira Gatens have sought to imagine a new ethical relationship, which thinks difference not on the basis of the Same, but</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">on the basis of a dialogue with the Other that might allow space for the unknown and unfamiliar</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for what Gatens calls</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">a 'debate and engagement with the other's law and the other's ethics'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">an encounter which involves a transformation of the self rather than the other</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.81 (The potentials and limits of these models of ethics are explored in more detail in Chapter 3, where I critically analyse the political possibilities offered by the thought of Emmanuel Levinas, Martin Heidegger and Martin Buber.) In short, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">while the sweep and power of security must be acknowledged, it must also be refused: at the simultaneous levels of individual identity, social order and macroeconomic possibility, it would entail another kind of work on 'ourselves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">' – </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">a political refusal of the One, the imagination of an Other that never returns to the Same. It is to imagine a world in which alternative possibilities of society, justice and existence are free to develop, independent of sovereign ontologies and their animating forms of geopolitical control, desire and violence. It is to ask if there can be a world or a security after security, and what its shimmering possibilities might be.</span>
==Case- Deterrence== 
. Even if an attack occurs – wouldn’t cause significant damage
Lowther 5-14<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-2011 (William a staff writer in Washington “US expert warns of PRC economic trap” [[http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2011/05/14/2003503184]]) BW</span>

<span style="color: black;">Watts — former head of the Office of Program Analysis and Evaluation at the Department of Defense</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> — quoted one study by the Commission on US National Security in Space that warned that unless steps were taken to reduce the vulnerability of the US’ space systems, the country would face the real possibility of a “space Pearl Harbor.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, he </span>said that after the PRC’s successful anti-satellite weapons (ASAT<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) test in January 2007, it was </span>concluded that even with months of planning, the best China could do against US space capabilities would be to attack nine Low Earth Orbit satellites. The short-term consequences of such an attack would be “limited,” and even under a worst-case scenario, a Chinese all-out ASAT attack would “only reduce” the US’ use of precision-guided weapons and satellite communications.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyberattacks will disable US space assets</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Donahue, 10 – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])</span>

Another unpredictable driving force that needs to be considered is adversary exploitation of space vulnerabilities via the cyber domain. Through cyberspace, enemies<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (both state and non-state actors) </span>will target industry, academia, government, as well as the military in the air, land, maritime, and space domains<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.86 </span>One of the easiest ways to disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy the utility of space assets is to attack or sabotage the associated ground segments through cyberspace<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.87 The ground segment includes telemetry, tracking, and commanding of space assets and space-launch functions. </span>Ground stations are an extremely critical piece of a satellites continued operation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, </span>many satellite tracking and control stations are lightly guarded and many satellite communications, launch, data reception, and control facilities are described in numerous open-source materials making the ground segment extremely vulnerable to cyber attack<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.88 </span>An attack on a fixed ground facility can stop data transmission, render launch facilities unusable, and prevent control of satellites.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">89 Thus, rendering affected orbiting satellites inoperative from the communication disruption and creating a risk to other active satellites and a potential for additional orbital debris. </span>A single incident <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or a small number of incidents </span>could significantly impact space systems for years<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.90</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SSA Laser is inefficient and unsustainable- massive cost and limited field view </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wiest 2007</span>- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF “UPON THIS ROCK… A FOUNDATIONAL SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS TECHNOLOGY FOR 2030” AIR UNIVERSITY Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007 http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA515444</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Even with political will and an unchanging legal environment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the cost of fielding this system may be prohibitive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> because many satellites will be necessary to perform the activities identified in Section 6, especially in the “Stormy Weather” scenario. Because </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">lasers have a limited field of view</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the volume of space a single satellite can cover is small</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In addition, the distance the light must travel to an object and back is significant.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This distance limits how far away the space object can be from the conceptual SSA satellite. In addition, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">larger distances between the space object and the conceptual SSA satellite require larger optics</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for the passive sensor to obtain a detailed image of the space object. 99 To sufficiently cover space and frequently reconnoiter other countries’ space order of battle, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the U.S. requires many conceptual SSA satellite</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s. Further, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">while small satellites are the basis of this system to reduce the cost</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">physical and design realities may increase satellite size</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and total development cost. Even though the capabilities of the system may allow it to provide SSA data to help diagnose and attribute space activities to a specific satellite, the </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">size or number of conceptual SSA satellites may make development cost-prohibitive.</span>


2. ASAT attacks are too difficult to pull off – the scale of the challenge makes it impossible to hit enough satellites, and redundancy means the US won’t lose critical systems
Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, professor of science, technology and national security policy at MIT. Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>China could not launch the massive attack required to have anything like a significant effect on U.S. ability to utilize space without months of careful planning and pre-positioning of ASAT carrying missiles around the country<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It would also have to utilize its satellite launch facilities to attack any U.S. assets in deep space, i.e., the GPS navigation satellites and communications satellites in GEO orbit. Most importantly, </span>it would have to time the attack to hit as many U.S. satellites as simultaneously as possible. And despite all that movement, China would somehow have to keep the whole thing secret<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Failure to do so would undoubtedly result in the U.S. attacking the large, fixed facilities China needs to wage this kind of war before the full blow had been struck. Even if the U.S. decided not to attack, China would undoubtedly plan for that contingency. Based on the orbits of U.S. military satellites determined by the world-wide network of amateur observers, </span>there appears to be periods of time where a large number of LEO military satellites cross over China several times each week. To hit them, China would have to preposition its ASAT-tipped missiles and their mobile launchers in remote areas of China, one position for each satellite<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If reports of low reliabilities for these missiles are correct, two or more missiles might be assigned to each satellite.3 Furthermore, these positions are really only suitable for a particular day. If China’s political and military planners have any uncertainty at all about which day to launch their space war, they would need to pre-position additional launchers around the country. Thus, </span>attacking nine LEO satellites could require as many as 36 mobile launchers—enough for two interceptors fired at each satellite with a contingency day if plans change—moved to remote areas of China<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; areas determined more by the satellite orbits than China’s network of roads. At the same time that China would be trying to move its mobile missile launchers around the country covertly, it would also have to assemble a fleet of large rockets, ones normally used for launching satellites. The more large rockets China uses for this task, the more deep-space satellites it can destroy. At present, </span>China only has the facilities for assembling and launching a total of four such rockets nearly simultaneously<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Two would have to be assembled out in the open where they could be observed by U.S. spy satellites, and two could be assembled inside a vertical assembly building during the 18 days it takes to stack and fuel the Long March rocket’s stages while preparing to launch.4 Even the two assembled indoors would need to arrive by train and eventually would have to be moved, one after the other, to the launch pad. Each of these rockets, usually reserved for launching satellites into GEO orbits, could carry three to four interceptors and their special orbital maneuver motors to attack U.S. navigation satellites, at about 20,000km altitude, or communications satellites at about 36,000 km.Four days prior to the attack, China would launch the first of its Long March rockets carrying deep-space attack ASATs; the same launch pad would have to be used for the second rocket stacked inside the vertical assembly building. As the technicians renovated that pad, the first rocket’s payload would circle the Earth in a parking orbit at about 300km altitude waiting to be joined by the other deep-space ASATs. This would appear to be a tell-tale sign of an impending strike. China, of course, could explain the delay to the international community by claiming that the third stage, intended to take the payload it its final altitude, had failed to fire and that they were working on it. Roughly six hours before the first the attack on U.S. LEO military satellites, the other three Long March rockets would have to be fired since it takes roughly that long to get their payloads up to their target’s orbits. Delays or failures to launch any of these rockets would strand their interceptors on the launch pad and subject them to possible retaliatory bombing by the U.S. </span>If all goes as planned, China would have launched between 12 and 16 ASATs<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, each capable of destroying a strategically important deep-space satellite. </span>However, the U.S. military has many more deep space satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Presently, </span>there are 32 functioning GPS navigation satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even though the original design called for 24.5 In addition, </span>the U.S. has 23 military communications satellites, six early warning satellites that observe missile launches, and six surveillance satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—most of which detect and monitor electronic transmissions of potential adversaries but one, apparently capable of photoreconnaissance—</span>in GEO orbit<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.6 </span>These satellites are reinforced by a private network of 90 commercial communications satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—owned and operated by U.S. corporations—</span>which could be used to replace destroyed military communications satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, presumably.7 In addition, </span>there are 75 civilian and the 64 military/civilian communications satellites in LEO<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—although they do not have the same transmission capacity as the GEO satellites.8 </span>The U.S. may be the country most dependent on space for its military activities, but it is also the least vulnerable, because of the tremendous redundancy of its space assets.

3. Our evidence accounts for the worst case scenario and at most it would set the US back a few hours
Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, professor of science, technology and national security policy at MIT. Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The answers to these questions should influence how the U.S. responds to the threats China’s ASAT represents. There is at least one way to answer these questions, i.e., ‘‘war-gaming’’ a massive Chinese attack on U.S. satellites, where China is only limited by the laws of physics and the known properties of their ASAT, and see how much damage could be done. Such an exercise also reveals what the U.S. could do, and what it could not do, to minimize the consequences. </span>The results<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are reported herein. They </span>assume that China launches a massive attack and that everything works exactly as planned<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; every ASAT launches, the U.S. does not respond until after the attacks are launched even though it will have overwhelming evidence ahead of time, </span>and every ASAT hits its target.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus, </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">this is a worst case scenario</span>// for the U.S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the end, </span>the U.S. would still possess sufficient space assets to fight a major conventional war with China, even after such an attack. America’s military capabilities would be reduced, for a few hours<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at a time, </span>but they would not be crippled.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Back in 2001, a commission lead by Donald </span>Rumsfeld warned of a ‘‘Pearl Harbor’’ in space<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> whereby a single strike could cripple America’s satellite network.1 </span>It turns out that there is no such thing.

4. China’s offensive space launch capabilities are too weak
Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, professor of science, technology and national security policy at MIT. Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)

You need a launch pad to attack a target in deep space, like an American GPS satellite. China has just three of these pads. This really restricts China’s offensive capabilities in space<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Assuming that China devotes all its deep-space ASATs on GPS satellites, it could destroy at most 16 satellites. At the current time, with 32 functioning navigation satellites, that would still leave 16 satellites still working<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Over a period of years, the debris from those collisions would represent a significant threat to more than those satellites immediately attacked. They would pass repeatedly through the belts of debris that resulted from the interceptions. However, it would probably take longer than the military conflict China initiated with these attacks before additional satellites were destroyed by subsequent collisions. </span>There are usually about nine GPS satellites over China at any given time. If China somehow managed to destroy all of these, it could eliminate America’s use of precision-guided munitions—for a few hours, until the orbits of other GPS satellites take them over the Taiwan Straits<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Quite quickly, the constellation’s other 23 satellites would fill in the gap due to their normal orbital movement<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even if it destroyed 16 satellites, China could still only interrupt GPS over the Straits for about eight hours.10 During the other 16 hours, there would be the four or more satellites present over the target area for bombing runs, unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) flights, and ship tracking. This pattern of eight hours off followed by 16 hours when GPS could be used would be repeated every day until new satellites are launched. This outage would certainly cause difficulties; GPS guides precision bombs, helps pilot UAV spy planes, and navigate ships. U.S. casualties might increase, with air crews forced to fly missions during daylight hours, and conduct some of the dangerous missions now flown by robotic planes. No American commander would want to face this situation, though it would not be catastrophic. Further, it would not eliminate precision weaponry, UAVs, or any other American activity that depends on GPS. Keep in mind that </span>this is the worst of the worst-case scenarios<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>It is highly unlikely that China could remove all the satellites over the conflict area at the same time<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. After all, </span>attacking 16 satellites, all in different orbits with ASATs launched on just four different rockets involves some complex orbital maneuvers.A much more likely scenario is that, at best, China could destroy four GPS satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the initial wave followed roughly seven hours later by four more, a third wave at roughly 45 minutes after that, and the final wave two hours later. Thus, the GPS attack is spread over ten hours and never eliminates all the satellites visible over the area of conflict at the same time. </span>This Chinese attack on U.S. navigation satellites would not eliminate or even significantly degrade the U.S. ability to use precision-guided munitions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==Case- Hegemony== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The idea that weaponization is inevitable is false – the U.S. is the only one that can start it and other countries don’t have capability </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Park 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — Andrew T. Park, J.D. Candidate at the University of Houston Law Center, holds an M.A. from New York University and a B.A. from Columbia University, this article received the 2005 Strasburger & Price, L.L.P. Award for Outstanding Comment in International Law, 2006 (“Incremental Steps for Achieving Space Security: The Need for a New Way of Thinking to Enhance the Legal Regime for Space,” //Houston Journal of International Law//, Volume 28, Issue 1, Spring, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Hein Online) SB</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2000, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld chaired the Commission to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The Commission warned of a "space Pearl Harbor" if the United States did not move to defend its space assets.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (89) The statement above from the Rumsfeld Commission summarized the sentiment of many hawks in the United States about the need to achieve space dominance in order to achieve the best possible space security. (90) Accordingly, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">this view of space by weapons proponents not only justifies military support missions, but also lends support to the justifiable application of military force through the use of weapons</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stationed in space. (91) </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The fallacy of the inevitability argument is that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in the short run at least, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">is the only country that possesses the resources and capabilities necessary to deploy space weapons</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (92) </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This has never been the case in American history</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As one historian notes, from the "development of ironclad warships in the 1860s, Dreadnought battleships after 1900, or atomic weapons in the 1940s," different nations were simultaneously developing the same technology. (93) This left a choice to the different governments to either take the lead in the arms race or get passed by. (94) </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">In the space weapons debate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in contrast, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">"the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">can unilaterally </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[for the time being] </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">choose whether space will be weaponized</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." (95) Consequently, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">controls the inevitability of space weaponization</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This conviction is dangerously close to evolving into a self-fulfilling prophecy that simply cannot be refuted. (96) </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">While the realms of air, land, and sea have already been weaponized,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> presumably irrevocably so, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">they have become so as a result of three very different paths.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (97) Moreover, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The question of whether weaponization will occur is still yet to be determined, but it will undoubtedly be affected by the decisions of U.S. military space policymakers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the coming years. (99) Because the choices ahead are so important, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">it would be irresponsible of the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">to rely solely on an argument lacking in critical analysis and "based upon little more than superficial historical analogies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and glib strategic aphorisms." (100) </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The bottom line is that the use of the word "inevitable," in the context of the weaponization of space, is dangerous simply because there are too many variables to be able to discern the future with any degree of certainty at this point</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (101) </span>

2. Inevitability is ridiculous – if an attack were to occur, ground based stations would come first
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lowery 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — Scott Lowery, Graduate Student at the University of Colorado’s Program for Writing and Rhetoric, 2007 (“Why the Weaponization of Space Should Not Be Pursued,” Occasional Paper for the University of Colorado’s Program for Writing and Rhetoric, Available Online at http://www.colorado.edu/ArtsSciences/PWR/occasions/articles/Lowery_Why%20the%20Weaponization%20of%20Space%20Should%20Not%20Be%20Pursued.pdf, Accessed 07-16-2011) SB</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> final and </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">most solid case for inevitability rests on the fact that space assets are an excellent military target</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">and attacking them would be an effective precursor</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to terrestrial warfare. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The argument has some merit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as it has been shown that space plays a key role in the abilities of the US military. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The argument states that if the US does not develop space weapons, someone else will</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, placing the US at a disadvantage. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">This is </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">reasonable but </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">not conclusive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> If an enemy did want to disrupt US space power, it would not necessarily need to weaponize space. The earth-based portions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of space systems, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">such as ground control stations and communication dishes, are equally vulnerable and can be destroyed with existing, far cheaper systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: a few men with bombs can disable a satellite network just as well as a ballistic missile. In summary, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the arguments for inevitability fall short of being substantive, relying on little more than the “sky is falling mentality”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Belote). </span>

3. Cooperation solves weaponization
Lewis, 11 - Senior Fellow and Director Technology and Public Policy Program Center for Strategic and International Studies (James, High Frontier, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy,” February, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]]

The Obama administration changed course away from forceful unilateralism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The hallmark of this change can be found in the May 2010 National Security Strategy and its emphasis on “pursuing comprehensive engagement.” This emphasis on engagement in the National Security Strategy shapes the NSP, which lays out four major premises to address the problems of sustainability, governance, and leadership. These are: • An emphasis on engagement and perhaps cooperation. • The development of principles for responsible behavior. • An emphasis on commercial and entrepreneurial space activities for innovation and the provision of services. • A rebalancing of emphasis between manned and unmanned space activities. </span>The immediate effect of the new space policy is to signal US intentions and shape US international efforts to focus on improved governance, including increased and cooperative space situational awareness, debris mitigation, and codes of conduct for responsible behavior in space.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These are all attainable objectives. </span>US engagement in creating a new governance framework for space, based on situational awareness, codes of conduct, and confidence-building measures will get immediate traction<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This is different from immediate progress. None of the existing fora for space governance are strong. They will have either to be rebuilt or replaced. </span>The US will need to measure carefully what it will offer against what it would want (and could get) in exchange from potential opponents<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A simple metric for negotiation is to say that any code of conduct that wins rapid acceptance probably is not very valuable. A serious code will require countries to move slowly as they assess benefits and potential losses. </span>Increased space situational awareness will be an important component of being able to verify <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(to some degree) </span>compliance with any norms or codes of conduct<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Since most antisatellite programs are classified, they are likely to continue in some form or another with or without norms (e.g., there will be a strong temptation to “cheat”), but this is not a new problem in arms control. The current policy that anti-satellite research is allowable, but testing is not, may be the best starting point for any effort to constrain opponents, and </span>situational awareness, by increasing the chances that a test would be detected, could reinforce norms. A US effort to reshape the space environment through international engagement will produce beneficial outcomes for international space governance and US space operations<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, if we were to predict where the Obama NSP will succeed and where it will face difficulty, the dividing line is between efforts to improve governance, which are likely to show some progress, and efforts to improve sustainability. The US has wrestled with sustainability since the end of the high levels of expenditures on space associated with the Cold War.</span>

4. Realism is consistent with cooperation – the combination of interest convergence and active attempts to solidify relationships in space can make cooperation sustainable, despite realism
Huntley et al 10 – US Naval Postgraduate School (Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Science Direct)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This observation casts light on the common view that ambitions to create a binding space governance regime merely reflect idealist aspirations for global cooperation. But </span>states supporting treaty-based restraints on space weapons development typically have made appraisals of their national space security interests just as realist<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as those by the USA. The different responses to these concerns by these countries reflect the differences in the content of their interests and in their relative capabilities to pursue them.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The USA, as the dominant military space actor, often expresses a familiar ‘‘great power’’ response to space security developments. Other countries’ perspectives may differ along three dimensions. First, they face the consequences of possessing less - or no - capacity to redress their space security concerns by their own resources.17 Second, </span>their interests may include more relative attention to civil and commercial space activities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>with space security concerns limited to the prerequisite of a peaceful space environment in which to conduct those activities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Finally, they may worry that, because of their smaller role, their interests may be abused not only from others’ malice but from their ignorance and neglect. States for which these differences hold take the perspective of ‘‘lesser powers’’ with respect to space security. Each of these differences motivates lesser powers to pursue their interests through some form of structured relationship, which may include either exclusive alliances or inclusive regimes.18</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The particular nature of space-related issues exaggerates these tendencies. All states have an equivalent ‘‘proximity’’ to space, and many, as consumers of space-based communications and imaging products, tend to perceive immediate interests in activities there. For this reason, weaker states tend to view the consequences of conflict in space in absolute rather than proximate terms, even if their capacity to influence events in space is particularly limited akin to weaker states’ outlooks on nuclear conflict. </span>This convergence <span style="font-size: 8pt;">between particular and generalized interests </span>induces these states to perceive broadly shared interests; in turn, the absolute nature of the consequences of space conflict increases the perceived utility of broad-based multilateral collaboration<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (versus exclusive alliances). Hence, </span>advocacy of shared international principles and multilateral agreements by such states reflects a realistic response<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the particular circumstances they face.</span>
The ‘‘realism’’ of the appeal among lesser-powered states of treaty-based regime solutions to space weaponization concerns underscores <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the observation, noted above, </span>that ‘‘great’’ and ‘‘lesser’’ powers share a similar diagnosis of the underlying space security condition: namely, that <span style="font-size: 8pt;">inevitable technological advancement combined with</span> the anarchic rivalry of states will, in the absence of restraint, lead <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ineluctably </span>to the weaponization of space.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These outlooks vary less on the nature of the political forces driving current circumstances than on the possibility and desirability of containing those forces. Hence, the alternative to weaponization is sometimes presented as the preservation of space as a peaceful ‘‘sanctuary’’, holding at bay the terrestrial pressures that would otherwise invade the pristine space environment.19</span>
This presumption <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that weaponry and warfare in space can be prevented only by restraining the endemic forces of human conflict</span> suggests a limitation of vision<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The concept is one of straightforward negation, as in a dike holding back a surging sea or a wall resisting encroaching hordes. Negation goals omit the prospect that the underlying pressures themselves may be in some manner relieved. With respect to space security, this means addressing whether the security dynamics generating potential for weaponization and conflict in space might be redressed at a deeper, more self-sustaining level than dependence upon static treaty structures allows.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That deeper level involves the dynamic nature of state interests themselves. Most proposals for international cooperation in space security activities, whether a full-fledged formal PAROS-like treaty, or more modest arrangements to fashion ‘‘rules of the road’’, emphasize the potential to realize states’ existing common interests. Such cooperation, even when institutionalized, may endure only so long as the underlying interest convergence persists; and given the energetic expansion and evolving nature of the human presence in space, the persistence of interest convergence cannot be assumed. As circumstances move tectonically, the energies required to keep intact the structures built upon those foundations increase to a point of unsustainability. Conflict’s trumping of regimes remains, in some sense, inevitable.20</span>
Few space security analysts have focused on the possibilities for cooperation to function more organically as an element of the evolution of human space activities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, rather than simply as a structure applied to that evolution. </span>The more organic possibility reflects the potential over time for cooperative agreements and institutions to change state interests themselves. Processes facilitating such evolution include strategic interest convergence, information creation and sharing, ‘‘spillover’’ and ‘‘feedback’’ effects, issue scope expansion and integration, and the facilitation of transnational linkages<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Interacting synergistically with the interests they are influencing, such cooperation evolves dynamically as well. </span>As such cooperation deepens its roots among all parties, it can begin to endure self-sustainably<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.21</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The potential for more organic principles and cooperative institutions to shape the nature of political relations themselves suggests a more expansive concept of the underlying nature of interstate relations - one that need not always resemble the realist image of a Hobbesian ‘‘war of all against all’’. Hedley Bull’s ‘‘anarchical society’’ and Daniel Deudney’s ‘‘negarchy,’’ for example, capture the past and present existence of international political orders that, despite the absence of hierarchical government, have functioned as qualitatively distinct governance systems.22 Application of concepts of qualitatively distinct political ordering principles to developing governance conditions of the future human presence in space is as yet largely unexplored.23 </span>The fluidity of interests and capabilities with respect to space activities suggests a relatively large potential for organized cooperation to influence their evolution. Such cooperative principles and institutions would then become intrinsic to the dynamic political forces shaping the expanding human presence in space, growing and evolving with them, rather than acting as exogenous static structures seeking to constrain those forces.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">24 </span>

Hegemony solves nothing – past two decades prove
Mearsheimer 2011 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John J., R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, The National Interest, Imperial by Design, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One year later, Charles </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Krauthammer emphasized in "The Unipolar Moment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">" that the United States had emerged from the Cold War as by far the most powerful country on the planet.2 He urged American leaders not to be reticent about using that power "to lead a unipolar world, unashamedly laying down the rules of world order and being prepared to enforce them." Krauthammer's advice fit neatly with Fukuyama's vision of the future: the United States should take the lead in bringing democracy to less developed countries the world over. After all, that shouldn't be an especially difficult task given that America had awesome power and the cunning of history on its side. U.S. grand strategy has followed this basic prescription for the past twenty years, mainly because most policy makers inside the Beltway have agreed with the thrust of Fukuyama's and Krauthammer's early analyses. The results, however, have been disastrous. The United States has been at war for a startling two out of every three years since 1989, and there is no end in sight. As anyone with a rudimentary knowledge of world events knows, countries that continuously fight wars invariably build powerful national-security bureaucracies that undermine civil liberties and make it difficult to hold leaders accountable for their behavior; and they invariably end up adopting ruthless policies normally associated with brutal dictators. The Founding Fathers understood this problem, as is clear from James Madison's observation that "no nation can preserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare." Washington's pursuit of policies like assassination, rendition and torture over the past decade, not to mention the weakening of the rule of law at home, shows that their fears were justified. To make matters worse, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States is now engaged in protracted wars</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Afghanistan and Iraq that have so far cost well over a trillion dollars and resulted in around forty-seven thousand American casualties. The pain and suffering inflicted on Iraq has been enormous. Since the war began in March 2003, more than one hundred thousand Iraqi civilians have been killed, roughly 2 million Iraqis have left the country and 1.7 million more have been internally displaced. Moreover, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the American military is not going to win either one of these conflicts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, despite all the phony talk about how the "surge" has worked in Iraq and how a similar strategy can produce another miracle in Afghanistan. We may well be stuck in both quagmires for years to come, in fruitless pursuit of victory. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States has also been unable to solve</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> three other major </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">foreign-policy problems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Washington has worked overtime-with no success-to shut down Iran's uranium-enrichment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> capability for fear that it might lead to Tehran acquiring nuclear weapons. And </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States, unable to prevent North Korea from acquiring nuclear weapons in the first place, now seems incapable of compelling Pyongyang to give them up</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Finally, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">every</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> post-Cold War </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">administration has tried and failed to settle the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; all indicators are that this problem will deteriorate further</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as the West Bank and Gaza are incorporated into a Greater Israel. The unpleasant truth is that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States is in a world of trouble today on the foreign-policy front</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and this state of affairs is only likely to get worse in the next few years, as Afghanistan and Iraq unravel and the blame game escalates to poisonous levels. Thus, it is hardly surprising that a recent Chicago Council on Global Affairs survey found that "looking forward 50 years, only 33 percent of Americans think the United States will continue to be the world's leading power." Clearly, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the heady days of the early 1990s have given way to a pronounced pessimism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Hegemony not key, small conflicts deescalate
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard </span>Haas<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(president of the Council on Foreign Relations, former director of policy planning for the Department of State, former vice president and director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, the Sol M. Linowitz visiting professor of international studies at Hamilton College, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, and a research associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies) April </span>2008<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Ask the Expert: What Comes After Unipolarity?” [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/16063/ask_the_expert.html]]</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Does a non polar world increase </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">or reduce </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the chances of another world war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">? </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Will </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nuclear </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">deterrence continue to prevent a large scale conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">? Sivananda Rajaram, UK Richard Haass: I believe </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the chance of a world war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, i.e., one involving the major powers of the day, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">is remote and likely to stay that way</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This reflects more than anything else the absence of disputes or goals that could lead to such a conflict. Nuclear deterrence might be a contributing factor in the sense that </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">no conceivable dispute among the major powers would justify any use of nuclear weapons, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">but again, I believe </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the fundamental reason great power relations are relatively good is that all hold a stake in sustaining an international order that supports trade and financial flows and avoids large-scale conflict. The danger in a nonpolar world is not global conflict </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">as we feared during the Cold War </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">but smaller </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">but still highly costly </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">conflicts </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">involving terrorist groups, militias, rogue states, etc. </span>
==Case- Industrial Base== 

Economic decline doesn’t cause war
Deudney <span style="color: black;">91 – Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and</span>
<span style="color: black;">Environmental Studies, Princeton (Daniel, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Poverty Wars. In a second scenario, declining living standards first cause internal turmoil. then war. If groups at all levels of affluence protect their standard of living by pushing deprivation on other groups class war and revolutionary upheavals could result. Faced with these pressures, liberal democracy and free market systems could increasingly be replaced by authoritarian systems capable of maintaining minimum order.9 If authoritarian regimes are more war-prone because they lack democratic control, and if revolutionary regimes are warprone because of their ideological fervor and isolation, then the world is likely to become more violent. </span>The record of previous depressions supports the proposition that widespread economic stagnation and unmet economic expectations contribute to international conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Although initially compelling, this scenario has major flaws<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>One is that it is arguably based on unsound economic theory<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Wealth is formed not <span style="font-size: 8pt;">so much </span>by the availability of cheap natural resources <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as by capital formation through savings and more efficient production. </span>Many resource-poor countries<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, like Japan, </span>are very wealthy, while many countries with more extensive resources are poor<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Environmental constraints require an end to economic growth based on growing use of raw materials, but not necessarily an end to growth in the production of goods and services. </span>In addition, economic decline does not necessarily produce conflict.How societies respond to economic decline may largely depend upon the rate at which such declines occur<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>And as people get poorer, they may become less willing to spend scarce resources for military forces<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>As<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bernard </span>Brodie observed<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> about the modein era, </span>“The predisposing factors to military aggression are full bellies, not empty ones<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”’” </span>The experience of economic depressions over the last two centuries may be irrelevant, because such depressions were characterized by under-utilized production capacity and falling resource prices<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>In the 1930 increased military spending stimulated economies, but<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> if economic growth is retarded by environmental constraints, </span>military spending will exacerbate the problem<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Power Wars. A third scenario is that environmental degradation might cause war by altering the relative power of states; that is, newly stronger states may be tempted to prey upon the newly weaker ones, or weakened states may attack and lock in their positions before their power ebbs firther. But such alterations might not lead to war as readily as the lessons of history suggest, </span>because economic power and military power are not as tightly coupled as in the past. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The economic power positions of Germany and Japan have changed greatly since World War 11, but these changes have not been accompanied by war or threat of war. </span>In the contemporary world, whole industries rise, fall, and relocate, causing substantialfluctuations in the economic well-being of regions and peoples without producing wars.There is no reason to believe that changes in relative wealth and power <span style="font-size: 8pt;">caused by the uneven impact of environmental degradation </span>would inevitably lead to war<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Even if<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> environmental </span>degradation were to destroy the basic <span style="font-size: 8pt;">social and </span>economic fabric of a country <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or region, </span>the impact on international order may not be very great. Among the first casualties in such country would be the capacity to wage war.The poor and wretched<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the earth may be able to deny an outside aggressor an easy conquest, but they </span>are themselves a minimal threat to other states.Contemporary offensive military operations require complex organizational skills, specialized industrial products and surplus wealth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Economic decline ends rivalries, resources are reallocated
Bennett and Nordstrom 2000– department of political science at Penn State

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (D Scott and Timothy, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems that leaders in rivalries may pursue when faced with internal problems. </span>Military competition <span style="font-size: 8pt;">between states </span>requires large amounts of resources, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and rivals require even more attention. </span>Leaders may choose to negotiate a settlement that ends a rivalry to free up important resources that may be reallocated to the domestic economy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In a "guns versus butter" world of economic trade-offs, </span>when a state can no longer afford to pay the expenses associated with competition in a rivalry, it is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> quite </span>rational for leadersto<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reduce costs by </span>end<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ing </span>a rivalry<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This gain (a peace dividend) could be achieved at any time by ending a rivalry. However, such a gain is likely to be most important and attractive to leaders when internal conditions are bad and the leader is seeking ways to alleviate active problems. </span>Support for policy change away from continued rivalryis<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>likely to develop when the economic situation sours and elites and masses are looking for ways to improve a worsening situation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is at these times that the pressure to cut military investment will be greatest and that state leaders will be forced to recognize the difficulty of continuing to pay for a rivalry. Among other things, </span>this argument<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>encompasses the view that the cold war ended because the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>


1. Space contracting can’t save the industrial base
Sterner, 10<span style="color: black;"> - fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He was a senior professional staff member on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as NASA's associate deputy administrator of policy and planning (Eric, World Politics Review, “</span>Tending the Forge of American Space Power,” 6/15,
[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5793/tending-the-forge-of-american-space-power]]

<span style="color: black;">The industry also faces difficulties in the manner that contracts are awarded</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Increasingly, to simplify and expedite the contracting process, </span><span style="color: black;">the government awards multi-year, winner-take-all contracts</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. While this process can reduce the administrative burden and uncertainty of frequent competitions, </span><span style="color: black;">it</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span style="color: black;">creates a situation in which the losers in a particular bid face multi-year dry-spells in which they may have no significant government work. As a result, they are forced to release design teams, lay off skilled laborers, and dispose of, or mothball, physical plant.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> More often than not, those capabilities cannot be reconstituted, except at extraordinarily high prices. As a result, talent is not available for future bids, and the overall size of the industrial base shrinks. The nature of space systems compounds the problem. </span><span style="color: black;">Unlike other systems, once launched, space systems cannot be "maintained</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">." </span><span style="color: black;">Thus, there is no post-deployment, hands-on work on a spacecraft that often enables a contractor to maintain critical skill-sets</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Moreover, because so much is riding on each launch event, they are few and far between. Thus, there is an extremely limited number of opportunities for those entities that constitute the industrial base to practice their trade and enhance skill-sets. </span><span style="color: black;">The industry's future is at risk</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> as well. </span><span style="color: black;">Its workforce is aging, yet low flight rates and the industry's contraction over recent decades have limited the number of opportunities for younger engineers to acquire the technical and management skills possessed by their predecessors</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Often, </span><span style="color: black;">talented younger personnel simply leave the industry. Consequently, there is a risk of leadership shortages in the future</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Meanwhile, for those engineers, skilled manufacturers, and scientists who stay in the community, </span><span style="color: black;">the feast-or-famine distribution of work among contractors often creates a migrant workforce, in which individuals follow the work from contractor to contractor</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. While this mobility may create learning opportunities and foster the spread of some knowledge, it also retards the development of corporate knowledge and expertise.</span>

2. Increased space spending empirically doesn’t help the industrial base
<span style="color: black;">Sterner, 10 - fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He was a senior professional staff member on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as NASA's associate deputy administrator of policy and planning (Eric, World Politics Review, “</span>Tending the Forge of American Space Power,” 6/15,
[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5793/tending-the-forge-of-american-space-power]]

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> There is no easy way out of this situation. It is tempting to view potential solutions through the prism of resources. </span><span style="color: black;">The last decade</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span><span style="color: black;">has seen real growth in U.S. aerospace spending in general, and space spending in particular. Yet, problems in the space industrial base continued to grow</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="color: black;">Most of the additional resources went to pay for cost-growth in existing programs, many of which were ultimately cancelled. Similarly, flight rates did not increase appreciably</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, meaning there were not significant new opportunities for people to enter the workforce or incentives for firms and individuals to remain in the space sector. In other words, </span><span style="color: black;">increased funding may be necessary to address industrial base problems, but it clearly is not sufficient. </span>

3. The military won’t drive the commercial small satellite sector
Fuller et al, 11 – founder and President of Futron Corporation, which specializes in innovative business and technology solutions for aerospace, defense, and transportation. He has 20 years of experience with NASA as an aerospace systems engineer, project manager (Joseph, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Small satellites are a key emerging technology area in the satellite manufacturing sector. The ability to conduct functions currently handled by larger satellites using smaller, lighter payloads promises to increase payload versatility while reducing manufacturing and launch costs. While smallsats promise advantages due to their launch and operational flexibility, their strategic value has not yet been demonstrated in operational scenarios. </span>The U.S. military has funded the building and test launch of several smallsats, and numerous universities worldwide have designed 1-kilogram cube-shaped satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for similar experimental missions. These have been used mainly for technology development rather than commercial applications. </span>While there will continue to be military, scientific, and nonprofit interest in smallsat technologies, the manufacturing tempo of small satellites appears unlikely to increase significantly until their commercial viability has been demonstrated<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


=Earth Observation Satellites Negative= 

==1NC ESA Counterplan== 

**ESA has EOS capabilities.**
**ESA 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6 December 2010 ‘Climate scientists highlight ESA Climate Change Initiative’ <http://www.esa.int/esaEO/SEMIOGOR9HG_index_0.html>//DoeS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As world negotiators gather at the climate summit in Cancun, Mexico, to tackle climate change, scientists are demonstrating how long-term satellite data provide unique information to help policymakers understand and manage climate change. During the summit, </span>ESA held a side event focusing on its Climate Change Initiative (CCI), which is making full use of Europe’s Earth observation space assets to exploit robust long-term global records of essential climate variables. The Climate Change Initiative makes use of archive data going back three decades from ESA and Member-State satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These datasets, combined with data from new missions, are used </span>to produce new information on a wide range of climate variables, such as greenhouse-gas concentrations, sea-ice extent and thickness, and sea-surface temperature and salinity. Renowned climate experts spoke at the event to explain how the CCI will provide consistent data to help scientists improve the understanding of climate change<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. "Monitoring sea-level rise from space using altimeter satellites is very important; we know that sea level is currently rising in response to global warming, and that the rate is accelerating. Sea level will continue to rise in the future. But how much? We don’t know,” said Dr Anny Cazenave, Senior Scientist at Laboratoire d’Etudes en Géophysique et Océanographie Spatiales. "Climate model projections are still very uncertain, mostly because the future behaviour of the Greenland and Antarctica ice sheets is unknown. </span>The ESA Sea Level CCI project will contribute to constraining climate models used for sea-level projections, to quantify current acceleration rates and, eventually, to detect the anthropogenic warming signature."<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Prof. Emilio Chuvieco of Spain’s Universidad de Alcalá explained that biomass burning, which includes forest fires and agricultural burnings, is one of the most critical factors for understanding current vegetation patterns because humans have historically used fires to adapt land conditions to their uses. "Currently, greenhouse gas emissions from fires are a basic component of atmospheric composition, since it is estimated that between 25% and </span>40% of all carbon dioxide, a major greenhouse gas, is emitted from burnings. "The ESA Fire CCI project intends to provide an accurate and consistent evaluation of burned areas globally using European Earth observation sensors. The outputs of this project will be used by climate-vegetation modellers<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to improve their current estimations of global vegetation and atmospheric conditions related to fire." Roger Saunders, Senior Earth Observation Scientist at the UK Met Office Hadley Centre, talked about bridging the gap between satellite datasets and climate models. "</span>Earth observation satellite data have been available for over 30 years but their use for improving climate model predictions has been very limited up to now <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in contrast to their widespread use for short range weather forecasts. "ESA is now working with key climate modelling centres in Europe to bring together the satellite and climate modelling communities to realise the full benefits of satellite data for improving climate predictions." Data on these essential climate variables are required by the Global Climate Observing System to support the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. </span>

==2NC A2: Data Sharing== 

**The ESA can do the plan and the data is shared __across the world__ – they’ve been doing it for __decades__**
**ESA No Date Cited**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ([[http://www.esa.int/esaKIDSen/SEMZHFXJD1E_UsefulSpace_0.html]]) MFR </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>weather can<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> suddenly </span>change<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for the worse</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, so it is vital that forecasters receive continuous updates from space. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Every 15 minutes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, day or night, </span>Europe's Meteosat-9 sends<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> back </span>images<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of weather across</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> almost </span>one third of the world.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Perched 36 000 km above West Africa, it looks down on the same area all the time. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A standby satellite </span>is always waiting nearby to take over if a problem occurs.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Visual, infrared</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (heat), </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">water vapour and other crucial data are sent to the Meteosats operator</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Eumetsat. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Theraw data are processed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Darmstadt, Germany, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">then sent to users</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Since October 2006, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">weather data have also been sent back by Europe’s MetOp-A satellite. Data from thispolar orbiter are relayed via a ground station</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the Norwegian island of Spitsbergen. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Images and information about the atmosphere and the oceans are also sent continuously to the ground </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for local users. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Europe's satellites are </span>part of a global weather watch<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Many different </span>countries share information<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> from their satellites. The </span>Meteosats<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> have also </span>helped Europe's partners<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in other ways. </span>When an American satellite failed in 1991, Meteosat-3 crossed the Atlantic to take over its duties. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1998, Meteosat-5 was moved over the Indian Ocean. As part of an international experiment, it helped to monitor this area, which is famous for its monsoons. </span>

==2NC A2: No Tech== 

**Europe has the technological capabilities to shoot better satellites into space – recent tests prove**
**Macintosh**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 8/9/</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Zoë, Staffwriter “Europe's Next Weather Satellite Passes Vacuum Test” [[http://www.space.com/8911-europe-weather-satellite-passes-vacuum-test.html]]) MFR </span>

A<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">European </span>weather satellite<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> has </span>passed a vital vacuum test to prove it is fit for<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the rigors of </span>space<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the European Space Agency has announced. With the month-long test complete, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the satellite</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ? </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">called MetOp-B</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ? </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is </span>now a step closer to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> being ready to </span>launch<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in spring 2012 as planned. The instrument, </span>built by the //E//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">uropean </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">pace </span>//A//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">gency </span>endured temperatures<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ranging from over 212 degrees Fahrenheit (100 degrees Celsius) to minus 184 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 120 degrees Celsius), </span>simulating the harsh environment<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> it will encounter </span>in Earth orbit<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Some of MetOp-B?s sensors work under much colder conditions still</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, because they are actively cooled for optimal performance verification" said ESA MetOp program manager Luciano Di Napoli in a statement. </span>The satellite will house<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a group of </span>sensitive instruments<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> needed </span>to collect//continuous data on temperature, humidity, cloud cover and gases in the atmosphere of our planet.// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These data are </span>essential for //operational meteorology and climate research//,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> said lead researcher Rob Oremus. The vacuum test was conducted at ESA?s Large Space Simulator at the European Space Research and Technology Centre in the Netherlands, which houses a vacuum chamber large enough to hold a double-decker bus standing upright. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"Now that the module has overcome the vacuum test, </span>//**the path is clear for the run-up to the launch,"**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Oremus said. After more tests and outfitting work, MetOp-B is scheduled to launch atop a Russian Soyuz rocket</span>

==1NC Warming Defense== 


**1. Warming is a hoax**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**BELL 1-5-2011** (Larry, Prof at U of Houston, Forbes, [[http://www.forbes.com/2011/01/03/climate-change-hoax-opinions-contributors-larry-bell.html]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I've encountered some folks who appear offended by the title of my new book Climate of Corruption: Politics and Power Behind the Global Warming Hoax. Why do you call it a "hoax"? they ask. Why not refer to the matter as a debate? The reason is quite simple: A </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">debate describes a discussion in which participants</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> competitively </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">argue opposing points</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of view that are assumed to be </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">based upon honest positions. A hoax is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">deceptive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> act intended </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to hoodwink people through</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> deliberate </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">misinformation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including factual omissions. My book is about the latter. (And by the way, it can be ordered through primary vendors, and is currently being featured on "new releases" tables at 200 major Barnes and Noble stores.) The central lie is that </span>we are experiencing a<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> known human-caused climate </span>crisis<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a claim </span>//**based on speculative theories, contrived data and totally unproven modeling predictions**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And the evidence? Much is revealed by politically corrupted processes and agenda-driven report conclusions rendered by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which are trumpeted in the media as authoritative gospel. S. Fred Singer, former director of the U.S. Weather Satellite Service and University of Virginia professor emeritus commented about these sorry circumstances in the foreword of my book, stating in part: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"Many would place the beginning of the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> global </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">warming hoax on the Senate testimony</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> delivered by James Hansen of NASA [director of the Goddard Institute for Space Studies] during the summer of 1988. More than anything else, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this </span>exhibition of hyped alarm triggered my active skepticism<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> about the man-made global warming scare</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This skepticism was amplified when I acted as reviewer of the first three IPCC reports, in 1990, 1996, and 2001. Increasingly </span>claims were made for which there was no evidence<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; in some cases the 'evidence' was </span>//**clearly manufactured**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example, </span>the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1966 </span>report used selective data and doctored graphs<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. It</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>featured changes in the text<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that were </span>made after<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>scientists<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> had </span>approved it<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and before it was printed."</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Other </span>fraud is evident through<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> public exposure of e</span>-mail files<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> retrieved from the Climate Research Unit (CRU) at Britain's University of East Anglia. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Scandalous exchanges among</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> prominent researchers </span>who<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">fomented</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> global warming </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">hysteria </span>confirm<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> long-standing and broadly suspected </span>manipulations of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> climate </span>data<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">communications</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>reveal conspiracies to falsify and withhold information<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to </span>suppress contraryfindings<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in scholarly publications, and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to </span>exaggerate<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>existence and threats of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> man-made global </span>warming<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Many of these individuals have had major influence over summary report findings issued by the IPCC. Still </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">other evidence comes from mouths of government officials, international climate summit organizers and leading science spokespeople recorded in candid public admissions.</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**2. Warming is natural**</span>

**__BELL__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">11-3-</span>**__2010__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry, Prof at U Houston, http://www.forbes.com/2010/11/02/global-warming-climate-change-al-gore-opinions-columnists-larry-bell.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yes, there is no doubt about it</span>__. The planet is experiencing a siege of abnormally high temperatures. This has now been going on for 15,000 to 18,000 years, a life-friendly period known as an interglacial cycle__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. During glacial ages that exist about 90% of the time, our Northern Hemisphere is mostly covered with ice up to several miles thick. </span>__Records of these alternating glacial and interglacial fluctuations reveal the near regularity of an electrocardiogram over many hundreds of thousands of years … beginning long before__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the man-made inventions of agriculture, smokestacks, SUVs and </span>__carbon offset trading scams__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And just how abnormally warm is it now? Let's consider some "recent" comparisons. </span>__Temperatures are probably about the same today as during a "Roman Warm Period__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" slightly more than </span>__2,000 years ago__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and much warmer than the "Dark Ages" that followed. </span>__They are cooler than the "Medieval Warm Period"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> about 1,000 years ago when Eric the Red and his Icelandic Viking tribe settled on grasslands of Greenland's southwestern coast, and much warmer than about 400 years ago when the Northern Hemisphere plunged into depths of a "Little Ice Age" (not a true Ice Age). Near the end of that period Washington's army suffered brutal cold at Valley Forge (1777), and Napoleon's, a frigid retreat from Russia (1812).</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**3. Warming inevitable – we’ve passed the tipping point**</span>

**CLICK GREEN 1-7-2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk/opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)</span>

New research indicates __the impact of rising CO2 levels in the Earth's atmosphere will cause unstoppable effects to the climate for at least the next 1000 years__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__causing researchers to estimate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a collapse of the West Antarctic ice sheet by the year 3000, and </span>__an eventual rise in the global sea level of at least four metres.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The study, to be published next week, is the first full climate model simulation to make predictions out to 1000 years from now. </span>__It is based on best-case, 'zero-emissions' scenarios constructed by a team of researchers from the Canadian Centre for Climate Modelling and Analysis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (an Environment Canada research lab at the University of Victoria) </span>__and the University of Calgary__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. "We created 'what if' scenarios," says Dr. Shawn Marshall, Canada Research Chair in Climate Change and University of Calgary geography professor. "</span>__What if we completely stopped using fossil fuels and put no more CO2 in the atmosphere? How long would it then take to reverse current climate change trends and will things first become worse?" The research team explored zero-emissions scenarios beginning in 2010__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and in 2100.</span>



**4. CO2 not key to warming – cooling through photosynthesis**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Philip </span>**Haddad**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> June 22, </span>**2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD Chem. E. retd. Carbon Dioxide does not Cause Global Warming! http://www.alvinsun.net/articles/2011/06/22/opinion/editorials/doc4e0228a53ed3d528547342.txt </span>

__There is a //**mistaken notion**// that carbon dioxide is the cause of global warming__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Although there is a clear correlation between the rate of rise of temperature and the rate of rise of carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere, this is because 80 percent of our energy comes from fossil fuels. The </span>__carbon dioxide is just an indicator of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all the </span>__energy consumed__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Where does all this energy go? It goes into the atmosphere. </span>__The real damage caused by the “carbon dioxide greenhouse” myth it now is assumed that any energy source that does not produce carbon dioxide is acceptable. Hogwash!__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Energy is heat. </span>__As a “greenhouse” gas, //**carbon dioxide is insignificant compared to water vapor**//.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For example, in arid regions the temperature swings from very hot in the day to frigid at night due to loss of heat through radiation. Yet </span>__the atmosphere__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> there </span>__has the same carbon dioxide concentration as the more humid areas. Furthermore, carbon dioxide provides cooling through photosynthesis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



**5. No solvency – international fragmentation and opposition**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Moore, ’98**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and the author of Climate of Fear published by the Cato Institute, writer for Heartland Institute (Thomas Gale Moore, CATO Institute, 25 March 1998, “Climate of Fear,” Print)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover,</span> __if steps are taken to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, whether justified or not, </span>__they should be takenworldwide__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A pound of CO2 produced by backyard barbecues in Iowa has the same effect as a pound of CO2 emitted from cooking stoves in India. </span>__The__ __greenhouse gas problem is an example par excellence of a global commons issue. If China exploits itsmammoth coal reserves__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to provide needed electricity for its billion people over the next century, the actions of t</span>__he U____nited States can have only a small effect on any future warming. Even if society believes that warming will__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, on net, </span>__be harmful, restraining the emission of greenhouse gases by any one country or small group of countries makes sense only if most other nations follow suit.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Should the United States impose taxes to reduce the use of fossil fuels, the benefit of doing so would be greater, the larger the number of other major nations joining in the restrictions. </span>__Free rider problems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—that is, the temptation to leave the burden to others— </span>__may make international agreement to abate emissions difficult if not impossible.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Unfortunately, </span>__the expectation that climate change would have a differential effect on various nations exacerbates the free rider problem. The Russians,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for example, </span>__have indicated that they would probably do well in a warmer world__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. On the other hand, island nations and c</span>__ountries with extensive low-lying land__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such as Bangladesh, </span>__fear that global warming would be devastating. Certain poor nations, such as China, for example, consider economic development more important than warding off possible climate change.__



__==1NC A2 No War==__

**War can happen**
**Ferguson 2008** - sr. fellow @ the Hoover Institute and professor of History @ Harvard (Niall, Hoover Digest no1 47-53 Wint 2008)
__The risk of a__ __major geopolitical crisis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 2007 is certainly lower than it was in 1914. Yet it </span>__is not so low as to lie__ __altogether beyond the realm of probability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The escalation of violence in the Middle East as Iraq disintegrates and Iran presses on with its nuclearprogram is close to being a certainty, as are the growing insecurity of Israel and the impossibility of any meaningful U.S. exit from the region__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__All may be harmonious between the United States and China today, yet the potential for tension over trade and exchange rates has unquestionably increased since the Democrats gained control of Congress__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Nor should we forget__ __about security flashpoints such as the independence of Taiwan, the threat of North Korea, and the nonnuclear status of Japan. To consign political risk to the realm of uncertainty seems almost as rash today as it was in the years leading up the First World War. Anglo-German economic commercial ties reached a peak in 1914, but geopolitics trumped economics. It often does.__



**Deterrence doesn’t check.**
**Krieger 2009 –** professor of politics (David, September 4th, “Still loving the Bomb After All these Years” Nuclear Age Peace Foundation [[https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger]])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Tepperman builds upon </span>__Waltz__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">’s logic, and concludes “that all states are rational,” even though their leaders may have a lot of bad qualities, including being “stupid, petty, venal, even evil….” He asks us to trust that rationality will always prevail when there is a risk of nuclear retaliation, because these weapons make “the costs of war obvious, inevitable, and unacceptable.” Actually</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, he </span>__is asking us to do more than trust in the rationality of leaders; he is asking us to gamble the future on this proposition__. “<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The iron logic of deterrence and mutually assured destruction is so compelling,” Tepperman argues, “it’s led to what’s known as the nuclear peace….” But if this is a peace worthy of the name, which it isn’t, it certainly is not one on which to risk the future of civilization. </span>__One irrational leader with control over a nuclear arsenal could start a nuclear conflagration, resulting in a global Hiroshima__. Tepperman celebrates “the iron logic of deterrence,” but __deterrence is a theory that is far from rooted in “iron logic.” It is a theory based upon threats that must be effectively communicated and believed. Leaders of Country A with nuclear weapons must communicate to other countries (B, C, etc.) the conditions under which A will retaliate with nuclear weapons__. __The leaders of the other countries must understand and believe the threat from Country A will, in fact, be carried out. The longer that nuclear weapons are not used, the more other countries may come to believe that they can challenge Country A with impunity from nuclear retaliation. The more that Country A bullies other countries, the greater the incentive for these countries to develop their own nuclear arsenals. Deterrence is unstable and therefore precarious__. __Most of the countries in the world reject the argument, made most prominently by Kenneth Waltz, that the spread of nuclear weapons makes the world safer. These countries joined together in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons__, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">but they never agreed to maintain indefinitely a system of nuclear apartheid in which some states possess nuclear weapons and others are prohibited from doing so. The principal bargain of the NPT requires the five NPT nuclear weapons states (US, Russia, UK, France and China) to engage in good faith negotiations for nuclear disarmament, and the International Court of Justice interpreted this to mean complete nuclear disarmament in all its aspects. Tepperman finds that when viewed from his “nuclear optimist” perspective, “nuclear weapons start to seem a lot less frightening.” “Nuclear peace,” he tells us, “rests on a scary bargain: you accept a small chance that something extremely bad will happen in exchange for a much bigger chance that something very bad – conventional war – won’t happen.” But</span> __the “extremely bad” thing he asks us to accept is the end of the human species__. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Yes, that would be serious. He also doesn’t make the case that in a world without nuclear weapons, the prospects of conventional war would increase dramatically. After all, it is only an unproven supposition that nuclear weapons have prevented wars, or would do so in the future. We have certainly come far too close to the precipice of catastrophic nuclear war. As an ultimate celebration of the faulty logic of deterrence, Tepperman calls for providing any nuclear weapons state with a “survivable second strike option.” Thus, he not only favors nuclear weapons, but finds the security of these weapons to trump human security. Presumably he would have President Obama providing new and secure nuclear weapons to North Korea, Pakistan and any other nuclear weapons states that come along so that they will feel secure enough not to use their weapons in a first-strike attack. Do we really want to bet the human future that Kim Jong-Il and his successors are more rational than Mr. Tepperman?</span>

**Nuclear war causes extinction**
SGR 2003 - Scientists for Global Responsibility (Newsletter, “Does anybody remember the Nuclear Winter?” July 27, [[http://www.sgr.org.uk/climate/NuclearWinter_NL27.htm]])
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Obviously, when a nuclear bomb hits a target, it causes a massive amount of devastation, with the heat, blast and radiation killing tens or hundreds of thousands of people instantly</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and causing huge damage to infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">But in addition to this, a nuclear explosion throws up massive amounts of dust and smoke. For example, a large nuclear bomb bursting at ground level would throw up about a million tonnes of dust.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As a consequence of a nuclear war, then, the dust and the smoke produced would block out a large fraction of the sunlight and the sun's heat from the earth's surface, so it would quickly become be dark and cold - temperatures would drop by something in the region of 10-20ºC - many places would feel like they were in an arctic winter. It would take months for the sunlight to get back to near normal. The drop in light and temperature would quickly kill crops and other plant and animal life while humans, already suffering from the direct effects of the war, would be vulnerable to malnutrition and disease on a massive scale</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">In the case of an (e.g.) accidental nuclear exchange between the USA and Russia, the main effects would be felt in the northern hemisphere</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">as the dust and smoke would quickly circulate across this area</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">But even in this case, it would soon affect the tropics - where crops and other plant/ animal life are especially sensitive to cold.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hence, even in these areas there would be major problems.</span>