[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
We start with some background information: the history of space travel in the United States has been based off of a model that attempts to regulate which bodies should do what, this system was used to prevent the Mercury 13, a group of females from participating in early space exploration
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sage 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">The masculine self-identity ...1962 – quoted in Kevles, 2003: 4). </span>


Normative gender binaries still exist within NASA due to heteronormative structures
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sage 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">It is important to note...</span>technical environments: the spacecraft.


This had caused male bodies to be viewed as the norm against which female bodies are judged and sets up a heteronormative system of norms in order to conquer for the good of everyone
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Griffin 9</span>
Penny __Griffin__, Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Australia, 20__09__, Securing Outer Space, ed. N. Bormann & Michael Sheehan, p. 73
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">The consistent discursive articulation ...</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">conquer for the good of everyone.</span>


NASA’s beliefs concerning sexuality shape the future of space and society
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moore and Casper ‘95</span>
[Casper, Monica J. and Moore, Lisa Jean, Monica J. Casper was awarded her Ph.D. in sociology in 1995 by UCSF and in 1996 completed a postdoctoral fellowship in biomedical ethics at Stanford University. She served several years as a faculty member in sociology at UC Santa Cruz, and in 2004 became director of women’s and gender studies at Vanderbilt University. Lisa Jean Moore, MPH in Epidemiology at The University of California, Berkeley, Ph.D. in Sociology at The University of California, San Francisco, BA of Sociology and English at Tufts University and a professor of Sociology and Gender Studies, at The State University of New York, School of Natural and Social Sciences. University of California Press, “Inscribing Bodies, Inscribing the Future: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space,” Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 38, No. 2 (Summer, 1995), pp. 311-333]
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">, as a total institution...off-limits nature of human sexuality.</span>


The heteronormative project seeks to eliminate difference, this culminates in omnicide
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sedgewick 8</span>
Eve __Sedgwick__, Professor of English at Duke University, __2008__, //Epistemology of the Closet//, second revised edition, California at Berkeley Press, p. 127-130
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">From at least the biblical story ...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">between minority potentials and </span>__

Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should send a space mission beyond the Earth’s mesosphere staffed entirely by females

1AC is key to analyzing and breaking down normative conceptions of gender
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sage 2009</span>
Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, “Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender”,
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Popular portrayals of American spaceflight ...NASA and (iii) female astronauts.</span>


The method of the 1AC is crucial to generating any real change – only by generating change in thought can we have any real change
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kritzman 88</span>
Lawrence D. Kritzman, prof of French and Comparative Lit @ Dartmouth, “Practicing Criticism”, Foucault: Politics, Philosophy, Culture, 1988. pgs 154-156
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">FOUCAULT: First I’ll answer ...</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">will always be the same</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">.</span>


Geneology allows us to realize new modes of liberation and break out of the ethics of science
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smart 94</span>

Barry Smart, Prof of sociology @ U of Portsmouth, 1994,Michel Foucault. Critical Assessments, pg 174-5
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">While Foucault's genealogy ...</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">live a beautiful life.</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]