[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cheese Quesadilla AC</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Justice necessarily entails respecting the equality of persons. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[Velasquez et. Al. ’90. Manuel Velasquez, Claire Andre, Thomas Shanks, S.J., and Michael J. Meyer (all of Santa Clara University). “Justice and Fairness” Issues in Ethics V3 N2 (Spring 1990)] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The most fundamental…normal work situations. </span>
**Justice is not the same as morality –it’s more specific.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ethicalrealism.wordpress.com/2011/04/26/three-theories-of-justice/|Three Theories of Justice]]</span>”. James Gray has a MA in philosophy from San Jose State University(2008). April 26, 2011. [[http://ethicalrealism.wordpress.com/2011/04/26/three-theories-of-justice/|**http://ethicalrealism.wordpress.com/2011/04/26/three-theories-of-justice/**]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">What is justice?...for morality entirely.</span>
**Morality requires justice. We must get justice right before we can make moral claims. This means justice is the metaethic we’re trying to determine.**
<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">James William Taylor. </span>//<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Justice as a Basic Human Need</span>//<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">. Nova Science Publishers, 2006. ISBN 159454915X] </span>
<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">But if we…our biological survival. </span>

**The utilitarian way of justice is flawed.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Department of Philosophy at the University of California, “MILL ON JUSTICE: CHAPTER 5 of UTILITARIANISM,” 2004. </span>
<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The utilitarian norm…suffer under slavery. </span>
**Membership and being able to construct rules is irrelevant.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cavalieri, Italian Philosopher, and Peter Singer et al., Professor of Bioethics at Princeton University. “The Great Ape Project: Equality Beyond Humanity” 1993. Page 179. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There humanistic views…and nonhuman animals. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">To determine whether justice applies to equals equally, personhood is required. </span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;">[De Grazi, David. “On the Question of Personhood beyond Homo sapiens” in //In Defense of Animals: the Second Wave// edited by Peter Singer. © 2006 by Blackwell Publishing.] </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;">Thus I suggest…under the concept. </span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cr- correct attribution of personhood</span>**


**Personhood status is necessary to achieve equality.**
Steven M. Wise, Animal rights attorney and professor Vermont Law School, 2002, Drawing the Line: science and the case for animal rights, p. 21
Generally the law…will not count

**I advocate a continuation of the Great Apes Survival Project Partnership and the Great Apes Project together<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> .</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Professor Emeritus of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Colorado</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">“Encyclopedia of Animal Rights and Animal Welfare, Volume 1” pg 303. 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A tremendous challenge…and the disabled. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Great Apes have cognitive similar abilities of children. We protect children with rights. By syllogism, we should also protect apes. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[Nussbaum, Martha. RATTLING THE CAGE: TOWARD LEGAL RIGHTS FOR ANIMALS. By Steven M. Wise. Cambridge, MA: Perseus Books. 2000. Pp. xiii, 362. $25.00. Reviewed by Martha C. Nussbaum in Harvard Law Review, Vol. 114, No. 5 (Mar., 2001), pp. 1506-1549 Book Review Animal Rights: The Need For A Theoretical Basis (Nussbaum is the Ernst Freund Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago Law School.)] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">It is in…lack this capacity</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And Great Apes experience emotions – a distinction necessary for personhood status. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[Rook, Debra. “Should great apes have ‘human rights’?” Solicitor and Principal Lecturer, School of Law, Northumbria University, //Fellow of the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics, Director of the Animal Law Centre// Copyright © 2009 Deborah Rook First published in Web Journal of Current Legal Issues [[http://webjcli.ncl.ac.uk/2009/issue1/rook1.html]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In addition to…effectively gave up. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Another characteristic of personhood is self recognition. Apes self-recognize, studies prove.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[Robert W. Mitchell, Professor of psychology, Eastern Kentucky University, 1994, The Great Ape Project: equality beyond humanity, eds. Cavalieri & Singer, p. 241-2 (HARVCL5120)] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">One traditional avenue…kinesthetic-visual matching. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Apes use language to communicate, and in some cases like Koko the gorilla, use sign language. This is enough to be recognized as persons, but even if they can’t pass an English exam, rights are still afforded to those who have no language.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[Francine Patterson & Wendy Gordon, President & research assistant, The Gorilla Foundation, 1994, The Great Ape Project: equality beyond humanity, eds. Cavalieri & Singer, p. 61 (HARVCL5134)] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Many of those…which deserves consideration.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Apes have a rudimentary understanding of morality and obligations. Multiple studies prove</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Leake, Jonathan. “Monkeys have a sense of morality, say scientists.” February 15, 2009.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/environment/article5733638.ece (Jonathan is the Science Editor for the Times in London.)] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Monkeys and apes…to repay them.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Apes have culture. Scientists confirm</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> .</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Binns, Corey. . “Case Closed: Apes Got Culture. “Live Science. February 28, 2006. http://www.livescience.com/7064-case-closed-apes-culture.html (Corey Binns is a science and health writer based in New York City. Her work has appeared in //Popular Science//, </span><span class="style1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">//Scientific American Mind//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="style1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">//Psychology Today//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="style1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">//GOOD//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="style1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">//Women’s Health//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="style1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">//The New York Times//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, Scholastic’s classroom magazines </span><span class="style1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">//Science World//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> and </span><span class="style1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">//Action//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, AOL Health, msnbc.com as well as others.)] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Proving apes have…van Schaik said. </span>


**Continuing Apes research justifies the holocaust which is the ultimate form inequality.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steven M. Wise, Professor Animal Rights Law at the Harvard Law School, 2000, “Rattling the Cage: Toward Legal Rights for Animals” Questia p. 260</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The plea that…water ran out. </span>

==Negative== 
===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contracts NC</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Justice is a contract</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Black, Henry Campbell. Garner, Bryan A., and Henry Campbell Black. Black's Law Dictionary. St. Paul, MN: Thomson/West, 2006. Print..</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Communitative justice is…on an equality. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rights only exist if you understand rights, this means that rationality is the criteria for right possession. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Cohen, Carl. "The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research."; The New England Journal of Medicine; 1986; Professor of Philosophy at the University of Michigan .</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">The holders of…do possess rights. </span>

Rationalist is what distinguishes humans from animals.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;">DS Oderberg http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:1RV8TP7SSGwJ:www.reading.ac.uk/dsoderberg/papers/The%2520illusion%2520of%2520animal%2520rights.PDF+%22But+if+human+beings+are+rational+animals,+and+have+rights,+this+means%22&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a, the illusion of animal rights</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">But if human…right to life. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The negative burden is thus to show that animals lack rationality/ability to interact in contracts. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animals cannot understand social contract; their contract is basic and dedicated to humans. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Amrhein. "Animal Rights vs. Human Rights"; A Daily Reckoning Special Position Paper; 2009; Whiskey and Gunpowder contributor; http://dailyreckoning.com/animal-rights-vs-human-rights/. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Regardless of what…contract has expired.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animals cannot be party to agreement, so we are justified in depriving them of moral status. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Bernstein, Mark. ("Contractualism and Animals," Philosophical Studies: An International Journal for Philosophy in the AnalyticTradition, Vol. 86, No. 1 (Apr., 1997), pp. 49-72).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">But under my…of this status.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Put away your mentally handicapped answers, Regardless of mental status of the human, we have the ability to voluntarily consent and make moral choices unlike animals.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Cohen, Carl. Carl Cohen. 'Why animals have no rights. The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research'. New England Journal of Medicine, No. 14 (Oct. 1986).. </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">This objection fails…have never had. </span>


===Economy DA=== 
**The unemployment rate is extremely high now.**

<span style="background-color: white;">Greg Hunter,</span> 9 years network experience as an investigative correspondent with ABC News and Good Morning America, “Bad Unemployment Report Tangles Debt Deal” July, 11, 2011



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">protracted economic downturn…as I have. </span>



**The Meat and Poultry Industry takes up a large portion of the U.S. economy.**

The Meat and Poultry Industry Economic Contribution Study, 2009



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The meat and…economic activity</span>



**The plan requires people to become vegetarians and forgo meat as a whole. This causes us to get rid of the meat industry because we are no longer allowed to kill animals.**

The Meat and Poultry Industry Economic Contribution Study, 2009



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The meat and…the direct distribution</span>



**If the unemployment rate reaches 25%, the economy will collapse.**

<span style="background-color: white; color: #333333;">Eric Wieffering, </span>columnist for the Star Tribune, “Life without Fed = 25% unemployment” 2008


Last week the…<span class="CardsChar"> potentially catastrophic panic</span>





**Economic slowdown will cause WWIII.**

(Liutenant Colonel Bearden, The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How We Can Solve It, 2000, http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Big-Medicine/message/642



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bluntly, we foresee…for many decades.</span>


===Politics DA=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The monopoly of power to adjudicate competing claims is only centralized in a government. This is done through institutions like the court system.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Amy, Douglas. Government as the Champion of Justice, Equality, Freedom, and Security. (</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A web project of Douglas J. Amy, Professor of Politics at Mount Holyoke College) 2007. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">http://governmentisgood.com/articles.php?aid=12&p=1]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Do you believe…in our society. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Governments have obligations to their citizens, George Kennan explains, </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Morality and Foreign Policy<span style="color: #153364;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/author/george-f-kennan/index.html|George F. Kennan]]</span> From Foreign Affairs, <span style="color: #153364;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/1985/2.html|Winter 1985/86]]</span></span><span style="color: #646464; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">George F. Kennan is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton. Copyright © 1985 by George F. Kennan.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, let us…basis of them. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The South-Korean Free Trade Agreement will pass but Obama’s political capital is key </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Palmer 9/2</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [Doug, Reuters Reporter, " Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall," 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">After a slow…free trade pacts. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animal rights will be an uphill battle that’ll drain political capital—citizens and politicians alike will mock the aff advocacy</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">NY Daily News 9/2</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [Joshua Greenman, “The slow but steady animal rights revolution, from 'Planet of the Apes' to slaughter-free meat”, 2011, http://articles.nydailynews.com/2011-09-02/news/30125210_1_wild-chimps-animal-rights-factory-farms/2]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The politics at…have a point. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SKFTA’s chances are strong if Obama can push, and the bill will save the US-South Korean alliance</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kim 9/6</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [Sukhan Kim senior partner specializing in international trade at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP "Pushing the FTA to the finish line" koreajoongangdaily.joinsmsn.com/news/article/Article.aspx?aid=2941157]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Despite the hurdles…of Korus FTA.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">U.S.-South Korean relations deters North Korean belligerence</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gerwin 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [Edward F., Senior Fellow for Trade and Global Economic Policy – Third Way, “5 Reasons America Needs Korea Free Trade Deal”, Wall Street Journal, 12-16, http://blogs.wsj.com/economics/2010/12/16/guest-contribution-5-reasons-america-needs-korea-free-trade-deal/]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">China is not…for American Trade</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, Korean crisis escalates to great power conflict—multiple scenarios</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Stares and Wit 9</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [Paul, Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention – Council on Foreign Relations and, Joel, Adjunct Senior Research Fellow – Weatherhead East Asia Institute at Columbia University, “Preparing for Sudden Change in North Korea”, January, http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/North_Korea_CSR42.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">These various scenarios…in the North</span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]