[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC Wake Forest==
Plan: The United States federal government should develop Lunar Solar Power on the Earth’s Moon.

Contention 1 is Japan
Growing number of Japanese organizations are looking towards LSP projects – Japanese earthquake and energy strategy
EcoBusiness 7/12/11  -- Asia Business Magazine(“ Is ‘Luna Ring’ the energy solution or looney pipe dream?” <http://www.eco-business.com/news/is-luna-ring-the-energy-solution-or-looney-pipe-dream/>)

When Tetsuji Yoshida first unveiled a … huge chance this could become reality.” 

New pressures for LSP could have Japan implementing projects as soon as 2035
The Independent 7/10/11 – respected international news firm (“ Japanese firm looks to solar power from the moon” <http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/japanese-firm-looks-to-solar-power-from-the-moon-2311568.html>)

Given Japan's well-documented recent energy … of wind, wave and geothermal energy.

Japanese LSP would control key moon real estate, moon energy infrastructure, and ensure Japanese lunar resource exploitation
Shimizu Corp June 2011 (“Lunar Solar Power Generation:  The Energy Paradigm Shift Opens the Door to a Sustainable Society” <http://www.shimz.co.jp/english/theme/dream/lunaring.html>, Shimizu is lead Japanese organization aiming to build LSP on moon) 

A shift from economical use of limited … from lunar resources and installing them. 

Energy provided by LSP system is the lynchpin for moon control – first one to build controls future colonization, exploration, science stations, and inter-solar travel 
Ignatiev et al 2001 -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)  

Energy is fundamental to nearly everything … energy needed for the development of space. 

Lunar dominance is critical to overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key 
Spudis 10 – Paul D. Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, 2010, “The New Space Race,” online: http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf

In one of his early speeches defending … space and abandon the Vision for Space.

Heg solves all impacts.
Kagan 07  Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]

Finally, there is the United States itself … involving the large powers may erupt. 


Lunar Exploration and Settlements are key to He3 mining and US Space Leadership
Jeffrey 5/26(Terrence P Jeffrey, Editor in Chief of CNS News, “Former Moon Astronaut and Senator: U.S. Should Settle Moon and Mars” http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/former-moon-astronaut-and-senator-us-sho, 5/26/2011) SV

He now believes America’s political leadership… ideal fuel for nuclear fusion reactors.”

Control of He3 Resources is Key to Prevent Future Resource Wars
Lasker 10 (John Lasker, Freelance Journalist-Major contributor for magazines (eg. Wired & Christian Science Monitor), "Technoir", http://www.godlikeproductions.com/forum1/message1363174/pg1, 4/3/2010) SV

Back in 1998, representatives from Halliburton … resource war that ends the human race

Resource wars cause extinction
Klare 6(Michael T. Klare Ph.D, Professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire University, “The Coming Resource Wars” http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars, 3/10/2006)SV

It's official: the era of resource wars is … involvement in these forms of conflict.
Risks

CONTENTION 2 IS Risks

Risk of extinction is high—consensus of experts.
Jason G. Matheny, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, 2007 (“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm, Accessed 07-04-2011)

It is possible for humanity (or its descendents … about the survival of the species."

LSP allows for colonization of moon and outer space
Bekey et al 2000, Criswell, Friedman, Greenwood, Miller -- Professors of Aeronautics and Space Development @ USC, Univ. Houston, Univ. Oklahoma (<http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2000-FinalReport-AutonomousConstructionAndManufacturing.pdf>, " AUTONOMOUS CONSTRUCTION AND MANUFACTURING FOR SPACE ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM", NASA and NSF Report)

Energy is fundamental to nearly everything … to fabricate solar cells on location. 

Human colonization is feasible – but a robotic outpost is needed.
Schrunk et al. 7 – Faculty  Member  of  the  Kepler  Space  Institute (Dr. David G., author  and  Founder  of  the  Quality  of  Laws  Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, pp. 80-81, p. SpringerLink, MV)

As shown in the previous chapters ... location for the first lunar base.

LSP is critical for the future colonization of the moon and future planets -- self-sustaining energy source
Ignatiev et al 2001 -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)  

The long term exploration and colonization … simple fabrication of more solar cells. 
 
Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.
Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html, Accessed 07-04-2011)

Holding probability constant, risks become more … direct benefit of such an action.

Catastrophic impacts pale in comparison to existential ones — their impacts are recoverable setbacks while ours end the game. 
Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2009 (“The Future of Humanity,” Geopolitics, History and International Relations, Volume 9, Issue 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library, Reprinted Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/papers/future.pdf, Accessed 07-06-2011, p. 11)

Extinction risks constitute an especially severe … man, a small misstep for mankind.


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]