[[toc]]



=**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1AC- Space Vaccines and Antibiotics</span>**= 

==**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Anti-Biotics are becoming increasingly useless at treating bacterial and viral infections</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Jonathan</span>**Benson**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Antibiotics on the verge of becoming completely useless Monday, August 16, 20</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> by:, staff writer</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Learn more: http://www.naturalnews.com/029485_antibiotics_useless.html#ixzz1gZM78ADH</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;">The NaturalNews Network is a non-profit collection of public education websites covering topics that empower individuals to make positive changes in their health, environmental sensitivity, consumer choices and informed skepticism. The NaturalNews Network is owned and operated by Truth Publishing International, Ltd., a Taiwan corporation. It is __not__ recognized as a 501(c)3 non-profit in the United States, but it operates without a profit incentive, and its key writer, Mike Adams, receives absolutely no payment for his time, articles or books other than reimbursement for items purchased in order to conduct product reviews. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">NaturalNews) The journal //Lancet Infectious Diseases// recently published a sobering piece about how antibiotics are becoming… ability to treat infections," he emphasized Learn more</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Current experiments to develop antibiotics in space lack time, modern equipment, and investments to experiment and develop efficiently</span>**

<span style="text-align: left; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Ed </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Yong </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">25</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> April </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Space: Medicine's final frontier http://www.wired.co.uk/magazine/archive/2011/05/features/space-medicines-final-frontier?page=all Ed Yong is an award-winning science writer. He writes the blog </span><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/notrocketscience/|Not Exactly Rocket Science]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> and his work has also appeared in New Scientist, Nature, the Guardian, the Times, Wired UK, Discover, the BBC, CNN, Slate, the Daily Telegraph, the Economist and more. He lives in London with his wife. </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">That will be her fifth space experiment. "At the bench, every… Elon Musk, Sir Richard Branson…these are the playerswho are actually looking to advance this frontier."</span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should build a scientific space lab above the mesosphere to study and develop zero gravity medicine.</span>**</span></span>


==**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 2 Disease</span>**== 
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Research in Space shows new ways on how diseases develop and offers new ways of combating a wide variety of diseases here on earth</span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: left; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Ed </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Yong </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">25</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> April </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Space: Medicine's final frontier http://www.wired.co.uk/magazine/archive/2011/05/features/space-medicines-final-frontier?page=all Ed Yong is an award-winning science writer. He writes the blog </span><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/notrocketscience/|Not Exactly Rocket Science]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> and his work has also appeared in New Scientist, Nature, the Guardian, the Times, Wired UK, Discover, the BBC, CNN, Slate, the Daily Telegraph, the Economist and more. He lives in London with his wife. </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">So it was that,in September 2006, Stefanshyn… And many missions involve international crews, each bringing native microbes from their corner of the world</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Infectious diseases are the largest cause of death in the world, and research in space holds the key to develop new ways to stop infectious diseases.</span>**
<span style="text-align: left; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Ed </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Yong </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">25 April </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Space: Medicine's final frontier http://www.wired.co.uk/magazine/archive/2011/05/features/space-medicines-final-frontier?page=all Ed Yong is an award-winning science writer. He writes the blog </span><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/notrocketscience/|Not Exactly Rocket Science]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> and his work has also appeared in New Scientist, Nature, the Guardian, the Times, Wired UK, Discover, the BBC, CNN, Slate, the Daily Telegraph, the Economist and more. He lives in London with his wife. </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">On September 18, 2006, aboard the Space Shuttle Atlantis… We can do better and will do better."</span>

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Futures diseases, without adequate new drugs to fight them, will cause extinction </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Brandon</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Keim </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">November 5, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Disease Can Cause Extinction of Mammals Born and raised in Bangor, Maine, I now live in Brooklyn, where I’m perpetually amazed at the ability of nature to thrive in unexpected places. As a freelance science journalist, I’m interested in those spaces where science, culture, history and nature converge. My work has appeared in Adbusters, Wired.com, the Christian Science Monitor, USA Today, ABC News, Seed, Psychology Today and Nature Medicine. I’ve made broadcast appearances on NPR’s Science Friday, Talk of the Nation and Here & Now, BBC’s World Have Your Say, CBC’s As It Happens, Animal Planet and G4’s Attack of the Show [[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2008/11/yes-disease-can/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Disease can drive a mammal species to extinction… but the Earth is an island, too.</span>

Without new drugs and antibiotics to fight emerging diseases, will cause extinction of the human civilization. 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Toolis</span><span class="verdana">, the director of a major television series on the history of plagues,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 09</span> (Kevin, The Express, April 28, 2009 U.K. 1st Edition “Pandemic Pandemonium” lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">It destroyed the Roman Empire, wiped out most…had travelled halfway across the world via international flights.</span>

==**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 3 Economy</span>**== 
**Space offers a new frontier for drug development.**
**newscientist**.com<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> http://www.newscientist.com/blog/space/20</span>**07**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">/04/making-drugs-in-space.htmlMonday, April 16, 2007 Making drugs in space</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> is the ultimate science and technology website with over 76,000 content pieces.Launched in 1996 and since extended to include three channels (Space, Tech and Environment), a YouTube channel, podcast series, regular vodcasts and 6 blogs, New Scientist online has over 2 million monthly unique users.Our online content is delivered by New Scientist's editors and journalists, citizen journalists and external bloggers. The sites include:</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The aerospace company </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.spacehab.com/|Spacehab]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> is starting a division… help the company out of its </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.spacehab.com/news/2007/07_04_04.htm|financial trouble]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">?</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">New drug, vaccine, and antibiotic development will bring a new generation of effective drugs to the market in order to test and produce.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Euna </span><span class="byline2">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lhee</span>**</span><span class="headline2">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Space Experiments May Lead to Vaccines </span>//</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Monday, May 16, 20</span><span class="byline2">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">11</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> By:, HealthyState.org</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">http://www.wmfe.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=11524</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The shuttle's crew will be conducting a series…. for human clinical trials, here on Earth.</span>

**Infectious diseases cause billions of dollars in damage to the economy. Without new antibiotics in the pipeline the effects will only worsen. Also new drug development would mean more development in the antibiotic sector and an increase in sales.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Scott </span>**Singleton** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">20</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Innovative Antibiotic Development: New Strategies, Targets and Drugshttp://pharmacy.unc.edu/research/labs/singleton-research-group/research/projects-in-progress/innovative-antibiotic-development-new-strategies-targets-and-drugs </span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">Associate Professor Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy Division of Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The development of </span><span class="highlightedsearchterm" style="font-size: 9pt;">antibiotics</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> was one of the most… gene transcription and a novel approach for inhibiting protein translation by messenger RNA destruction.</span>


**Pharmaceutical Industry is vital to the economy and plays a major role in maintaining its stability.** 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">US Pharmaceutical Industry By: </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">EconomyWatch</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Date: 30 June 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Since our beginnings as a small portal in 1999, we have become a trusted reference source, cited by everyone from the World Bank to the Economics Network of academics in the UK, and from the BBC to the Huffington Post. On EconomyWatch.com, you will find a comprehensive mix of news, analysis, reference, articles, data, charts and tools. These have been provided both by our core team, by freelance contributors, and by members of our extended community.We are in the process of creating 'EconomyWatch 2.0', which will open the entire platform up to user contributions, while weaving in semantic content link and both free and paid services to enrich all sections of the site.http://www.economywatch.com/world-industries/pharmaceutical/us.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The US Pharmaceutical Industry is one of the mainstays… </span>
equipments, the companies will soon be able to produce medicines for various killer diseases.
==**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 4 Solvency </span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Development of Antibiotics can continue to keep humans living longer and healthier. The Aff’s Plan will keep humans ahead of bacteria and viruses. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Todar 09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The Microbial WorldLectures in Microbiology by Kenneth Todar PhD University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Bacteriology</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">2009 Kenneth Todar PhD </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Bacteriology at UW-Madison http://textbookofbacteriology.net/themicrobialworld/bactresanti.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The discovery of antibiotics was a leap in modern… microbial pathogens that can only be contained by antibiotic chemotherapy.</span>

**The unique environment of space offers a new frontier of new undiscovered information that can be learned and used to develop a new generation of antibiotics and drugs that can greatly benefit humanity.** 
|| <span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">By </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">BiotechDaily</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">International staff writers Posted on 23 Jun 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Drug Development in Microgravity Research Conducted Aboard Atlantis' Last Mission</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">http://www.biotechdaily.com/drug_discovery/articles/294729930/drug_development_in_microgravity_research_conducted_aboard_atlantis_last_mission.html </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">A subsidiary of Astrotech Corp., Astrogenetix, Inc. is a biotechnology company formed to commercialize biotechnology products processed in the unique environment of microgravity.</span> ||

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Space Shuttle Atlantis returned from the International Space Station… biotechnology products processed in the unique environment of microgravity.</span>