[[toc]]
=Contact Info= 
email [[mailto:mxywong@gmail.com|mxywong@gmail.com]] and [[mailto:mathclub10@gmail.com|mathclub10@gmail.com]]

more neg stuff will be up after we talk to the novices about what they run

aff stuff might vary slightly depending on the team, we'll put up team specific stuff in a bit

=Affirmative= 
==Plan Text== 
The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate space-based solar power.

==Oil Dependency== 
**Operational demands means military oil dependence isn’t sustainable in the long-term – a transition to alternatives is key**
**Crowley et al. 7** (Thomas D. Crowley, Tanya D. Corrie, David B. Diamond, Stuart D. Funk, Wilhelm A. Hansen, Andrea D. Stenhoff, Daniel C. Swift, analysts at LMI Government Consulting, April 2007, “Transforming the Way DOD Looks at Energy: An Approach to Establishing an Energy Strategy”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003, pg. 7 //KX)//

//Recent experience indicates that the … all aspects of military operations.//

//**Continued reliance on oil tanks heg – it imposes strategic, operational, and fiscal burdens that reduce military effectiveness**//
//**Crowley et al. 7** (Thomas D. Crowley, Tanya D. Corrie, David B. Diamond, Stuart D. Funk, Wilhelm A. Hansen, Andrea D. Stenhoff, Daniel C. Swift, analysts at LMI Government Consulting, April 2007, “Transforming the Way DOD Looks at Energy: An Approach to Establishing an Energy Strategy”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003, pg. 8-9// KX)

The goal of our security … costs and logistic support requirements.

**SPS solves forward deployment – it’s cost competitive with fossil fuels**
**Charania et al. 11** (A.C. Charania, President of SpaceWorks Commercial, John R. Olds, Assistant Professor in the School of Aerospace Engineering at Georgia Tech and Director of Georgia Tech’s Space Systems Design Laboratory, and Dominic DePasquale, Director of Washington D.C. Operations for SpaceWorks Commercial, 2011, “Operational Demonstration of Space Solar Power (SSP): Economic Analysis of a First Revenue Satellite (FRS)”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/Economic_Analysis_of_a_First_Revenue_Satellite_for_SSP_(2011).pdf //KX)//

//It may be the case that … from June 2008 given earlier).//

//**And, military usage ensures rapid development**//
//**Lemonick 9** (Michael D., senior writer at Climate Central, a nonpartisan organization whose mission is to communicate climate science to the public, former senior writer at Time magazine, citing Paul Damphousse, Chief Engineer for the Communications Functional Integration Office of the National Security Space Office, 8/31/09, “Solar Power from Space: Moving Beyond Science Fiction”, http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2184// KX)

The first, he said, is … stake in space-based power.

**Forward deployment prevents several scenarios for global nuclear war**
**Kagan 7** – Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, August-September, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Policy Review, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html

Finally, there is the United … will provide an easier path.

**Your impact turns are inevitable – the U.S. will always drive for heg – it’s only a question of effectiveness**
**Edelman 10** (Eric S. Edelman, former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy and former Principal Deputy Assistant to the Vice President for National Security Affairs, February 2010, “Understanding America’s
Contested Primacy”, online at http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/CSBA_UACP_web.pdf, pg. 7-8)

Today there is no equivalent … believes is now upon us.

==Aerospace== 
**The U.S. aerospace industrial base is deteriorating – lack of funding and procurement hamstrings research and development**
**Grant 11** (Rebecca Grant, Ph.D. in International Relations from the London School of Economics, Director of the General William Mitchell Institute for Airpower Studies, worked for RAND and the offices of the Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff of the Air Force, president of IRIS Independent Research, contributor to Air Force Magazine, has written extensively on airpower, 6/20/11, “Crunch Time for the Industrial Base”, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/June%202011/0611base.aspx | AK)

Defense budgets are flat. Procurement … life as a commercial airframe.)

**And, collapse of the industrial base and aerospace industry tanks U.S. competitiveness and innovation**
**Albaugh 11** (Jim Albaugh, Executive Vice President of The Boeing Company, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, former President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Integrated Defense Systems, former President and CEO of Boeing Space and Communications, former President of Rocketdyne Power & Propulsion, Honorary Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, serves as Board Chairman of the Aerospace Industries Association, B.A. in Mathematics and Physics from Willamette University, M.A. in Civil Engineering from Columbia University, 4/27/11, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace””, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/speech_042711_albaugh.pdf | AK)

Today we take America’s industrial … vehicle. To me, that’s unconscionable.

**Independently, SPS expands the workforce and fosters innovation**
**NSSO 7** (National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space‐Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/nexgen/Nexgen_Downloads/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf | AK)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … of the American Competitiveness Initiative.

**Aerospace competitiveness is key to U.S. economic stability and growth**
**Herrnstadt 8** (Owen E. Herrnstadt, director of the Trade and Globalization Department at the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, 4/17/08, “OFFSETS AND THE LACK OF A COMPREHENSIVE U.S. POLICY: What Do Other Countries Know That We Don’t?”, http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201/bp201.pdf | AK)

Aerospace is an especially important … (Aerospace Industries Commission 2002, 8-12).

**Economic decline causes global nuclear war**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8** (Aaron, prof. of politics and IR at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, senior editor of Commentary, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon, 10/21/08, “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” http://online.wsj.co...4012352571.html // KX)

With the global financial system … that breaks the camel's back.

**Aerospace dominance secures U.S. leadership and hegemony**
**Walker 2** (Robert Walker, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners”, http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf | AK)

Defending our nation against its … the world’s preeminent military power.

**Hegemony solves all global problems – prefer it to all other alternatives**
**Thayer 6** [Bradley Thayer, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “In Defense of Primacy”, The National Interest, December (lexis)]

THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability … the economic prosperity it provides.

**Federal investment into SPS is necessary to revitalize the industrial base and secure U.S. aerospace dominance – signals a commitment to space leadership**
**NSSO 7** (National Security Space Office of the United States Federal Government, 10/10/07, “Space‐Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/nexgen/Nexgen_Downloads/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf | AK)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … powerful expression of this imperative.

==Warming== 
**Warming is happening – limiting atmospheric CO2 now is key to stop runaway warming**
**Deibel 7** [Terry L. Deibel, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” pages 397-8, 2007]

Finally, there is one major … of life on this planet.

**Warming is anthropogenic – our evidence represents the scientific consensus**
**NYT 11** (NYTimes, Online Newspaper, 1/13/11, “Global Warming”, http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/science/topics/globalwarming/index.html)

Scientists learned long ago that … the world to warming's risks.

**Runaway warming will make adaption impossible – emission cuts now are key**
**Hansen 8** (Professor of Earth and Environmental Science James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf)

Fast feedbacks—changes that occur … all this will be wildlife.

**SPS can replace the vast majority of fossil-fuel consumption – solves warming**
**Hsu 10** (Dr. Feng Hsu, Sr. Vice President of Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, 2010, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)

It has become increasingly evident … chance to make a difference.

**SPS is the only form of alternative energy that can relieve fossil fuel dependence – optimum efficiency and feasibility**
**Hsu 10** (Dr. Feng Hsu, Sr. Vice President of Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, 2010, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)

We must set priorities and … models for overcoming these issues.

**Independently, warming causes extinction**
**Tickell 8** (Oliver Tickell, Environmental Researcher, 2008, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)

We need to get prepared … towards a similar hothouse Earth.

==Resource Wars== 
**SPS is integral in averting global conflict and resource wars by transforming our global regular energy uses into clean sustainable energy**
**Hsu 10** [Feng Hsu, PhD and Former Head of NASA Goddard Center’s Risk Management, Former Research Engineer @ Brookhaven National Laboratory, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, 2010, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html ]

It has become increasingly evident … technology frontiers in the sky.

**SPS solves for resource conflicts, which sparks great power war**
**NSSO 7** [National Security Space Office, “Space‐Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” NSSO Report to the DoD, page 14, 10/10/2007]

The SBSP Study Group found … the chance of such conflicts.

**Resource wars cause extinction**
**Cairns 4** [John, Distinguished Professor in the Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, 17 October 2004, “Avoiding a Posthuman World”, Sci. & Soc. 3(1), 2005, pp 17-28]

Durant and Durant (1968) remarked: … in an increasingly urbanized world.

==Solvency== 
**Initial government demonstration is key to catalyze full private sector development of an SPS industry**
**NSSO 7** (National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space‐Based Solar Power: As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473860&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

The SBSP Study Group concludes … SBSP and incentivize its development.

**The technology exists now – all that remains is government inaction**
**Goldenberg 9** (Suzzane Goldenberg, is the US environment correspondent of the Guardian, “ US power company to tap solar energy in space”)

Solaren has released relatively few … not really a technology issue."

**Demonstration of SPS would only cost $500 million – launch costs reduce dramatically following initial demonstration**
**Rubenchik 9** (Alexander M Rubenchik, is a physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, April 2009, “Solar Power Beaming: From Space to Earth”, http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=%E2%80%9CThe+cost+to+deploy+the+first+space-based+solar+energy+system+is+estimated+at+approximately+%24500+million.+A+significant+percentage+of+this+cost+is+attributed+to+the+laser%2C+the+solar+reflector%2Fcollector+systems%E2%80%9D+&hl=en&btnG=Search&as_sdt=1%2C30&as_sdtp=on, Date accessed June 24, 2011)

The cost to deploy the … the not too distant future.

**SPS is technologically viable – no breakthroughs required**
**NSSO 7** (National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space‐Based Solar Power: As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473860&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … even more stringent technical requirements.



=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===Manned=== 
**A. Interpretation Exploration means to expand human presence to space**
**Logsdon 9** – professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)

Exploration as a Compelling Rationale … of the several “secondary objectives.”

**Space development is manned commercial projects**
**Livingston 7** – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)

Eric Westling is a science writer, … manned commercial projects in space.

===Substantial=== 
**A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion**
**Alexander, 8** (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)

On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, … guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.

===Its=== 
**Interpretation – Its implies ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms ‘5** (http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, its, … that it belongs to me.)

==Counterplans== 
===XO=== 
**The President of the United States should __**

**Observation 1: Competition**
**A. Definitional: “The” means all parts – they’re definitionally bound to defending all branches**
**Merriam-Webster's Online Collegiate Dictionary, No Date,**
http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary

used as a function word … as a whole <the elite>

**B. Resolutional – Resolved means legislative action**
**Lousiana House of Representatives 5** (http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm)

Resolution A legislative instrument that … 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)

**Observation 2 is Solvency**

**The President can authorize billions of dollars for the plan without any Congressional involvement**
**Mayer 01** (Kenneth R, Professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 4/12, http://pup.princeton.edu/chapters/s7095.html)

In response Clinton unilaterally authorized … program without any meaningful interference.

**And, Executive orders bypass congress without expending political capital**
**Warshaw 06** (Shirley Anne Warshaw, MAD QUALZ! An authority on the American presidency, presidential elections, the president's Cabinet, and organizational decision structures for presidential policy making, Warshaw is a frequent speaker and commentator on network radio, television, and print media on presidential leadership and related topics, including CNN, BBC, CBS, NPR, The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, Washington Post, New York Times, Reuters, Associated Press, Christian Science Monitor, USA Today, Wall Street Journal, and others. Warshaw has written several books on presidential decision-making, Gettysburg College, The Administrative Strategies of President George W. Bush, http://www.ou.edu/special/albertctr/extensions/spring2006/Warshaw.pdf

As presidents segue from the … his primary tool for governance.

**Observation 3 is the Net Benefit**

**1. Now is the key time for prez powers – Obama and the senate are battling over space jurisdiction**
**Whittington 5/8** (Mark Whittington, author of The Last Moonwalker, Children of Apollo and Nocturne. He has written numerous articles, some for the Washington Post, USA Today, the LA Times, and the Houston Chronicle, 5/8/11 “White House and Congress Clash Over NASA Funding, Space Cooperation with China” http://news.yahoo.com/s/ac/20110508/pl_ac/8438927_white_house_and_congress_clash_over_nasa_funding_space_cooperation_with_china)

The distrust Congress holds toward … the part of the president.

**2. Unilateral executive action expands presidential power and sets a precedent – each order is key. The counterplan fiats uniqueness to the link**
**Mayer 01** (Kenneth R., Professor of Political Science @ U of Wisconsin-Madison, With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power, p. 56)

Much of the time, analyses … the meaning of the Constitution.”

**3. Increased presidential powers are key to solve warming**
**PCAP 08** (Presidential Climate Action Project, Nonpartisan Project at the University of Colorado Denver, “Climate Action Brief: The Use of Presidential Power”, 2008 is the last date cited, http://www.climateactionproject.com/docs/briefs/Climate_Brief_Presidential_Power.pdf)

This legacy could lead the … grassroots support for climate action.


**4. Extinction**
**Tickell 8** – Environmental Researcher (Oliver, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange) [Quals Added]

We need to get prepared … towards a similar hothouse Earth.

===Prizes=== 
**CP text: The United States federal government should establish substantial monetary prizes for the** 

**Observation 1 is competition:**
**a. Its means belonging to – they’re definitionally bound to increasing government development**
**Encarta 9** (Encarta World English Dictionary, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861622735)

its [ its ] adjective Definition: indicating …The park changed its policy.

**Observation 2 is solvency:**

**NASA should use prizes instead – engaging nontraditional performers solves better**
**Kalil 6** (Thomas Kalil, Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley, December 2006, “Prizes for Technological Innovation”, The Hamilton Project, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.116.2795&rep=rep1&type=pdf, pg. 8-9 // KX)

Among all federal agencies, NASA … making them a mainstream tool.

====Soft Power Net Benefit==== 
**Privatization is key to provide the perception of peaceful space leadership and sustain soft power through science diplomacy- plan wrecks that**
**Brown 09** (Trevor Brown, Masters of Science from Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air & Space Power Journal, Spring 2009, pg. http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html //ZA)//

//Evidently, rhetoric emanating from the … capabilities and retain soft power.//

//**That literally solves every impact**// 
//**Federoff 8** (Nina, Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID “Testimony Before The House Science Subcommittee On Research And Science Education,” pg online @ http://gop.science.house.gov/Media/Hearings/research08/April2/fedoroff.pdf// ZA)

Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, … global partnerships, and create sustainability.

====Hard Power Net Benefit==== 
**Transition to the private sector key to heg – cheaper, more innovation and reduces dependency**
**Walker 11**(Robert S., former chairman of the President’s Commission on the Future of Aerospace and former chairman of the U.S. House Science Committee, currently executive chairman of the Washington lobbying firm Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates, 2 May, 2011, “A Powerful Case for Commercial Space”, http://spacenews.com/commentaries/110502-powerful-case-for-commercial-space.html //ZA)

The Russians are giving us … remarkable new adventures and discoveries.

**Key to solve nuclear war**
**Khalilizad 95** (Zalmay Khalilizad, director of the Strategy and Doctrine Program @ RAND & former US Ambassador to Afghanistan "Losing the Moment? The United States and the World After the Cold War," Washington Quarterly, Spring, Proquest)

Under the third option, the … multipolar balance of power system.

==Disads== 
===Weaponization=== 
**The US is not weaponizing space now** 
**Porter 11** [Charles, “EU Consider Code of Conduct for Space”; Website; June 17; http://iipdigital.usembassy.gov/st/english/article/2011/06/20110617155237enelrahc3.353298e-03.html#ixzz1Qb7c0PBD]

Coming to a shared understanding … measures that solve existing problems.

**Unless a system is discussed by a declaration it will still be perceived as weaponization** 
**Klotz, 99** – Lieutenant General of the Air Force, PhD in Political Science from Oxford [Frank, January, Council on Foreign Relations, “Space, Commerce, and National Security” JF)

Additionally, some of the systems … by one or more parties.


**Poor Russian intelligence warning would result in miscalculation on space debris and nuclear war with the US**
**Lewis, 04** - Post doctorate Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, (Jeffery, July “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Conflict Scenarios” Center for Defense Information, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf

This is the second of … first strike during this period.56

**The presence of ASAT weapons mean that false alarms are misinterpreted and risk crisis escalation**
**Lewis, 04** - Post doctorate Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, (Jeffery, July “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Conflict Scenarios” Center for Defense Information, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf

All of these incidents have … nuclear forces to operate safely.

===Politics=== 
**Capital key to passage**
**Moscow Times 12/14** (2011, online)

WASHINGTON — The White House faces … Russia as a WTO member.

**Relations are at a breaking point – failure emboldens Russian nationalism and devastates reset**
**Goodrich 12/13** (Lauren Goodrich is a research analyst at STRATFOR, Cutting Edge News, 2011, http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=53358&pageid=89&pagename=Features)

Tensions between the United States … on the Northern Distribution Network,

**Russian relations are key to solve every impact**
**Nixon Center 9** - The Commission on U.S. Policy toward Russia joint project of The Nixon Center and the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, a research center within Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, “The Right Direction for U.S. Policy toward Russia,” March 2009 http://www.nixoncenter.org/RussiaReport09.pdf

Securing America’s vital national interests … Failure could impose significant costs.

====SPS Link==== 



**SSP unpopular - expensive**
**Foust 7** (Jeff is an editor and publisher of the Space Review, “A renaissance for space solar power?” 8/13/07, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/931/1)

One obstacle facing space solar … out of it,” he said.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]