=Okinawa Ethics 1AC -- Rounds 2 and 4= 

Contention 1 is the ethics of exit –

65 years ago, the US colonized Okinawa – to this date, more than half of our military presence in Japan remains stationed there

Bandow, 10 -- Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University (2010, Doug, National Interest Online, “Get Out of Japan,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23592)

Candidate Barack Obama … the people who live there.


The United States occupied Japan in the wake of one of the most racially charged war efforts of the 20th century. US soldiers that had been conditioned to equate every Japanese person with an image of a buck-toothed savage now occupied the streets in order to liberate the Japanese from themselves. Basing in Okinawa is steeped in racism, relegating the under-civilzied Okinawans to a position of inferiority.

Koshiro, 99 - visiting associate professor of history at Colgate University for 2003–2004, and she has also taught at Williams College and Bates College in recent years (Yukiko, “Trans-Pacific racisms and the U.S. occupation of Japan,” http://books.google.com/books?id=CaeyOTMMjPYC&pg=PA6&lpg=PA6&dq=The+socio+cultural+transformation+of+Japan+into+an+Americanized+nation+did+not+remove+this+wall.+In+Japanese-American+interactions,+racism+was+implacable.&source=bl&ots=xcKv8ggzbB&sig=eaOF6xfDK6XpgfCdUARCJDbdq_M&hl=en&ei=Q73NTMMTw5yWB4Cp2eQI&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBUQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=okinawa&f=false)

The situation for … Japan’s former colonies.


Scenario 1 is racism –

And racism enables the political bodies of the US and Japan to systematically ignore Okinawa for the sake of the greater good

Feifer, 1 - author of many successful books, including Tennozan: The Battle of Okinawa, a New York Times Notable Book; Moscow Farewell, a Book of the Month Club Main Selection; and The Girl from Petrovka, the basis of a Hollywood film. He's written for a wide variety of publications, including the New Republic, the New York Times Magazine, Harper's, and the Saturday Evening Post (8/1, George, “The Battle of Okinawa: The Blood and the Bomb,” http://books.google.com/books?id=t7iFc6JCHKcC&pg=PA455&dq=okinawa+%2B+racism&hl=en&ei=5VnATNGlLIqr8Aady5ngBA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDsQ6AEwBA#v=onepage&q=okinawa%20%2B%20racism&f=false)

For all the recent … or Dade Country.


The globalization of racial hierarchies relegate difference to the realm of invisibility culminating in exclusion and extermination.

Rodriguez, 7 - University of California, Riverside (Dylan, “american globality and the u. s. prison regime: state violence and white supremacy from abu ghraib to stockton to bagong diwa” Kritika Kultura, Issue 9, November 2007)

Variable, overlapping, and … across global geographies. 


And racism makes war and violence inevitable – it presents our enemies as biologically inferior to justify their extermination

Mendieta 2 - (4/25/02, Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “ ‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting”)

This is where … biological in nature.

Finally, inaction is complicity - you have a unique obligation to reject racism

Memmi, 2k - Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ University of Paris (Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)

The struggle against … the stakes are irresistible.


Scenario 2 is ethics–


And the racial origins of this relationship have justified oppression on both sides of the Pacific. Japan views Okinawas as inferior and the US treats them as expendable creating Okinawa as the absolute other.

Koshiro, 99 - visiting associate professor of history at Colgate University for 2003–2004, and she has also taught at Williams College and Bates College in recent years (Yukiko, “Trans-Pacific racisms and the U.S. occupation of Japan,” http://books.google.com/books?id=CaeyOTMMjPYC&pg=PA6&lpg=PA6&dq=The+socio+cultural+transformation+of+Japan+into+an+Americanized+nation+did+not+remove+this+wall.+In+Japanese-American+interactions,+racism+was+implacable.&source=bl&ots=xcKv8ggzbB&sig=eaOF6xfDK6XpgfCdUARCJDbdq_M&hl=en&ei=Q73NTMMTw5yWB4Cp2eQI&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBUQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=okinawa&f=false)

The situation for … of Japan’s former colonies.

This has produced Okinawans as the quintessential other – the dual relationship between the US and Japan makes their suffering invisible.

Taylor, NO DATE – asst. professor, Ph.D Geography Department, California State University, Fullerton (Jonathan, “Anti-Military and Environmental Movements in Okinawa,” http://www.uky.edu/~ppkaran/conference/Anti-Military%20and%20Environmental%20Movements%20in%20Okinawa.pdf)

It is important to … and peace movements. 


Intimate societies absolve actors of any constraints, sanctioning endless violence against the excluded other.

Levinas, 98 -- philosopher and Talmudic commentator (Emmanuel, also: Mihael Bradley Smith, Barbara Harshav, “Entre nous: thinking-of-the-other,” http://books.google.com/books?id=u13lXZIO3QcC&pg=PA17&lpg=PA17&dq=%22intimate+society%22+violence&source=bl&ots=BzPYpJW

WpS&sig=ZYD3AiuQILmDoETtiZm5I7pGn_w&hl=en&ei=ouR7TOiQFYKClAfQ2JjsCw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBsQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22intimate%20society%22%20violence&f=false)

The forgiveable transgression, apart … the order of forgiveness. 


We are ethically obligated to end this violence – the victimization of Okinawa represents a horrific instance of ongoing oppression.

Gerson, 3 – (12/5/03, Joseph Gerson, PhD, is deeply involved in the U.S. peace and anti-war movement and participated in the founding conferences of United for Peace and Justice, The Asia Peace Assembly, and the European Network for Peace and Human Rights, “U.S. Foreign Military Bases & Military Colonialism,” http://www.zcommunications.org/u-s-foreign-military-bases-and-military-colonialism-by-joseph-gerson)

My awakening to the … strong forward presence."


And in the context of Okinawa, a Levinasian approach is essential.

Inoue, 7 -- Ph.D. in cultural anthropology from Duke University and assistant professor of the Japan Studies Program and the Department of Modern and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Cultures at the University of Kentucky. Visiting Associate Professor in the Department of Engineering of the Shibaura Institute of Technology (4/15, Masamichi S., “Okinawa and the U.S. Military: Identity Making in the Age of Globalization)

These two political and … be able to fully internalize.


Withdrawal forces a reckoning with human suffering, humbling virulent national identity and renewing responsibility for a history of violence

Koschmann, 1 -- teaches modern Japanese history at Cornell University. He published Revolution and Subjectivity in Postwar Japan (University of California Press) in 1996, and has coedited Total War and "Modernization" (Cornell East Asia Series 100, 1998) (2001, J. Victor, The South Atlantic Quarterly, “National Subjectivity and the Uses of Atonement in the Age of Recession,” muse)

Philosopher Takahashi Tetsuya … construct [the subject called] "we Japanese." 24


Subjecting the atrocities of militarism in Okinawa to public scrutiny reformulates social movements in opposition to this violence.

Macleish, 10 - KENNETH T. MACLEISH doctoral candidate in anthropology and the Program in Folklore, Public Culture and Cultural Studies at the University of Texas at Austin. He conducted 12 months of intensive fieldwork with soldiers and military families at and around the U.S. Army’s Ft. Hood in Killeen, TX. 5/6/ 2010 (Review of “The Bases of Empire: The Global Struggle against U.S. Military Posts” American Ethnologist Volume 37, Issue 2, pages 385–386, May 2010)

Just as it is both … and legitimate violence.

That’s key to adopt an ethic of care towards the other – all action and calculation is determined by our interactions with the other

Hofmeyer, 9 – researcher in the Department of Philosophy of the University of Pretoria, South Africa. She holds a PhD in Philosophy from the Radboud University Nijmegen, the Netherlands (1/28, Benda, “Radical Passivity: Rethinking Ethical Agency in Levinas,” http://books.google.com/books?id=vjbXfNltSh0C&pg=PA85&lpg=PA85&dq=levinas+radical+appropriation&source=bl&ots=u7xjTpQAz2&sig=97L2HyQTWm-E-71KKfUGjJy8QfI&hl=en&ei=0l5pTI_FJ8OqlAeq9eGeBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CDQQ6AEwBw#v=onepage&q=levinas%20radical%20appropriation&f=false)

To fix the … all my resources. 


Our recognition of moral responsibility eliminates the impetus for violence by forcing us to realize the humanity of the other

Dews, 7 -professor of philosophy at the University of Essex
(Peter, “The Idea of Evil,” Blackwell Publishing LTD, 2007)

The face, then, is … murderous in its very exercise.

Two-level utilitarianism solves all your offense

Hamilton, 3 - (2003, Christopher, “Understanding Philosophy for AS Level,” googlebooks)

There is, however, a problem … like an archangel.


Utilitarianism is inherently arbitrary and cannot be calculated rationally – the greater good is always subject to interpretation.

Mcallister, No Date (Christopher, “Towards the Bright Horizon,” chapter 4, http://christophermcallister.org/towards-the-bright-horizon/consequentialism-from-a-to-b)

A consequentialist is one … has, what grounds it?



And our moral system is an internal link turn to consequentialism—only by following deontological moral rules can we maximize the good

Alexander, 85 - (Larry, “Pursuing the Good-Indirectly,” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 2 (Jan., 1985), pp. 315-332, University of Chicago Press)

The best argument for indirect consequentialism is both an argument against the direct pursuit of the Good (Kupperman 1983, pp 93-129; Sartorious 1975, pp. 52-59; Powers 1979, p. 1280) and an argument for assessing the rightness of acts by means of rules and dispositions of character. Basically, the argument is as follows. Suppose that we promulgate rules that are easy to apply and that govern acts even when an actor is convinced that by violating the rules he would produce more Good than he would by complying. Alternatively, or in addition, suppose that we inculcate dispositions, for example, loyalty, honesty, fidelity to one's word, gratitude, familial love, and spontaneity, that cause people to act for reasons other than to produce the Good. Then, the argument runs, more Good will be attained than will be if we require people to choose each act according to the likelihood that it maximizes the Good.


Contention 2 is solvency –


Acquiescence to the demands of Okinawa undermines the system of racism and imperialism

Roberson, 9 - Professor of Cultural Anthropology at Tokyo Jogakkan College (Winter, James E., “Memory and Music in Okinawa: The Cultural Politics of War and Peace,” http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.uchicago.edu/journals/positions/v017/17.3.roberson.html)

A song such as … Japanese and American governments.


Our refusal to sacrifice Okinawa is a recognition of the shared precariousness of life. A critical intervention into the norms of representation opens up space for a new ethical-political strategy that precedes calculation.

Butler, 9 (Judith, Prof of Rhetoric at Berkeley, “Frames of War”)

It is precisely within an … is precisely to "lose the you."

=Hiroshima - Round 6= 
Contention 1 is the dawn of an era:

The disaster at Fukushima has afforded a unique opportunity to reckon with the danger of nuclear entanglements in Japan – the nuclear umbrella represents the logic that allowed the destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Oe, 3/28 – 1994 Nobel Prize Winner in literature (2011, Kenzaburo, “History Repeats,” [[http://www.newyorker.com/talk/2011/03/28/110328ta_talk_oe]])

This disaster unites, in a … advocated by nuclear powers.

Now is key – we must have a reckoning with Japan’s nuclear past – nuclear umbrella is the primary starting point
Kuznick 4/13 – (Peter, bulletin of atomic scientists “Japan's nuclear history in perspective: Eisenhower and atoms for war and peace” http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/japans-nuclear-history-perspective-eisenhower-and-atoms-war-and-peace)

The price of … of World War II.

The nuclear umbrella casts the sigificance of the bomb in strategic rather than commemorative terms – the grand narative of American power has created a hegemonic monopoly on our historical memory. Hong, 9 - Chancellor's postdoctoral fellow in English at UC Berkeley (11/1, Christine, “Flashforward Democracy: American Exceptionalism and the Atomic Bomb in Barefoot Gen,” muse)

I focus on the reception … dominance over Japan.

Nuclear umbrella politics sanitizes the memory of Hiroshima.
Yoneyama, 99 - B.A. in German Language Studies and M.A. in International Relations at Sophia University, Tokyo, and Ph.D. in Cultural Anthropology at Stanford University, California (Lisa, “Hiroshima Traces: Time, Space, and the Dialects of Memory,” http://books.google.com/books?id=HlH0xxj84CwC&pg=PA24&dq=nuclear+umbrella+%2B+memory+of+hiroshima&hl=en&ei=d6-MTdytAsTAgQfln9XEDQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CC0Q6AEwAA#v=onepage&q&f=false)

All three examples – the … cold war commonwealth.

We’ll isolate a few impacts:

First, current US nuclear policy is counterproductive, inherently violent, and makes proliferation and nuclear use inevitable – we are obligated to end the immoral practice of nuclear deterrence.
Kazuo, 9 – Japanese Communist Party Chair speech to the International Meeting of the 2009 World Conference (8/3, Shii, “Japan must break away from U.S. nuclear umbrella and become nuclear-free,” http://www.jcp.or.jp/english/jps_weekly09/20090804_01.html)

A new situation … Lewis Mumford observed.


Second, our obsession with the bomb is rooted in a faux rationality that justifies violence through the logic of preventing apocalypse. Our interrogation of hiroshima can deconstruct the irresistability of nuclear desire.
Davis, 1 – Professor Emeritus, Ohio State University, Ph.D: U of C, English language and literature (Walter A., “Deracination: historicity, Hiroshima, and the tragic imperative,” gbooks)

That is why the … or limit contingency.

The impact is endless violence, misery, and destruction of all value to life. 
Nandy 97 – (PhD in clinical psychology and Director, Center for the Study of Developing Socieities, 1997, Ashis. http://www.transnational.org/forum/meet/nandy_nuclearism.html) 

Nuclearism does not … morally, socially and psychologically.

Contention 2 is why our K is true

Refusing to continue our policy of extended nuclear deterrence in East Asia will have a stabilizing effect on the region – removes the incentive for conflict.
Hayes, 10 - (12/6/10, Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne and Executive Director, Nautilus Institute of America, “The US needs a new North Korea policy: a nuclear weapons free zone,” DH)

Fortunately, there is a … to not target it.

And the plan can create a new security architecture not based on the destructive influence of nuclear deterrence.
Hayes, 09 - (12/10/09, Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne and Executive Director, Nautilus Institute of America, “Extended nuclear deterrence, Global Abolition and Korea,” Austral Special Report 09-06S, Nautilus Institute DH)

Moreover, as has been … need for shared solutions.22


Even if North Korea doesn’t join the NWFZ, the act of declaring such a zone will stabilize the peninsula and allow constructive engagement to take place.
Hayes, 10 - (12/6/10, Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne and Executive Director, Nautilus Institute of America, “The US needs a new North Korea policy: a nuclear weapons free zone,” DH)

A nuclear weapon free … would take at least a year.

And North Korean proliferation makes the collapse of our nuclear deterrent inevitable. 
Hayes, 09 - (12/10/09, Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne and Executive Director, Nautilus Institute of America, “Extended nuclear deterrence, Global Abolition and Korea,” Austral Special Report 09-06S, Nautilus Institute DH)

Thus, countering threats … these dismal outcomes.

--- the impact is a lot of dead people.
Bandow 09 – (Doug, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. He is a former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, GOD, “Starting the Second Korean War?” http://reason.com/archives/2009/02/26/starting-the-second-korean-war DH)

If there is … along with Seoul.

Thus Isaac and I advocate the following plan:

The United States federal government should withdraw its nuclear umbrella from Japan.
[[#_GoBack]] 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
Contention 3 is the end of an era:

The plan functions as a sustained criticism of current US nuclear policy. An interrogation of the events preceding and following from the use of nuclear weapons in Hiroshima and Nagasaki can provide the critical force necessary to reorient our understanding of nuclear weapons
Davis, 1 – Professor Emeritus, Ohio State University, Ph.D: U of C, English language and literature (Walter A., “Deracination: historicity, Hiroshima, and the tragic imperative,” gbooks)

For several reasons, Hiroshima … inaugural postmodern act.

Our interrogation of the violent nature of memory surrounding Hiroshima is the duty of engaged intellectuals. There is no middle ground – either you are raising hell or you are complicit in the extinction of humanity.
Hayer, 94 – (“A World of Corpses,” Positions)

What I have tried … demand the impossible.

And this is specifically true in the context of nuclear history.
Davis 01 – Walter Davis, Ph.D. 1969 The University of Chicago (with Distinction), English Language and Literature, Emphases: Literary Theory, Modern Literature M.A. 1966 Marquette University (with Honors) English Language and Literature B.A. 1964 Marquette University (Cum Laude) Double Major: English and Philosophy March 2002-Present: Professor Emeritus, The Ohio State University, Department of English September 1988-2002: Professor, The Ohio State University, Department of English September 1977-June 1988: Associate Professor, The Ohio State University, Department of English September 1969-June 1977: Assistant Professor, The University of California at Santa Barbara, Department of English, Deracination: Historiocity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic, pg. 197.

The image thereby … human face and the human deed.

Finally, our act of remembrance is key to recognize the shared precariousness of life. A critical intervention into the norms of representation opens up space for a new ethical-political strategy that precedes calculation.
Butler, 9 (Judith, Prof of Rhetoric at Berkeley, “Frames of War”)

It is precisely within … to "lose the you."