[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=RETHINKING THE FRONTIER= 

**SPACE...THE FINAL FRONTIER.**

**SINCE THE DAWN OF MANKIND – FOR MOST PEOPLE WANDERING THE EARTH – THIS SEEMINGLY ENDLESS WONDERLAND HAS BEEN NOTHING MORE THAN SOMETHING TO GAZE INTO. BUT TO THOSE UNWILLING TO ACCEPT THAT THERE EXISTS NATURAL BOUNDARIES IN THIS LIFE, SPACE HAS BECOME THE ULTIMATE CHALLENGE – A COMPLETELY UNTOUCHED CRADLE OF BEAUTY WAITING TO BE CLAIMED.**

**AND IN MODERN WESTERN CIVILIZATION, THIS CHALLENGE HAS BEEN ACCEPTED.**

**THESE ARE THE VOYAGES OF THE WEST. ITS MISSION: TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS, TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS, TO BOLDLY GO WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE...TO RECREATE THE AMERICAN IDENTITY IN ITS IMAGE.**

**WE BEGIN //OUR// DISCUSSION OF THIS YEAR'S RESOLUTION WITH SUCH A VOYAGE.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Raymond</span> <span class="CiteChar">Duvall</span>,<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Prof. U. Minnesota</span> <span class="CiteChar">&</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jonathan </span><span class="CiteChar">Havercroft</span>, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U. Victoria, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weaponization and the Production of Late-Modern Political Subjects”, Prepared for presentation at the annual meetings of the International Studies Association,</span> <span class="CiteChar">2006</span>,<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> p. http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p98680_index.html</span>
In Volume One of Capital, Marx chided classical political economists for their inability to explain how workers became separated from the means of production. Whereas political economists such as Adam Smith argued that a previous accumulation of capital was necessary for a division of labor, Marx argued that this doctrine was an absurd doctrine. Division of labor existed in pre-capitalist societies where workers were not alienated from their labor. Instead, Marx argued that the actual historical process of primitive accumulation of capital was carried out through brute force. <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The discovery of gold and silver in America, the extirpation, enslavement and entombment in mines of the indigenous population of that continent, the beginnings of the conquest and plunder of India, and the conversion of Africa into a preserve for the commercial hunting of blackskins, are all things which characterize the dawn of the era of capitalist production</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span> These idyllic proceedings are the chief moments of primitive accumulation (Marx, 1977: 915). <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The doctrine of space control is part</span>**</span>and parcel <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">of an ongoing process of such</span>**</span>primitive<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **accumulation.**</span> One of the purposes of the 1967 Outer Space Treaty was to keep outer space a commons where all states, regardless of technical ability or economic or military power, could participate in the potential benefits space has to offer. In the years since this treaty was signed, the primary economic use of space has been for commercial communications satellites. This industry has expanded dramatically in the last two decades. Total revenues for commercial space-related industries in 1980 were 2.1 billion dollars; by 2003 this figure had expanded to $91 billion and it was expected to increase at least as rapidly into the foreseeable future (SpaceSecurity.org, 2005). On the economic front,<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **space control is about determining who has access to this new economy. Positions in orbit for satellites are a new form of “real estate,” and by controlling access to** </span>outer<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **space the U.S. would be** </span>forcibly<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **appropriating the orbits around Earth,** </span>thereby<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **placing the U.S. in a position to determine which government**</span>**s** and corporations <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">could use space.</span>**</span> In effect, <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">orbital slots around earth would be turned into private property.</span>**</span> This process of primitive accumulation is of importance to our concerns in two ways. First, <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">the doctrine of space control represents the extension of U.S. sovereignty into outer space.</span>**</span> In addition to being a clear violation of international law, <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">it reinforces</span>**</span> the constitutive effect identified in the previous section on missile defense, namely to reinscribe <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">the</span>**</span>“hard shell”<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **borders of the U.S., which** </span>are<span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> now</span>**</span> extended to <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">include the “territory” of outer space. This simultaneously constitutes the exclusive sovereignty of the U.S., while displacing the sovereignty of other states.</span>**</span> Second, <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">space control bears significantly on the production of political subjectivities.</span>**</span> The original Star Trek series would begin with the voice of Captain Kirk describing space as the “final frontier”. While presenting the exploration of space as a largely peaceful enterprise, the TV show was also drawing upon its viewers’ “memories” of the “western frontier” of 19th century U.S. expansion. At least since the writings of Frederick Turner, there has been the notion that the frontier represents the well-spring of U.S. ingenuity, freedom, and creativity. According to Turner, <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">because as they expanded westward settlers in the U.S. had to </span>**</span>
1AC 2/6
<span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">continually adapt to a new environment, they became increasingly “American”. The theme of the frontier as essential for American identity has had a significant discursive role in U.S. imperialist expansion</span>**</span> (Turner, 1962). Although Turner concluded that the American frontier had closed by the late 1890s,<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **many** </span>Americans, most notably Theodore Roosevelt, <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">concluded</span>**</span>at just that time<span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that in order to maintain the exceptional American identity new frontiers had to be opened overseas. The notion of frontiers</span>**</span>, then,<span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> has been integral to the U.S. imperialist project since its outset. The doctrine of space control</span>**</span>, seen in this light, <span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">is simply an extension of the imperial logic. By expanding into and taking control of the “final frontier” the U.S. is continuing to renew an exceptional</span>**</span>—an exclusive—<span class="ReadingTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">identity by adapting itself to the harsh realities of a new environment.</span>**</span> So<span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span><span class="ReadingTextChar" style="font-size: 16px;">**the doctrine of space control can be read as extending U.S. sovereignty into orbit.**</span> While a clear violation of international law, this de facto expansion of U.S. sovereignty will have two effects. critical astropolitics 1nc shell 2/4 (continued)First, it enables a process of primitive accumulation, whereby orbital spaces around earth are removed from the commons initially established by the Outer Space Treaty, and places them under the control of the U.S. for use and perhaps even ownership by businesses sympathetic to U.S. interests. The U.S. becomes even more than it is now the state for global capitalism, the global capitalist state. Second,<span class="ReadingTextChar" style="font-size: 16px;">**this doctrine** </span>of space control<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **is part of the ongoing re-production of American subjects as “Americans”. Embedded within space control is the notion that space is a new frontier**</span>**.** Following the Turner thesis and Roosevelt’s doctrine of imperialist expansion,<span style="font-size: 16px;"> t**here has long been a drive for Americans to seek out new frontiers as a way of renewing the American identity and promoting American values of individuality, innovation, and exceptionalism.**</span>

**THIS REPRODUCTION OF THE AMERICAN IDENTITY HAS BEEN PRESENT SINCE THE VERY DISCOVERY OF THE NEW WORLD, EXCEPT NOW THE ERROND IN THE WILDERNESS HAS BECOME THE WEST’S ERROND IN THE UNIVERSE. THE PURITANS ATTEMPTED TO REPROUDCE ITS CULTURE AND PRACTICE ONTO THE INDIGINOUS WORLD DISGUISED IN BY THE VALE OF ASSISTANCE OR DEVELOPMENT. THIS IS KNOWN AS THE JEREMIAD, AND SUCH AN EXCEPTIONALIST DRIVE TO EXIST CAN ONLY RESULT IN THE MOST EXTREME FORMS OF IMPERIALISM.**
**SPANOS 2008** <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[William V, Professor at Binghamton, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, SUNY Press 2008, 207-209]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniel Webster's Bunker Hill orations are, of course, an entirely different genre from Parkman's histories, and their mise-en-scene—the Battle of Bunker Hill and the American Revolution in general—distant from the historian's.'" But his historical perspective is the same, a sameness that tes­tifies to this textual attitude's pervasiveness and its deeply backgrounded genealogy. Like Parkman's, </span><span class="ReadingTextChar">**it is an American exceptionalist problematic** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">determined by his New England heritage and</span> <span class="ReadingTextChar">**[that] takes the rhetorical form of the jeremiad**</span>. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">If there is a difference, it lies in Webster's more immediate relationship to his Puritan roots and to the jeremiad than Parkman's. But to identify Webster's problematic with American exceptionalism and its form of articulation with the jeremiad as such is inadequate. No less than his Puritan predecessors (e.g., John Danforth and Increase and Cotton Mather) and, Cooper and Parkman, what is at stake for Webster at each of the occasions of his Bunker Hill orations</span> <span class="ReadingTextChar">**is the perennial New World/ Old World opposition, the anxiety that the New World is becoming old**</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(effete and/or dispersed)</span> like Europe, and the need to identify a threat to the well-being of the covenanted nation that would both recuperate the failing consensus and renew the American peoples' productive energy<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">I quote from the representative last paragraph of the first of these com­memorating orations, which Webster delivered at the laying of the cor­nerstone of the Bunker Hill Monument at the site of the battle on June 17, 1825, its fiftieth anniversary. </span><span class="ReadingTextChar">**After identifying himself and his audience as the belated filial offspring of those Puritan founders**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>whose "patience and fortitude" and "daring enterprise" had "set the world an example of founding civil institutions on the great and united principles of human freedom and human knowledge (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">the echo of Winthrop's sermon on board The Arabella is distinct)," 17 and, more immediately, of the great pioneers of the American Revolution who died at Bunker Hill in their behalf, and the ground on which they stand to commemorate them, the site of "the sepulchers of our fathers,"</span> <span class="ReadingTextChar">**Webster****concludes**</span>:<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> And let the sacred obligations which have devolved on this gener­ation, and on us, sink deep into our hearts. Those who established our liberty and our government are daily dropping from among us. The great trust now descends to new hands. Let us apply our­selves to that which is presented to us, as our appropriate object. We can win no laurels in a war for independence. Earlier and wor­thier hands have gathered them all. Nor are there places for us by the side of Solon, and Alfred, and other founders of states. Our fathers have filled them. But there remains to us a great duty of defence and preservation, and there is opened to us, also, a noble pursuit, to which the spirit of the times strongly invites us. Our proper business is improvement.</span> <span class="ReadingTextChar">**Let our age be the age of improvement. In a day of peace, let us advance the arts of peace and the works of peace**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>Let us develop the resources of our land, call forth its powers, build up its institutions, promote all its great interests, and see whether we also, in our day and generation, may not perform something worthy to be remembered. Let us cultivate a true spirit of union and harmony.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In pursuing the great objects which our condition points out to us, let us act under a settled con­viction, and an habitual feeling, that these twenty-four States are one country. Let our conceptions be enlarged to the circle of our duties</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Let us extend our ideas over the whole of the vast field in which we are called to act. </span><span class="ReadingTextChar">**Let our object be, OUR COUNTRY, OUR WHOLE COUNTRY, AND NOTHING BUT OUR COUNTRY.** **And, by the bless‑ ing of God, may that country itself become a vast and splendid monument, not of oppression and terror, but of Wisdom, of Peace, and of Liberty**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>upon which the world may gaze with admi­ration for ever! <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(WS, 253-254; my emphasis) In this conclusion, Webster highlights by underscoring the ultimate raison d'etre of the occasion. The great, manly American heroes who inaugurated the American Revolution at the Battle of Bunker Hill are gradually "drop­ping from among us," suggesting not simply this influential New England lawmaker's mourning over their demise, but also, and primarily, his anxi­ety over the belated present generation of Americans, who, living a half- century after the vital heroic and patriotic fathers in a time he represents as one of peace and prosperity, are thus susceptible to the enervating influ­ences of the refinements of settled life</span>. <span class="ReadingTextChar">**Webster underscores this anxiety by pointing to the absence**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(in the wake of the War of 1812) of an enemy that threatens the American way: "We can win no laurels in a war of indepen­dence. Earlier and worthier hands have gathered them all." This, as we have seen since Mary Rowlandson's captivity narrative,</span> is the necessary enemy that is God's or History's means of trying and tempering the faith and confidence of Americans, the prerequisite of patriotism and rejuve­nation of the covenantal people and their divinely ordained or destined errand. <span class="ReadingTextChar">**Thus he is compelled to turn precisely to that which threatens to enervate the will of his belated generation: the "defense," "preservation," and, above all, "improvement**</span>**"** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">of what the pioneers of the Battle of Bunker Hill accomplished.</span>
**IT IS THIS IDENTITY REBORN IN SPACE THAT RENEWS THE ONTOLOGICAL TRADITION OF WESTERN METAPHYSICS, OF VIEWING EXISTANCE FROM ABOVE AS A MEANS TO DECIDE WHAT OUGHT TO EXIST WITHIN THE INFINITE POSSIBILITIES OF OUR UNIVERSE DISPITE THE FACT THAT THESE POSSIBILITIES WILL ALWAYS BE UNTAMABLE.**
**WE CHOOSE THE LATTER -- IT IS THIS CONTRAST THAT IS KNOWN AS THE NOTHING OF OUR POLITICAL PROJECTS, AND IS VIEWED AS DANGEROUS TO THE WESTERN IMPERIALIST MACHINE, JUSTIFYING ANY MEANS OF ELIMINATION IN THE NAME OF SECURING WESTERN POWER AND DOMINANCE.**
**THE DOMINANT FORM OF KNOWLEDGE, OF POWER, AND OF SOCIETY WISHES TO ERASE “THE NOTHING” FROM THE “SOMETHING”…TO RID THINGS CONTRARY TO NORMALITY FROM WHAT IS PREFERRED OR VIEWED AS ACCEPTABLE. IT IS THIS “SOMETHING” THAT IS MOST NOTABLY KNOWN IN THE POLITICAL AND THE SOCIAL AS THE WEST…THE DOMINANT…THE POWERFUL…AND THE RIGHT. IN ORDER TO BETTER UNDERSTAND THIS CONCEPTION OF IMPERIAL LOGIC, WHICH IS TO SAY, THE SOMETHING, AND ITS RELATION TO WESTERN THINKING, IT IS IMPERATIVE TO UNDERSTAND METAPHYSICS AND ITS EXISTANCE INSIDE AND OUTSIDE THIS WORLD. TO THINK METAPHYSICALLY IS TO THINK IN SUCH A WAY THAT ONE VIEWS ITSELF ABOVE OR AT THE END OF THE OBJECT, MAKING SUCH AN OBJECT ABLE TO BE MANIPULATED AND USED BY THE SUBJECT FOR THE SUBJECT’S SAKE…TO VIEW THE SUBJECT WITH A PURPOSE AND NOTHING MORE…TO BE TRANSFORMED INTO A PART OF THE “SOMETHING”…IT BECOMES CIVILIZED. IF THERE EXISTS NO PURPOSE FOR THE OBJECT, THAN THE OBJECT IS SEEN AS USELESS AND DISPOSABLE…AND AN EVEN WORSE FATE AWAITS A**


**OBJECT THAT THREATENS THE SUBJECT, FOR THREATS SHAN’T BE TOLERATED, ESPECIALLY IN TIMES OF STRUGGLE…AND UNTIL THE “NOTHING”, EVERYTHING THAT STANDS IN THE WAY OF THE WEST AND ALL OF ITS GLORY IS GONE, SUCH A STRUGGLE WON’T END. SUCH IS THE DESTRUCTIVE NATURE OF THE SOMETHING, AND ITS QUEST FOR SAMENESS.**

**IT IS MORE SPECIFICALLY THE TOPICAL NOTHING IN WHICH WE AFFIRM AKA THE ASPECTS OF THE RESOLUTION THAT ARE ALWAYS PUSHED ASIDE FROM WHAT IT MEANS TO BE SOMETHING CONSTANTLY DRIVEN TO THE MARGINS OF POLITICAL DECISION MAKING BECAUSE THERE IS ALWAYS THAT SOMETHING THAT WE’RE TOLD SHOULD BE THOUGHT ABOUT BEFORE IT.**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">THE ROLE OF THE BALLOT IS TO VIEW THIS YEAR’S RESOLUTION, WHICH STATES </span>RESOLVED: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS EXPLORATION AND/OR DEVELOPMENT OF SPACE BEYOND THE EARTH'S MESOSPHERE AS A MEANS TO RETHINK THE FRONTIER.**


**VOTING AFF IS A WAY OF APPROACHING AND CREATING POLITICS, WHICH CAN RESIST THE WILL TO VIOLENCE PRESENT IN THE WESTERN IDEOLOGY OF COLONIAL VIOLENCE.**


<span class="Underline">Young 87</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (M. Jane, Professor of American Studies and Regents Lecturer, both at the University of New Mexico, “Parables of the Space Age-The Ideological Basis of Space Exploration,” Western Folklore, October of 1987,DA:6/25/11, CP)</span>

The "mainstream" American view of outer space is a reflection of traditional ideologies, the projection of the past onto the future. The urge toward adventure and exploration-travel into the unknown has been a basic element of folklore and mythology since the early days of Western civilization.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> One can consider, as Williamson suggests, the Greek myth of Icarus and Daedulus flying through the sky with artificial wings, or the Christian biblical story of the building of the tower of Babel. Both tales describe human attempts to bridge the gap between heaven and earth, both attempts resulted in disaster, and both contain warnings that the gods will punish humans whose hubris (inordinate pride or belief in one's own ability) leads them to overstep their proper place and enter the realm of the gods. Linked with such hubris throughout history has been </span>the Euro-American notion of "manifest destiny," the belief that exploration and consequent exploitation is not only a challenge but a right. Certainly, one outcome of this idea was the European colonization of the "New World," based on the erroneous notion that the land was inhabited only by savage peoples and, therefore, open territory for those from "civilized" nations. The resulting years of struggle and misunderstanding between Western Folklore<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 46 (October, 1987): 227-233. </span>227 Euro-Americans and Native Americans arose, in part, because of their differing world views-their conflicting perspectives concerning the relationship between humans and the natural world. Whereas Europeans saw the elements of the cosmos as forces to explore and conquer, the Native Americans regarded them as living beings with whom they attempted to coexist in harmony<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For instance, tribes such as the Navajo and Pawnee regarded the sky and earth as beings to whom they were intimately connected; the journey towards understanding these beings was accomplished in the context of ritual activity. Thus, for the Native American, the "real" adventure was internal, an exploration of one's own being in relationship to the cosmos. In contrast, for Euro-Americans the challenge was external. They set out to conquer the wilderness and push the frontier ever westward. Their folk heroes, generally masculine, were those who accomplished this task.</span> Certain characteristics of such folk heroes necessarily changed as the frontier itself changed, but a constant was the image of this hero as a loner, a rugged and aggressive individual who traveled unknown territories, guided always by the spirit of adventure, the thrill of the unknown.' These qualities were embodied in turn by personages such as the woodsman, the pioneer, the cowboy, the oilman, the businessman, and, finally, the spaceman, all characterized as much by their exploitation of the natural environment as by their drive towards exploration. In recent times, as various areas of the earth have been labelled nostalgically as the "last frontier," the need for adventure and for new sources of energy has given rise to the concept of outer space as the "new frontier." Strengthened by representations in the media, the lore of the western frontier has been used to argue for the expanded exploitation and settlement of outer space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The internal/external, Native American/Euro-American contrast mentioned above relates to the way differing peoples regard their bodies as well as to their attitudes toward the relationship between themselves and the cosmos. For example, according to Keith Basso, the Western Apache say that Euro-Americans (or Anglos, whites) are overly concerned with the "surfaces of themselves ... their hair, faces, body, and dress."2 In contrast, the Western Apache are anxious to avoid this form of self-consciousness that pertains only to appearance, rather than to inner reality. Mary Douglas argues similarly that the use of the human body is a significant symbol of social and political order.3 </span>Thus, the Anglos, concerned with the outside of their bodies, and hoping to be noticed, are also concerned with extending their domain, first into the frontier of the American West and now into the frontier of outer space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In contrast, Native American groups such as the Navajo, Zuni, Hopi, and Western Apache pay little attention to the external body. Examples of this are the healing ceremonies that focus on the mind as much as the body. Nor do individuals from these tribes wish to be seen as different or standing out. Significantly, these Native American groups focus on inner-directed experience. The adventure for them has been to live in balance and harmony with the natural world. Since Native Americans travel to the sky in their minds, they have no need to build space shuttles. Stoeltje emphasizes that </span>the metaphor of the frontier as applied to outer space is a false metaphor, a construct that maintains a sense of excitement while obscuring the reality that the endeavor is essentially a materialistic enterprise. Stoeltje adds that the term metaphor implies a similarity between outer space and the western frontier that is lacking; instead, it is the concept of the frontier as entitling myth, as unambiguous justification for an authorative plan of action, which shapes the U.S. space program. Williamson uses his unique position to explore the way in which the concept of outer space as frontier affects the direction of the U.S. space program, suggesting at the same time that the analogy between settling the American West and settling space may be seriously flawed. It has been suggested that the real motivation behind the early Apollo moon shots was political rather than scientific.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In fact, a number of the scientists involved have complained that they were not given time between one shot and the next to analyze the material brought back from the moon, nor has such analysis been a major consideration since then.4 </span>One needs only to consider the image of big business as a new frontier to realize that the prime aim of space exploration is not so much to obtain knowledge of the unknown as it is to obtain a replacement for earth's dwindling natural resources. It is only a small leap from this to the assertion that humans have begun to look towards outer space for an almost magical solution to the problems we have created here on earth by our excessively materialistic orientation. Thus, not only is outer space the "new frontier" in the sense of physical exploration, it has also become an arena for the projection of fantasies<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Mary O'Drain suggests, for example, that the gods of early Western mythology have given rise to the extraterrestrials of today, those benevolent beings who will have the knowledge and resources to repair the mistakes we have made.5 The answers are located "out there," rather than within ourselves. Another example of this reliance on a "fantastic" solution to earth's dilemma is the tendency in recent times to translate faith in a myth sequence or the tenets of religion into overweening faith in "the wonders of Science." Among modern, </span>technologically-oriented Americans, not only has the belief in UFOs and extraterrestrial beings become the folkloric expression of traditional ideologies, but science has replaced myth as the sacred charter, the system of beliefs that mediate between the known and the unknown. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It is for reasons such as these that Williamson advises us to explore the expressive behavior embodied in space exploration. The scientists, engineers, technicians, astronauts and others involved can be regarded as constituting a folk group whose behavior reflects the human role in outer space. </span>This professional "new class" has its own mythologies-systems of signs and signification that serve them in reaching goals consonant with their own particular worldview.6 These myths, in turn, shape reality so that these people are bound to view certain aspects of experience, such as the meaning of outer space and space exploration, from a limited perspective<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Although they rationalize this perspective by asserting that it is informed by science rather than myth, and therefore objective, in reality what we call</span> science is just another word for a contemporary, subjective mythology<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.7 In relating the exploration of outer space to the Euro-American exploration of the frontier, replete with its pioneers, Conestoga wagons, frontiersmen, and so on, this professional new class is appropriating a myth that justifies their activity. The result is a distortion of the frontier experience, the creation of an artificial myth based on an experience that is no longer viable. However, according to Barthes, this "re- constituted myth will in fact be a mythology."8 Furthermore, as Stoeltje points out</span>, the frontier myth itself was from the
beginning an artificial myth, created and disseminated largely by members of the Eastern elite who "nurtured a myth that validated the social structure as they preferred it." She describes the frontier of space as a "sociopolitical process ... designed to validate a specific social structure and development during a time of change and upheaval." As Farrer, too, points out, "our stories influence our science which influences our stories." Her conclusion, consonant with all the essays in this section, is that we cannot predicate the future upon the past, that we need a new mythology for a new age<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Indeed, it has been argued that we need a new science as well, one that recognizes the subjective nature of all human endeavor and encompasses feeling and intuition as well as logical thought.9 One might question Williamson's labeling the group of professionals directly involved in </span>the U.S. space program as a "folk group." This hinges, of course, on the definition of the folk adopted by contemporary folklorists.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> One of the most radical definitions is offered by Michael Owen Jones, who suggests that we replace the word "folklore" with the term "human behavior."'0 In such a conceptualization there is little distinction between the elite, popular (mass-mediated), and folk cultural expressions of the mythologies discussed above. Indeed, as early as 1972, Henry Glassie stated that the terms folk, popular, and elite referred not to separate socio-economic classes of people but to opposing mental constructs of the individual. Thus one person could, in different situations, express concepts that were folk, popular, or elite." Similarly, Stoeltje suggests that the folklore process in a complex society "thrives in a web of forces directly connected to the larger world as well as to the intimate relations of the family and tribe." All of these scholars imply, then, that </span>the mythologies of folk, popular, and elite groups operate in a similar manner-as sociocultural processes that serve to validate culture, that create an image of the world particular groups prefer to see, and that justify certain actions and behaviors that are regarded as desirable. Furthermore, many contemporary scholars perceive little real distinction between these groups, other than one based on the idiosyncratic intuition of the folklorist<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>The proponents of the U.S. space program have consciously constructed the Myth of Space as the New Frontier to justify a materialistic rather than ideological enterprise. And, indeed, the myth has served them well in creating around the astronaut and other professionals involved with the exploration of space, an image of heroes and frontiersmen who venture into the great unknown of space for the good of all humankind<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Although this myth has gone largely unchallenged, perhaps because there have been so few tragedies (at least few that the general public has known about) linked with the space program, the recent explosion of the Challenger and deaths of its crew-men and women who could have stepped right out of the pages of Tom Wolfe's The Right Stufjf2-has served to shock many people into wondering if the adventure is worth such loss. Others say that we owe it to the noble crew to continue the program. One newspaper editorial cartoon shows a mourning cowboy leaning against his Conestoga wagon (complete with oxen) as he looks towards seven crosses-the entire scene is set in a star- and planet-studded "frame" of outer space.13 In addition, the awareness of this tragedy, the "very thought of unnecessary loss of life," led to the series of Challengerjokes that rapidly swept the country, a series of "sickjokes</span>" whose underlying motive was the impulse to ward off threats of personal death and global disaster.'4 Not merely examples of extreme tastelessness, what these jokes are really "about" are some crucially serious issues in American culture; they serve as social commentary and critique<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.15 </span>




=Negative= 
=FRONTIER= 
THEIR UNDERSTANDING OF OUTER SPACE AS AN ARENA FOR WESTERN EXPANSION AND UNDERSTANDING OF THE WORLD IS THE VERY SOCIO-POLITICAL FRONTIERISM THAT WE FIND SEALED WITHIN CURRENT US SPACE POLICY AND ITS EFFORTS TO RECREATE ITSELF INTO A NEW WORLD ORDER. IN ORDER TO BETTER UNDERSTAND SUCH A EUROCENTRIC DIALECTIC, WE BEGIN A DESTRUCTIVE CRITICISM OF “THE FRONTIER” AND THE VIOLENT ONTOLOGY FROM WHICH IT DERIVES.

**Young 87**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(M. Jane, Professor of American Studies and Regents Lecturer, both at the University of New Mexico, “Parables of the Space Age-The Ideological Basis of Space Exploration,” Western Folklore, October of 1987,DA:6/25/11, CP)</span>

THE IMPERIAL PROCESS OF EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT, OF PERPETUATING THE VIOLENT WESTERN IDENTITY INTO THE STARRY ABYSS IS NOTHING MORE THAN CULTURAL, SOCIAL, AND POLITICAL WARFARE MADE INVISIBLE THROUGH MYTHS OF PROGRESSION, CIVILIZATION AND MODERNIZATION. THIS MOVE TOWARDS A COMPLETE REIGN OF EXCEPTIONALISM GUARANTEES A FORM OF ERROR-REPLICATION THAT JUSTIFIES THE DEATH OF DIFFERENCE.

**Slotkin 92**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Richard Slotkin a cultural critic and historian. He is the Olin Professor of English and American Studies at Wesleyan University in Middletown, CT, and in 2010 was elected a member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences wrote award winning trilogy, Regeneration Through Violence, The Fatal Environment, and Gunfighter Nation , 1992, Gunfighter Nation, The Myth of the Frontier in 20th century America, pg 112-114 E169.12 .S57 1992, DA: 6/24/11, CP)</span>



Thus our alternative is to reject the American frontier myth – Only then can a destabilization of the ideological violence that is Western ontology exist as we open national identity to a state of fluidity necessary for genuine freedom.

**Clifford, ‘1**
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">[Michael, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Mississippi State University, //Political Genealogy After Foucault: Savage Identities//, p. 134-137]</span>



**This debate is all about methodology – There is no opportunity for a permutation because the 1AC has already done harm. Its advancement of the frontier myth has constructed a universal narrative of violence that has subjected bodies to nationalism, imperialism and epistemological violence. A debate about methods allows us to determine the most education and productive forum for politics because it not just what you have done but what you have justified. Questioning history is critical to challenge exclusion and imperialism – this evidence is specific to high school students and colonial nation state histories**
**Trofanenko, ‘5**
<span style="color: #000000;">[Brenda, Professor in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction at the University of Illinois, //The Social Studies//, Sept/Oct]</span>

=BENEATH THE NEON= 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">//DING!// **FIRST STOP! LAS VEGAS!**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Burke 08**, </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Adam, Writer for NPR) December 4, 2008 “Sucked into the tunnels underneath Las Vegas” </span><span style="color: #0000ff;">__[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=97800190]]__</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**MUCH LIKE THE NEON LIGHTS OF LAS VEGAS, THE FLICKERING STARS ABOVE HAVE BECOME A TOURIST TRAP, BLINDING US FROM THE OPPRESSIVE REALITY SOCIETY’S MOST DISADVANTAGED MEMBERS ENDURE. MUMIA ABU JAMAL CALLED THIS INTO QUESTION WHEN HE SAID.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998 [“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]]</span>

**IT IS IN THIS NEON HYPNOSIS THAT WE FIND THE AFFIRMATIVE, TOO CAUGHT UP IN REACHING FOR THE SKIES TO CARE ABOUT THE PEOPLE UNDERGROUND. TO ADDRESS THIS OPPRESSION WE MUST FIRST RECOGNIZE THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS HERMETICALLY TRAPPED IN ITS OWN IDEALS, AND CONTINUALLY SACRIFICES THE OTHER IN THE NAME OF ITS GLORIOUS NEON LIGHTS.**
**Wadiwel in 02**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Dinesh Joesph, “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol.1 #2)</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**POLITICS, OR DEBATE TEAMS, THAT CHOOSE TO IGNORE THE REALITY OF OPPRESSION ONLY SERVE TO CREATE AND RE-CREATE THAT OPPRESSION, AND FAIL TO CREATE ANY REAL CHANGE.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Paulo **Friere**, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University,19**70** </span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO PUSH DOWN; TO BEGIN POLITICS FROM THE STANDPOINT OF THE OPPRESSED. THESE POLITICS ARE ABLE TO COMBAT OPPRESSION THROUGH A KNOWLEDGE BASED STANDPOINT FROM THOSE WHO HAVE NOTHING ELSE TO GIVE. THIS KNOWLEDGE IS KEY TO BREAK DOWN THE OPPRESSIVE POWER STRUCTURES THAT GOVERN US.** </span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 10.6667px;">Brent R.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">**Henze****2000**</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 10.6667px;">“Who Says Who Says?: The Epistemological Grounds for Agency in Liberatory Political </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Projects.” Found in Reclaiming Identity: Realist theory and the predicament of postmodernism. Edited by Paula Moya and Michael Hames-Garcia</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]