[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Observation 1 is Inherency: Lack of funding and clear responsibility with the United States federal government results in lack of development, despite viability of technology. Shea, Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University, 2010 (Karen Cramer, Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html NP)

Space solar power................................................... and enforcement provided.
ADV.1 IS POVERTY

Low income communities are toast because of climate change- they are both most effected and seen as the solution to a problem perpetuated by the developed world.

The telegraph, Minorities 'hardest hit' by climate change, 2:30PM GMT 11 Mar 2008 http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/earthnews/3335691/Minorities-hardest-hit-by-climate-change.html

Environmental disasters across the world.........................................................................................of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities and indigenous peoples worldwide, include:

Rapid industrialization will entrench energy poverty- Space based solar power prevents this and improves the living conditions for those most effected by global warming.

Peter E. Glaser, member of National Space Society Board of Governors, former Vice President for Advanced Technology at Arthur D. Little, Inc., fellow of the American Association of the Advancement of Science and the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics, inducted into the Space Technology Hall of Fame, , 2000 “The World Needs Energy from Space,”

Humanity faces a new energy crisis. ............................................................................. The second DC-to-microwave converter of the SPS can be either microwave tube system and/or semiconductor system. It may be their combination. The third segment is a gigantic antenna array known as rectenna.

The innovation of SPS can be globally competitive and benefit low income communities

N. KAYA, Kobe University, J. MANKINS, NASA, B. ERB, D. VASSAUX csa and G. PIGNOLET CNES, D. KASSING, ESA/ESTEC-FSA, P. COLLINS, NASDA 2001, REPORT OF WORKSHOP ON CLEAN AND INEXHAUSTIBLE SPACE SOLAR POWER AT UNISPACE III CONFERENCE, Acta Astronautica Vol.49, No.11, pp.627–630

Energy demand in the world,................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (4) The concerted e􏰁orts of many individuals and organizations internationally are required to enable new renewable global energy— including SSP.


SPS changes the logic of the energy industry- it will be perceived as a peaceful technology to assist the developing world.

Taylor Dinerman, well-known and respected space writer regarding military and civilian space activities, 2008 the space review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1

It was a little more than a month ago when the crisis in the Caucasus erupted............................................................. should concentrate on reducing the technological unknowns and setting the stage for future developments in the middle or end of the next decade. The old Strategic Air Command’s motto was “Peace is our Profession”. This might be a good one for the emerging SSP industry.

The continuation of global poverty is a thermonuclear war against the poor- empirically kills more than flash point conflict

James Gilligan, Department of Psychiatry Harvard Medical School, VIOLENCE: REFLECTIONS ON OUR DEADLIEST EPIDEMIC, 2000, p 195-196.
The 14 to 18 million deaths a year cause by structural violence compare ..............................................................................................No energy means developing countries will continue to have education and economic problems- SPS access would pull many out of poverty

Fatih Birol, Chief Economist of the International Energy Agency, The Energy Journal, 2007 Volume 28, Number 3 Energy economics: a place for energy poverty in the agenda?//Trilling

I believe.....................To tackle the challenge successfully we need to feel the pain of the poor and harness the power of energy to help make poverty history.

Advantage 2 is the Environment

Scenario 1 is Warming

SPS is the ideal clean energy to solve warming – minimal pollution and resource use

Garretson, a Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) International Fellow in India, previously the Chief of Future Science and Technology Exploration for Headquarters Air Force, Directorate of Strategic Plans and Programs, 09 (Peter A., “Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, The Next Major Step In The Indo-US Strategic Partnership?”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/papers/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf)

While no energy source is entirely benign, the SBSP concept has significant things to recommend it for the environmentally conscious and those wanting to develop green energy sources................................................... is perhaps 15 per cent efficient (rejecting 85 (per cent) while a

fossil fuel plan is likely to be less than 40 per cent efficient (rejecting 60 per cent to the biosphere). The high efficiency of the receivers also means that unlike thermal and nuclear power plants, there is no need for active cooling and so no need to tie the location of the receiver to large amounts of cooling water, with the accompanying environmental problems of dumping large amounts of waste heat into rivers or coastal areas.
ONLY SPS supplies the power needed for a sustainable energy transition

James M. Snead, P.E., is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, 5/4/2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1

A key element of a well-reasoned ................................... practically and politically expanded, reasonableness dictates that the serious engineering development of SSP be started now.

Feedback cycles exacerbate warming leading to extinction

Oliver Tickell, environmental researcher, 2008, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)

We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming.........................................................................It appears that an initial warming pulse triggered other warming processes. Many scientists warn that this historical event may be analogous to the present: the warming caused by human emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth.

Scenario 2 is Natural Disasters
SPS provides direct and instant relief to natural disasters

NSSO, National Space Security Office, 2007 (“Space-Based Solar Power as an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, pages 41-42)

For the DoD specifically, beamed energy from space in quantities greater than 5 MWe has the potential to be a disruptive game changer on the battlefield. S........................................perhaps the greatest military benefit of SBSP is to lessen the chances of conflict due to energy scarcity by providing access to a strategically security energy supply.

SPS can control weather– prevents natural disasters and controls rainfall

Dr. Bernard J. Eastlund, B. S. in physics from MIT and a Ph.D. in physics from Columbia University, and Lyle M. Jenkins, Project Engineer, NASA Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, Eastlund Scientific Enterprises , “Thunderstorm Solar Power Satellite-Key to Space Solar Power’”, October 2008, http://electricalandelectronics.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/01235075.pdf//jchen=

The application of the Solar Power Satellite for the prevention of tornadoes was proposed by ................................... to steer the storms away from metropolitan regions. The ultimate application of a full system might be to steer the jet stream to manipulate the rainfall patterns on the earth’s surface. Even with the expensive TSPS, it is likely that the intervention cost for a particular storm will not approach the cost for preventing acts of terrorism with similar casualties [Ref. 131


Unchecked natural disasters culminate in extinction

Sid-Ahmed, writer for Al-Ahram Weekly, 1/12/2005, Al-Ahram Weekly (Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, “The post-earthquake world”, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm)

The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within living memory. What happened in South Asia is the ecological equivalent of 9/11............................................................................millions of years and not affect us directly in any way. We are now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.
Contention Three Solvency:
Congress Key—NASA and Department of Energy need Congressional action to increase space based solar power.

Schubert, Ph.D., P.E., Packer Engineering, Inc., Naperville, IL, 2010 (Peter J., Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html NP)

At present, neither NASA, nor the US Department of Energy..................................................Without a central organization to guide and combine research efforts, SSP research is likely to remain fragmented and ineffective. A new organization is needed.


Coordinated national policy will ensure development of space based solar power. This also means that your xo counterplan won’t work without the coordination provided by the plan.
Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07

(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)

<FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP development over the past 30 years has made little progress because it “falls between the cracks” of currently‐defined responsibilities of federal bureaucracies, and has lacked an organizational advocate within the US Government.

The current bureaucratic lanes are drawn in such a way..............................but it is also not the country’s Department of Energy, and must focus itself on war prevention and warfighting concerns.

A similar problem exists in the private sector. .............................. progress is likely to be slow. >


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]