[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">Inherency</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The US is losing its grasp on space—countries are attempting to attack US space systems</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Forrest E. Morgan, Ph.D. in policy studies, University of Maryland; M.A.A.S. in airpower arts and sciences, Senior political scientist @ Rand, 9/15/10, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Given the great extent to which the United</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">-strike stability in space may be eroding.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Space weaponization inevitable—history, technology, and deterrence theory prove</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Wade Huntley et al 10, Senior Lecturer at Naval Postgrad School, Simons Center for Disarmament and Non-Proliferation Research, Joseph Block, University of British Columbia, Associate Professor at Hiroshima Peace Research Institute, Hiroshima City University, Miranda Weingartner, Director of the Global Peace and Security Program at Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, February 2010, Space Policy, “Planning the Un-plannable: Scenarios on the future of space”</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Behind these concerns, however, has been</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">alternative futures for life on Earth as well.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Plan: The United States federal government should implement a ballistic missile defense system beyond the mesosphere.</span>

==<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">Hegemony</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">China is rapidly militarizing space and will surpass the US – this destroys hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Ben Blanchard, 7/11/11 [Reuters correspondent based in Beijing, cites a report by the Journal of Strategic Studies [Reuters, “China ramps up military use of space with new satellites report”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/07/12/china-satellites-idUSL3E7I902220110712]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">(Reuters) - China is developing cutting</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">(Editing by Brian Rhoads and Yoko Nishikawa) </span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Space defense systems are key to prevent US-Sino conflict over Taiwan – avoids pre-emptive strikes and escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Tellis ’07 (Ashley Tellis, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Senior Associate, 8/1/11, “China’s Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49:3, pg 63-64)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Above all is the need for a longer</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">the added complications of accidents and further misperception.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Nuclear war with global draw-in</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Hunkovic**,** American Military University, 09 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">A war between China, Taiwan and the</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">countries will not be considered in this study.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Multiple scenarios for conflict are inevitable- hegemony prevents nuclear escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Kagan ‘7 (Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7-19-2007, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">This is a good thing, and it should</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">global involvement will provide an easier path. </span>

==<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">Rogues</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The US is unready to face an unprecedented number of missile threats</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Foreign Policy Analysis 09’ By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Twenty-first century threats to the United</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">little or no warning before operational deployment. 2</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">BMD solves—sets a high standard against transgressors</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Dolman et. al ’06 (Everett C. Dolman, Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Peter Hays, senior policy analyst with the Science Applications International Corporation, Karl Mueller, political scientist with the RAND Corporation, specializing in air and space strategy and other defense policy issues, 3/10/06, “Toward a Grand U.S. Strategy in Space,” George C. Marshall Institute, pg 24-25)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Nonetheless, we have a different system today</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">transformation becomes the prime motivator for meaningful change.</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">But, the US doing it first is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Everett C. Dolman is Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force's School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 2006, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/sais_review/v026/26.1dolman.html, SAIS Review 26.1 163-175</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">In such circumstances, America certainly would respond</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">the next few years—is extremely remote.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Scenario 1 is Iran</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Iran can develop ICBM’s by 2015 and launch an EMP over the United States</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Foreign Policy Analysis 09’ By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">With the benefit of assistance from abroad,</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">claim was later confirmed by Iranian officials. 29</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">An EMP attack kills millions and destroys the economy – only space based missile defense solves</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Kennedy 08’ By BRIAN T. KENNEDY, WSJ, Mr. Kennedy is president of the Claremont Institute and a member of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense. NOVEMBER 24, 2008, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122748923919852015.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">“What a Single Nuclear Warhead Could Do: Why the U.S. needs a space-based missile defense against an EMP attack.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">As severe as the global financial crisis now</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">missile defense a reality as soon as possible.</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Economic decline causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">O'Donnell, 9 (Sean, Baltimore Republican Examiner, a graduate student at the University of Baltimore studying law and ethics, B.A. in History from the University of Maryland, a Squad Leader in the Marine Corps Reserve, Will this recession lead to World War III? February 26, http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III#comments)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Could the current economic crisis affecting this country</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">is averted. However sometimes history repeats itself.</span>


==<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">Solvency </span>== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Just the development of the plan gives us our impacts—DARPA also proves feasibility</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Lt. Col. Lorinda Frederick, US Air Force, Planning Officer at STRATCOM, 9-1-2009, Air University, //Air and Space Power Journal//, “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense,”</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">When he entered office in 1981, President</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">President Reagan refused to accept any restrictions.</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The timeframe is 3 years</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Foreign Policy Analysis 09’ By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Because space-based defenses offer the widest</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">.1 billion in inflation-adjusted 2008 dollars</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Countries can’t adapt to plan – boost phase interceptor and technological infeasibility</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Lt. Col. Lorinda Frederick, US Air Force, Planning Officer at STRATCOM, 9-1-2009, Air University, //Air and Space Power Journal//, “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense,”</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Potential adversaries may develop countermeasures in response to</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">towards exploring and developing the potential of SBMD.</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Space-based NMD is feasible, effective, fast, and comparatively better than land based NMD</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Howard Kleinberg, Prof Public and Intl. Affairs @ UNC Wilmington, April 2011, “A Global Missile Defense Network: Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” lexis</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Nevertheless, all things considered, the best</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Relationship, and the Twenty -First Century."</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Realism good and true in the context of space policy</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Sheehan ‘7—Prof IR @ Univ. of Swansea, has lectured and written extensively for over 2 decades (Michael, “The International Politics of Space,” //Space, Power and Politics//, ed. Dolman and Sheldon, pg. 8-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">There are aspects of the history of national</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">the 1960s gave way to the 1970s.</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">A layered missile defense is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Lt. Col. Lorinda Frederick, US Air Force, Planning Officer at STRATCOM, 9-1-2009, Air University, //Air and Space Power Journal//, “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense,”</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The United States must maintain the technological capability</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">enabling future presidents to cross this threshold.</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]