[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Iowa City West (IA) - Jeffrey Ding & Liam Hancock#http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2011-2012+-+Iowa+City+West+%28IA%29+-+Jeffrey+Ding+%26+Liam+Hancock|Back to ICW HD Main Page]]
=Taoism= 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth—</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Kirkland</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2001</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Russell, “'Responsible Non-Action' in a Natural World: Perspectives from the Neiye, Zhuangzi, and Daode jing,” </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Daoism and Ecology: Ways within a Cosmic Landscape</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf)</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">In the Taoist</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">classic Huai-nan...</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">accepting</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the new state of things.’</span>



**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Live</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">in</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">present</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">: looking to the future makes life meaningless and denies any benefits your action would have</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Watts</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, dean of the American Academy of Asian Studies and research fellow at Harvard University, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1951</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Alan, </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Wisdom of Insecurity</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, pg 51-2)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">But </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">in the process of symbolizing ...</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">something of a temporary </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">breakdown</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to take no action to create desired ends—</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Kirkland</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1996</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Russell, “The Book of the Way,” </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Great Literature of the Eastern World</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Specifically, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the Tao is humble</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">yielding...</span>__
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">nothing can thwart its unceasing operation</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

=Cynicism= 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative merely adds on to the same ideology they criticize.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Carlson 99</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">David Gray Carlson Professor of Law, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law Columbia Law Review November, 1999</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Schlag presents a dark vision of</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">what ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">committed to what ought to be abolished.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Their distance allows totalitarianism.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zizek 95</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Slavoj Zizek Philosopher and Psychoanalyst, Institute for Social Sciences, University of Ljubljana. Cardozo Law Review 1995</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Emphasis should be laid on the inherent ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">never be rid of it.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to vote negative to over-identify with the very system they criticize.</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zizek 95</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Slavoj Zizek Philosopher and Psychoanalyst, Institute for Social Sciences, University of Ljubljana. Cardozo Law Review 1995</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">How are we to combateffectively ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the shift from desire to drive</span>


=Heidegger= 
**The 1AC’s enframing of strategic and technical reason reifies an ontology and epistemology of violence—their technological worldview reduces all beings to standing-reserve and guarantees extinction. Vote negative to exchange the ontology of being for one of becoming—this free relationship to technology entails a questioning that can break free from technological thought and re-imagine ontology from outside the political space**
**Burke 7**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, //Theory & Event//, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE, RBatra)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This essay develops a theory about the causes ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">and violence? Will our thought? </span>


=Anthro= 
**The desire to colonize other worlds is rooted in speciesism and promotes the violent instrumentalization of non-human life—ethical obligation to resist**

**Kochi and Ordan 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]]</span></span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">One dominant presumption that underlies ...</span>__
__our prosperity and desired living conditions?__

**The alternative is to endorse the global suicide of humanity – our total rejection of human agency and the continuation of human life functions as a valuable thought experiment that allows us to end the oppression of the squo.**

**Kochi and Ordan 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]]</span> </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">For some</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">guided by the pressure of moral conscience ...</span>__
__hard we try to forget, suppress or repress it.__ 

=Cyborg Co-option K= 
==1NC Shell== 
**We open our counter criticism with a piece of German literature. BIOCON, written by Reimar Cunis, explored in post-war Germany the process of cyborg-creation as it would be employed by a society ravaged by militarism, sexism, and classism. In the story, biological enhancement becomes a way to overcome aging, dullness, and sexual failings. The results for women are catastrophic, becoming remote controlled sex objects completely subjected to the will of the men who hate them.** 

**Simon, 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sunka. Associate Professor of German, Film and Media Studies at Swarthmore College. “Woman as Biocontrol: Rereading Donna Haraway Through German Science Fiction.” Women in German Yearbook: Feminist Studies in German Literature & Culture, Volume 24, 2008, pp. 119-141. Project Muse]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The story follows</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gulla's trials</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">as ...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">humanity as is less and the cyborg more desirable.</span>




**Unfortunately, we are today that same society, ravaged by the forces of militarism, sexism, and classism. The 1AC is a dangerous affirmation of a this process of technology that will inevitably cause de-selection – the forces of militarism and capitalism will co-opt the 1AC and use it for more malignant purposes than intended – though _Nathan_ and _Noah_ may have you convinced that voting for the 1AC is benign, your ballot is part of this process of affirmation – this is a link to the ETHICS OF AFFIRMING THE PLAN IN ADDITION TO THE PLAN’S IMPLEMENTATION – THE K FUNCTIONSIN EITHER FRAMEWORK**

**Crittenden, 2002**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chris. Assitant Professor in Applied Ethics at the University of Maine. Self-Deselection: Technopsychotic Annihiliation Via Cyborg. Ethics and the Environment 7/2 (2002) 127-152. Project Muse.]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">With a preliminary framework set, ...</span>__
__it comes time for cyborg soldiers.__



**The affirmative accelerates the process of deselection** 
**Crittenden, 2002**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chris. Assitant Professor in Applied Ethics at the University of Maine. Self-Deselection: Technopsychotic Annihiliation Via Cyborg. Ethics and the Environment 7/2 (2002) 127-152. Project Muse.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The central theme of this paper is self-deselection...</span>
__provide the initial basis for my concerns.__



**DO NOT BE FOOLED – The affirmatives run to de-selection, the process by which humans choose mechanization over biology, will not eliminate class, sexism, militarism, or homophobia, but instead will expand these forces exponentially. This logic is what culminates in the extinction mentality** 



**Crittenden, 2002**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chris. Assitant Professor in Applied Ethics at the University of Maine. Self-Deselection: Technopsychotic Annihiliation Via Cyborg. Ethics and the Environment 7/2 (2002) 127-152. Project Muse.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What such a person is claiming is that self...</span>
__a kind of information storage unit.__



**__ALTERNATIVE IS TO VOTE NEGATIVE__**

**By ditching scientific categorization in pursuance of a closeness with nature, we pursue with our own metaphor a process of affirming the intrinsic value of things – our ethic of personal growth and closeness with nature solves the inevitability of technological colonization, war, and extinction – THIS ARGUMENT WILL SOLVE ALL THEIR UNIQUENESS CLAIMS AND STILL AFFIRM THE VALUE OF EVERYTHING WITHOUT THE NEED FOR CYBORG** 



**Crittenden, 2002**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chris. Assitant Professor in Applied Ethics at the University of Maine. Self-Deselection: Technopsychotic Annihiliation Via Cyborg. Ethics and the Environment 7/2 (2002) 127-152. Project Muse.]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The ecofeminist model informs a...</span>__
__and the nurturance of a joyful mind.__ 



==2NC Stush== 
**No uniqueness trick - nothing is inevitable, least of all cyborg technology – through experimentation, discussion, and debate, the judge’s ballot can be used to reject the aff and imagine a different world -** 
**Garud et al 2010**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Raghu. Smeal College of Business, Pennsylvania State University. Along with Arun Kumaraswamy, Fox School of Business and Management, Temple University; and Peter Karnøe, Copenhagen Business School. “Path Dependence or Path Creation?” Journal of Management Studies 47.4. Google Scholar. ]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Throughout this commentary,</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">we have alluded ...</span>__
__specific actions in the present.__ 

**Wrong – As the Biocon industry illustrates, the 1AC will be captured by dangerous forces – the criticism reinforces the control of capitalist forces and leads to a purification impulse that causes the harms** 

**Simon, 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sunka. Associate Professor of German, Film and Media Studies at Swarthmore College. “Woman as Biocontrol: Rereading Donna Haraway Through German Science Fiction.” Women in German Yearbook: Feminist Studies in German Literature & Culture, Volume 24, 2008, pp. 119-141. Project Muse]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Here Cunis speaks to Haraway in that the ...</span>
__re-assembling the myth of the organic body.__ 


**Cyborgs reify gendered hierchies by identifying the cyborg with masculine or feminine traits – this leads to hypersexuality which re-enforces masculinity and gender as a category**
**Shabot****2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sara Cohen has a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the University of Haifa, Israel. She specialized in phenomenology and philosophies of the body. “Grotesque Bodies: A Response to Disembodied Cyborgs” Taylor and Francis) BW</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first issue that I want to address...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">avant-garde science fiction literature and films. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The affirmative does not lead to resistance – it leads to a colonizing mentality that will inevitably cause enslavement of the mind</span>

**Crittenden, 2002**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chris. Assitant Professor in Applied Ethics at the University of Maine. Self-Deselection: Technopsychotic Annihiliation Via Cyborg. Ethics and the Environment 7/2 (2002) 127-152. Project Muse.]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The foregoing arguments reveal a colonizing...</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Replacer syndrome that enslaves the mind. </span>__


**The alternative solves – eco-feminism provides an ethical framework of the intrinsic value of things that avoids the technological domination of the 1AC metaphor while at the same time avoiding essentialism – these two projects are mutually exclusive** 
**Crittenden, 2002**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chris. Assitant Professor in Applied Ethics at the University of Maine. Self-Deselection: Technopsychotic Annihiliation Via Cyborg. Ethics and the Environment 7/2 (2002) 127-152. Project Muse.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While not disputing that hyper-feminization ...</span>
__recognition" is the touchstone of proper moral relationship.__