[[toc]]
=THIS IS FOR THE ENTIRE HARKER TEAM= 
= = 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.September-October</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 1.0]]<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 17px;">Vegetarianism AC 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Law defines "recognize" as: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://research.lawyers.com/glossary/recognize.html]] Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Law. 2001. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"to acknowledge formally and to admit as being of a particular status" </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Aff doesn't defend enforcement of a particular policy. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The squo is present tense. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Neg Burden: Prove that justice does not requires the recognition of animal rights. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Ground - Most equitable ground.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Reciporcity - Permissibility is non-reciprocal. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Prefer aff interp in the absence </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1) NC can adapt to the AC, AC can't adapt to NC. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2) Without preference, neg can run theory on minute issues causing time skew in the 1AR. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Value is justice, giving each their due. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Standard is maximizing life. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Justice requires giving each their due, humans are inherently equal considering our statuses as rational beings. - </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Utilitarnianism is the internal link to egalitarianism. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Ronald Dworkin, Taking Rights Seriously, 1977, p. 234. MJ.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The utilitarian argument,……beholden to them. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Justice is a human construct, developed by philosophers who are ultimately human. Norms of justice seek to evaluate human action. The way humans empirically decide to act is via utilitarianism – maximizing the net good for society.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Moore – law prof, U San Diego – ‘97 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Michael Moore, Warren Distinguished Professor of Law at University of San Diego School of Law, 1997, Placing Blame, p. 719-722</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Non-Absolute Moral Norms:……… tor­turing the innocent.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">3. Not advocating utilitarianism allows the one to avoid tough choices while protecting their consciences – this is the nadir of any conception of justice and morality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Alinsky – ‘71 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Saul D. Alinsky, Activist, Professor, and Social Organizer with International Fame, Founder of the Industrial Areas Foundation, Rules for Radicals, 1971, p. 24-27</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">We cannot think…….. is life or death.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">4. Extinction comes first.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Jonathan Schell The Fate of the Earth, p.95 [[http://debate.uvm.edu/Library/DebateTheoryLibrary/Roskoski-Infinite%20Risk]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Up to now, every……..get another chance.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">5. Util- cost benefit analysis necessary in the context of the resolution:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Hills 2005—Alison, lecturer in philosophy at the University of Bristol, research fellow at Clare College, Do Animals Have Rights?, p. 176</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Death is bad for…..farmed and slaughtered.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">I advocate that justice requires the recognition of animal rights because it maximizes life.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">First is the Uniqueness:</span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The meat industry is on the rise.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Danielle Nierenberg, Happier Meals: Rethinking the Global Meat Industry, Worldwatch Paper 171, State of the World Library 2005.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Over the last half…..the impacts of these farms.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 1.0-Advantage 1 is Biodiversity]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 15px;">Advantage 1 is Biodiversity</span>**</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Livestock farming causes massive amounts of biodiversity loss and supercharges climate change impact.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Oxfam Novib, “People, planet and proteins: toward a just and sustainable livestock system”, October 29, 2010,[[http://www.oxfamnovib.nl/Pub/2010-Nr-5-English/2010-Nr-5-English-people-planet-proteins.html]] national organization that produces research reports that governments use to guide action.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Livestock farming causes……. impact on poor communities.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The aff solves, as forests can regenerate along with biodiversity in the absence of livestock production in these regions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Robert Goodland[1] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">As there is……has been foregone.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">And, loss of biodiversity causes ecosystem destruction and extinction of all life.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Diner, 94 [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">To accept that………. closer to the abyss. </span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 1.0-Advantage 2 is Warming]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 15px;">Advantage 2 is Warming</span>**</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Livestock account for more than 51% of all GHG’s. This excludes transportation emissions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert Goodland[2] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Livestock are already………understood as conservative.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Livestock reduction is the only solution. Renewable energy does not solve. The aff solves by eliminating need for livestock completely.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Robert Goodland[3] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A key risk factor………………. world food and water crises.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Impact: Runaway global warming leads to extinction.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Hsu, Systems Engineering & Risk Management, 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">(Dr. Feng Hsu, “Harnessing the Sun”, Winter 2010, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]], KJ)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The evidence of………….. and energy issues.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 2.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Vegetarianism AC 2.0</span></span>=== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Law defines "recognize" as:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://research.lawyers.com/glossary/recognize.html]] Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Law. 2001.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"to acknowledge formally and to admit as being of a particular status"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aff doesn't defend enforcement of a particular policy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The squo is present tense.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Neg Burden: Prove that justice does not requires the recognition of animal rights.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Ground - Most equitable ground.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Reciporcity - Permissibility is non-reciprocal.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T & theory should be based on reasonability.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Brightline - winning beyond doubt</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Competing interps create massive neg skew in race to bottom</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Magnifies time skew of 1AR</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4. Discourages debates on topic - reject on face</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V - Justice, giving each his/her due</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Standard - maximizing life</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Justice is a human construct. Humans act based on utilitarianism</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Unmasking the Motives of the Good Samaritan. By Claire Andre and Manuel Velasquez [Professors at SCU][[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/iie/v2n1/samaritan.html]] Issue in ethics - Winter 1989.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">You are likely...for their own welfare.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Life is prerequisite to valuing anything else.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Douglas Den Uyl and Douglas Rasmussen, Professors of Philosophy, Bellarmine College and St. John's University, READING NOZICK, Jeffrey Paul, ed., 1981, p245. (PDNSS1794)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In so far as one chooses...makes valuation possible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Resolution does not specify agent. All moral theories must not be agent-specific, only consequentialism is.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Philip Pettit [Prof. Philosophy, Princeton]. “Non-Consequentialism And Political Philosophy.” Enfoques, año/vol. XVIII, número 1-2. PP. 27-49 (2006)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In my earlier characterisation...by those principles.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Functionality comes before normative principles.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4. Competing meta-ethics means we ought to simply prevent extinction.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Nick Bostrom ‘11, “The Concept of Existential Risk”, 2011, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy [[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">These reflections on moral uncertainty...is the best one.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">5. Justice requires giving each their due, humans are inherently equal considering our statuses as rational beings. - Utilitarnianism is the internal link to egalitarianism.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">WHAT, IF ANYTHING, RENDERS ALL HUMANS MORALLY EQUAL?1 [published in Peter Singer and His Critics, ed. by Dale Jamieson (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)] Richard J. Arneson February, 1998</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All humans have an ... moral equality of all humans.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ronald Dworkin, Taking Rights Seriously, 1977, p. 234. MJ.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The utilitarian argument,……beholden to them.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I advocate that justice requires the recognition of animal rights because it maximizes life.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First is the Uniqueness:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The meat industry is on the rise.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Danielle Nierenberg, Happier Meals: Rethinking the Global Meat Industry, Worldwatch Paper 171, State of the World Library 2005.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Over the last half…..the impacts of these farms.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 2.0-Advantage 1 is Biodiversity]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 1 is Biodiversity</span>**</span>==== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Livestock farming causes massive amounts of biodiversity loss and supercharges climate change impact.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Oxfam Novib, “People, planet and proteins: toward a just and sustainable livestock system”, October 29, 2010, [[http://www.oxfamnovib.nl/Pub/2010-Nr-5-English/2010-Nr-5-English-people-planet-proteins.html]] national organization that produces research reports that governments use to guide action.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Livestock farming causes……. impact on poor communities.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The aff solves, as forests can regenerate along with biodiversity in the absence of livestock production in these regions.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert Goodland[1] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As there is……has been foregone.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, loss of biodiversity causes ecosystem destruction and extinction of all life.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Diner, 94 [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">To accept that………. closer to the abyss.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Vegetarianism AC 2.0-Advantage 2 is Warming]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 2 is Warming</span>**</span>==== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Livestock account for more than 51% of all GHG’s. This excludes transportation emissions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert Goodland[2] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Livestock are already………understood as conservative.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Livestock reduction is the only solution. Renewable energy does not solve. The aff solves by eliminating need for livestock completely.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert Goodland[3] and Jeff Anhang, “Livestock and Climate Change: What if the key actors in climate change are…cows, pigs, and chickens,” World Watch, Novemeber/December 2009</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A key risk factor………………. world food and water crises.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Impact: Runaway global warming leads to extinction.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hsu, Systems Engineering & Risk Management, 10</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Dr. Feng Hsu, “Harnessing the Sun”, Winter 2010, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]], KJ)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The evidence of………….. and energy issues.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Dolphins AC 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Dolphins AC 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I affirm. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The context of the resolution is status quo as the word “requires” is in the present tense.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Oxford Dictionary of Politics defines “animals rights”:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.answers.com/library/Political+Dictionary-cid-2216326]]. Oxford Dictionary of Politics. January 1st 2009. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">“The claim that…….politically enforced rights.” </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore, aff has to defend enforcement of a particular policy by a government. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I value justice, which is defined by Velasquez et. al as:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">“Justice and Fairness” Developed by Manuel Velasquez, Claire Andre, Thomas Shanks, S.J., and Michael J. Meyer Markkula Center for Applied Ethics Santa Clara University //Issues in Ethics// V3 N2 (Spring 1990)[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/practicing/decision/justice.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">In fact, no idea…….politically enforced rights.” </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore, aff has to defend enforcement of a particular policy by a government. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I value justice, which is defined by Velasquez et. al as:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">“Justice and Fairness” Developed by Manuel Velasquez, Claire Andre, Thomas Shanks, S.J., and Michael J. Meyer Markkula Center for Applied Ethics Santa Clara University //Issues in Ethics// V3 N2 (Spring 1990)[[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/practicing/decision/justice.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">In fact, no idea…….equality of all humans.3</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore, justice requires a system that promotes egalitarianism because equal humans are due equal consideration. And, Util is the internal link to egalitarianism. Dworkin</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Ronald Dworkin, Taking Rights Seriously, 1977, p. 234. MJ.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The utilitarian argument…….beholden to them.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">2. Justice is a human construct, developed by philosophers who are ultimately human. Norms of justice seek to evaluate human action. The way humans empirically decide to act is via utilitarianism – maximizing the net good for society. Andre and Velasquez </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Unmasking the Motives of the Good Samaritan. By Claire Andre and Manuel Velasquez [Professors at SCU][[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/iie/v2n1/samaritan.html]] Issue in ethics - Winter 1989.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">You are likely……. their own welfare.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore, it is just to give animals rights if it maximizes the self-interest of humanity.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">3. The nature of state actions means that states must use utilitarian ethics. Robert Goodin writes:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Robert Goodin. Fellow of philosophy at Australian National University, 1990 (The Utilitarian Response)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Whatever its shortcomings……..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">highly attractive proposition.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">4. The competing reflections on what is just and what isn’t in the domain of metaethics mean we ought to prevent extinction to allow these theories to develop and solidify into a coherent guide for action.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Nick Bostrom ‘11, “The Concept of Existential Risk”, 2011, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy [[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">These reflections on…… is the best one.</span>



====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Dolphins AC 1.0-Plan Text 1.0:]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Plan Text 1.0:</span>**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The USFG should ban the use of low-frequency active sonar.</span>




====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Affirmative-Dolphins AC 1.0-Plan Text 2.0:]]**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Plan Text 2.0:</span>**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">In recognition of marine animals' right to life and right not feel pain and suffering, the USFG should ban the use of low-frequency active sonar. I reserve the right to clarify in CX. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I contend that Low Frequency Sonar harms marine ecosystems.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">First, The US Navy uses LFA sonar.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">United States Navy in ‘8, “Navy responds to recent LFA Sonar ruling”, [[http://www.navy.mil/search/display.asp?story_id=34854]]2/7/2008 9:12:00 AM</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The Navy issued…….. in coastal areas.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">LFA kills massive numbers of dolphins and whales.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Michael Russ in ‘1 19 April 2001“Whales, Dolphins and all Marine Life are being threatened” [[http://wellnessgoods.com/navysonar.asp]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">SURTASS LFA Sonar…….. preserving the silence?</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">LFA Sonar causes extinction of marine mammals.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Jean-Michael Cousteau in ‘1, James Taylor, Pierce Brosnan, and Jean-Michael Cousteau, June 2001, Celebrities Reach Out, Former Executive Director of the Cousteau Foundation which is a leading marine conservation organization.[[http://www.songofhome.com/LFAS.htm]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The three of us…… and your concern. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Whales are key to zooplankton control, which is key to preventing human extinction.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Robbins Barstow, PhD, Volunteer Executive Director, Cetacean Society International, SONAR, The Magazine of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society, No. 2, Autumn. 1989 [[http://www.highnorth.no/library/movements/general/be-wh-s2.htm]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Second, whales are…….. whales are unique! </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Dolphins and whales are key to sustenance of the marine ecosystem.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Mundo Azul, [no date given] “Dolphins and Whales”, [[http://www.mundoazul.org/deutsch/dolphins_whales0.htm]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The conservation of whales…….. damage sustainable fisheries. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Loss of marine biodiversity risks extinction of most life on earth</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Craig Indiana University, Robin Kundis, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, p. 264-266</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function………. biosphere with us.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Extinction should weigh as the largest impact under any framework. Extinction comes first. Schell: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Jonathan Schell The Fate of the Earth, p.95[[http://debate.uvm.edu/Library/DebateTheoryLibrary/Roskoski-Infinite%20Risk|__http://debate.uvm.edu/Library/DebateTheoryLibrary/Roskoski-Infinite%20Risk__]]Schell[1] concludes:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Up to now,……. get another chance.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">And, the plan is the only way to solve. The Navy’s evidence about LFA being benign is flawed.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Marsha L. Green, [no date given] “The US Navy's Low Frequency Active Sonar: Cause for Concern”, Ph.D., Ocean Mammal Institute,[[http://www.oceanmammalinst.com/mgpaper.html#lfa9798|http://www.oceanmammalinst.com/mgpaper.html#lfa9798]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Available evidence…….. this damaging technology.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Negative]]Negative</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Negative-Bio-Medical Research DA 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Bio-Medical Research DA 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A. Uniqueness and Brink - The animal rights movement is pushing for an end to animal testing but won’t succeed now</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">(Deborah-, June 12, Wisconsin State Journal, “Local animal rights activists are making strides with new tactics”,[[http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/%20%0darticle_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html|http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/ ]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/%20%0darticle_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html|article_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">After many years of laboring . . . terms of affecting the status quo</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">B. Links and Internal Links: Recognizing animal rights would shatter current ethical systems imperiling testing that’s key to prevent the spread of disease and HIV turning their ethics arguments</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Smith ’10(Wesley J.-, //A Rat Is a Pig Is a Dog Is a Boy: The Human Cost of the Animal Rights Movement//, P. 246-249)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Why seek to breach . . . importance of human life</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">C. Impact HIV risks extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Mutuma Mathiu, Africa News, July 15, 2000</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Aids the vector is humanity . . . so hopelessly in jeopardy</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Negative-Bio-Medical Research DA 2.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Bio-Medical Research DA 2.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A. Uniqueness and Brink - The animal rights movement is pushing for an end to animal testing but won’t succeed now</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">(Deborah-, June 12, Wisconsin State Journal, “Local animal rights activists are making strides with new tactics”,[[http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/%20%0darticle_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html|http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://host.madison.com/wsj/news/local/education/university/%20%0darticle_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html|article_44993188-7594-11df-af7a-001cc4c002e0.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">After many years of laboring . . . terms of affecting the status quo</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">B. Links and Internal Links: Recognizing animal rights would shatter current ethical systems imperiling testing that’s key to prevent the spread of disease and HIV turning their ethics arguments</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Smith ’10(Wesley J.-, //A Rat Is a Pig Is a Dog Is a Boy: The Human Cost of the Animal Rights Movement//, P. 246-249)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Why seek to breach . . . importance of human life</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">C. Impact: New pandemics will inevitably emerge - without vaccines they cause extinction. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Yu. 2009. Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate. Darthmouth Journal of Undergraduate Science. [[http://dujs.darthmouth.edu/spring-2009/hum-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Negative-Animal Rights Economy DA 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Animal Rights Economy DA 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A. Link and Internal Links - A shift towards animal rights would tank the economy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kniaz ’95(JD University of Buffalo, Animal Liberation and the Law: Animals Board the Underground Railroad)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">In the United States, the interests . . . state of the economy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">B. Impact - U.S. Economic Decline Goes Global Leading to Resource Conflicts, Nuclear Wars and Extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Newsflavor ‘9 (April 9, “Will an Economic Collapse Kill You?” [[http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">It may or may not sound likely . . . us in the 21st century</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x.September-October-Negative-Identity Politics K 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Identity Politics K 1.0</span></span>=== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 1**: Granting rights to animals based on shared characteristics with humans reinforces the dichotomy between humans and animals –their appeal to a system of animal rights links </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Unlike Singer, Tom..….are like us.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 2:** Independently, Their appeal to “animal” rights is a violent conceptual move which locks in the human/non-human binary which legitimates our ability to exploit and harm Others of different species.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">David Wood, Philosophy—Vanderbilt, 2004, Animal Philosophy: Essential Readings in Continental Thought, ed. Calarco, Atterton, Singer, p. 132-3</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“The title of…….the abyss remain?</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 3:** Identifying that animals need help from humans, and that they are being oppressed leads to victimization, it just perpetuates the cycle of oppression even longer. It enforces that humans can give and take away rights, and reinforces the animal human dichotomy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">If we have learned …..them equal treatment?</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 4:** Even if rights are protections, it just increases securitization of animals, and as a result increases oppression and shackling of these creatures.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Rights defined as protections..….terms of human rights.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 5:** Moral theories that base rights on commonality with humans give us no guidance in conflicts, which is the purpose of morality and rights theories.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Ironically, the differences…….between soymilk and Kahlúa.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 6:** Specifying animals to give rights to, or theories that base rights on commonality with humans is hypocratic and allows man to act with the hand of god: It entrenches the ideology of infinite violence against the other.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Because of the exclusionary …. must go beyond rights.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 7:** Social Contract Theories require consent as part of a moral agreement, which has also been used to subordinate the other.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Feminists also have……long as they consent.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 8:** Using suffering as a rights determinant, a. again links into Oliver one, and measures rights based on characteristics, but b. puts an infinite responsibility on us, that violates us ontologically.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“But what does consent mean when it becomes a matter of freely participating in one’s …. to the suffering of others? It is a question of response and relationship rather than a question of capacity or identity.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Link 9:** Suffering is not a unique capacity, it just possesses us and makes us weaker. It makes us less unique in that it doesn’t give us rights, it takes more away from use.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Like Bentham-inspired animal rights advocates such as Singer and Regan…. It is the limit of the human in the face of the animal (cf. Wolfe et al. 2008, 25–26).”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Impacts**: First, the human/animal dichotomy the aff entrenches is the nexus point of all oppression – this turns the aff in their own framework </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Philosophical debates over …….the history of Western thought.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">AND, the kritik link turns the aff – their appeal to animal rights ensures continued subjugation of all entities</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“So far, we have considered ……..and humanity remain in place. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Alternative:** Reject the affirmative’s focus on animal rights in favor of an ethic a shared planet – this is the only way to ensure real progress for all entities</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kelly Oliver , (Vanderbilt University W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora Studies, Film Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies), What is Wrong with (Animal) Rights?, The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, New Series Volume 22, Number 3, 2008, pp. 214-224 (Article)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Given that we are …. inhabitants of a shared planet?”</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December]]November-December</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative-Levinas AC 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 19px;">Levinas AC 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">VC: Maximizing understanding of the other</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Ontology</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Moral Agreement</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">3. We cannot know the I without understanding the other. **Wood** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1d1d1d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Allen Wood. Fichte’s Intersubjective I. (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.stanford.edu/~allenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">There the transcendental ...possibleat al</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">4 We cannot use predetermined logic or knowledge to understand the other; doing so actually alienates them, we must first meet them. **Beavers** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Anthony F. Beavers. “Introducing Levinas to Undergraduate Philosophers”. This paper was originally presented as a colloquy paper to the Undergraduate Philosophy Association at the University of Texas at Austin, 1990. [[http://faculty.evansville.edu/tb2/PDFs/UndergradPhil.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">If we can accept ...on the environment.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">5. Knowledge actually objectifies the Other and cannot be used to understand the Other. **Gottlieb** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">ETHICS AND TRAUMA: LEVINAS, FEMINISM, AND DEEP ECOLOGY, Roger S. Gottlieb, Cross Currents Summer 1994, Vol. 44 Issue 2, p222, 19p, [[http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Levinas seeks to ... site for ethics.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Converse theory:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">reciprocity</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Even if, the negative says the individuals should have autonomy, that autonomy is only meaningful if that duty expresses the obligations to other.**Herman** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Barbara Herman, “The Scope Of Moral Requirement,” Philosophy & Public Affairs. (Summer, 2001). Pg. 236</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Forhuman rational agents... our moral deliberations.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Contention 1: Allowing suffering to happen distances ourselves away from the other.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Allowing the Other to suffer distances ourselves from them even further; therefore, we must alleviate this suffering in order to understand the Other. **Hasan** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.meteoritejournal.com/pdfs/3.Levinas.Phenomenon.of.Suffering.pdf]], The Meteorite Journal, student journal of philosophy from the university of Michigan,EMMANUEL LEVINAS AND THE PHENOMENON OF SUFFERING ETHICS, VOICE, REPRESENTATION, Rafeeq Hasan, 1992</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">In “Useless Suffering,”....helplessness, abandonment, and solitude.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Taking action against another’s suffering and suffering from their suffering is the key to understanding the Other. **Hasan** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.meteoritejournal.com/pdfs/3.Levinas.Phenomenon.of.Suffering.pdf]], The Meteorite Journal, student journal of philosophy from the university of Michigan,EMMANUEL LEVINAS AND THE PHENOMENON OF SUFFERING ETHICS, VOICE, REPRESENTATION, Rafeeq Hasan, 1992</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">3. Responsibility towards the Other must come in the form of action, the judge must vote affirmative to show that recognition of the other.**Irwin** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Anderson-Irwin, doctoral candidate in the Graduate Programme in Social and Political Thought @ York University, 2001 [Chris, Beyond Economy, or the Infinite Debt to the Other: Caputo and Derrida on Obligation and Responsibility], No. 3 | June] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">To say this about ... of all others.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Comes before all other args</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Presume Aff:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Number of worlds:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Time skew</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative-Military Division 1AC 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 19px;">Military Division 1AC 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 1 is Theory</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint A is fairness</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1- Textuality - New Oxford American Dictionary</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint B is Education</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Depth</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint C is Weighing</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Education > Fairness</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 2 is Framework</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Value is morality</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Comparative standard is stopping genocide- ICISS, __The Responsibility to Protect: Research, Bibliography, Background__, December 2001.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Obligations for negative … obligated to respect”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Genocide is the worst.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[Claudia, prof of philosophy (Ph.D from Harvard), Senior-Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities, Genocide and Social Death,Hypatia, vol. 18, no. 1, Winter]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Genocide is not…of its termination”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">US intervention in cases of genocide is not inconsistent with US national interest. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Volume 10, Issue 1 </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Spring 2008 “An interest in intervention: A moral argument for Darfur” Mawdlsey</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Scholars and policymakers …American national interest”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Functionality > Normativity</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 3 is the Plan Text: Governments should adopt the stance that they should act to stop genocide when it is occurring in fulfillment of their moral obligation to do so.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 4 is the Inherency: CBS in ‘11. “Ex-Lebanon Leader: Christians Target of Genocide”, January 3, 2011, 11:09 AM, CBS News World, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/01/03/world/main7208414.shtml]], </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Extremist groups are … extremists as well”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 5 is Offense.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">How Americans Can Stop Genocide </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/africa.aspx|Africa]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/defense.aspx|Defense]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/u-s--military.aspx|U.S. Military]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/sudan.aspx|Sudan and South Sudan]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/africa.aspx|Africa]][[http://www.brookings.edu/experts/ohanlonm.aspx|Michael E. O'Hanlon]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, Senior Fellow, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/foreign-policy.aspx|Foreign Policy]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> The New Republic (Online) December 21, 2006. [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2006/1221africa_ohanlon.aspx]], Brookings.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“if the United States … be extremely complicated.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 6 is that presumption goes aff.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative-Military Divisions 1AC 2.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 19px;">Military Divisions 1AC 2.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">I affirm:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Prefer reasonable aff definition – time skew</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Presumption and Permsisbility flows aff – infinite number of worlds neg can win – aff can only win one</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 1 is the Plan Text: The USFG should create a military division dedicated solely to the stopping and prevention of genocide. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 2 is the theory preempts:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Plans with a clear text that take action with a specific actor and indicate who is being helped by the action are theoretically legitimate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint A is Fairness.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Textuality:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Advocacy Shift</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint B is Education:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Depth</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Real World</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint C is Weighing:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Education over Fairness</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint D is the Pre-Empts:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Jurisdiction voters presume that the judge has to vote on the resolution</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. The Wiki and Textuality solve predictability</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 3 is the Framework:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Value = morality – implied by resolution</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Standard is maximizing protection of rights</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Regardless of ethics, all humans are fundamentally morally equal—any ethical theory must acknowledge this fact to maintain a civilized discursive stance towards a discussion of morality. **Arneson:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">WHAT, IF ANYTHING, RENDERS ALL HUMANS MORALLY EQUAL?1 [published in Peter Singer and His Critics, ed. by Dale Jamieson (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)] Richard J. Arneson February, 1998</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">All humans have……..of civilized dialogue.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The only way to respect the equality of all individuals is to ascribe to a consequentialist interpretation of morality. **Rakowski**:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Eric Rakowski, “Taking and Saving Lives,” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5 (Jun., 1993), pp. 1063-1156,[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">This examination of Costa’s……. must kill to do so.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Every moral theory but consequentialism cannot be applied to a government actor. Since the debate is about the aff plan, not the resolution, a utilitarian framework must be used to evaluate the desirability of this proposal. **Woller**:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Moreover, virtually all public…….. methodology of utilitarian ethics.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 4 is the Inherency:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Genocide is not a thing of the past.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**STAND**; [[http://www.standnow.org/learn/conflict]]; Current Website (Accessed 11/10/11)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">* [[http://www.standnow.org/learn/conflicts/central-african-republic|Central African Republic]] * [[http://www.standnow.org/learn/conflicts/darfur|Sudan]] * [[http://www.standnow.org/learn/conflicts/democratic-republic-congo|Democratic Republic of Congo]]…….other conflicts, please [[http://www.genocideintervention.net/contact|contact GI-NET.]]</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 5 is the Impact: Genocide is worse than mass death. Claudia **Card**:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[Claudia, prof of philosophy (Ph.D from Harvard), Senior-Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities, Genocide and Social Death, Hypatia, vol. 18, no. 1, Winter]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Genocide is not simply……….and even of its termination.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solving Genocide is key to soft power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Sonia Cardenas 2011 Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Human Rights Program at Trinity College</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.du.edu/korbel/hrhw/roundtable/2010/panel-b/04-2010/cardenas-2010a.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Second, the GPTF…….. an imperative to act.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Soft power is key to solving all major impacts</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Stanley**, Prof at Georgetown, 07 (Elizabeth Stanley, PhD in Government From Harvard University, Assistant Professor at George Town University, Member of the National Security Advisement Board of Sandia National Laboratories, “International perceptions of U.S. Nuclear Policy” [[http://www.prod.sandia.gov/]] cgi-bin/techlib/access- control.pl/2007/070903.pdf) Waldman</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Such reputation effects……… perceptions of the United States,</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 6 is the Solvency: The plan stops and prevents future genocide. **O’Hanlon** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">How Americans Can Stop Genocide [[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/africa.aspx|Africa]], [[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/defense.aspx|Defense]], [[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/u-s--military.aspx|U.S. Military]], [[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/sudan.aspx|Sudan and South Sudan]], [[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/africa.aspx|Africa]] [[http://www.brookings.edu/experts/ohanlonm.aspx|Michael E. O'Hanlon]], Senior Fellow, [[http://www.brookings.edu/foreign-policy.aspx|Foreign Policy]] The New Republic (Online) December 21, 2006. [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2006/1221africa_ohanlon.aspx]], Brookings.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">And so, if the United……. regular Army or Marine units.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Thus, I affirm.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative-Military Divisions 1AC 3.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 19px;">Military Divisions 1AC 3.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">I affirm:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Prefer reasonable aff definition – time skew</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Presumption and Permsisbility flows aff – infinite number of worlds neg can win – aff can only win one</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 1 is the Plan Text: The USFG should create a military division dedicated solely to the stopping and prevention of genocide. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 2 is the theory preempts:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Plans with a clear text that take action with a specific actor and indicate who is being helped by the action are theoretically legitimate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint A is Fairness.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Textuality:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Advocacy Shift</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint B is Education:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Depth</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint C is Weighing:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Education over Fairness</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint D is the Pre-Empts:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Jurisdiction voters presume that the judge has to vote on the resolution</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. The Wiki and Textuality solve predictability</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 3 is the Framework:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Value = morality – implied by resolution</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Standard is maximizing protection of rights</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Regardless of ethics, all humans are fundamentally morally equal—any ethical theory must acknowledge this fact to maintain a civilized discursive stance towards a discussion of morality. **Arneson:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">WHAT, IF ANYTHING, RENDERS ALL HUMANS MORALLY EQUAL?1 [published in Peter Singer and His Critics, ed. by Dale Jamieson (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)] Richard J. Arneson February, 1998</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">All humans have……..of civilized dialogue.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The only way to respect the equality of all individuals is to ascribe to a consequentialist interpretation of morality. **Rakowski**:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Eric Rakowski, “Taking and Saving Lives,” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5 (Jun., 1993), pp. 1063-1156,[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">This examination of Costa’s……. must kill to do so.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capability to weigh impacts is the function of a standard.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">All ethical theories must guide action – without action we must reject all normative concepts. **Carlson** **writes:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Erik Carlson. “DELIBERATION, FOREKNOWLEDGE, AND MORALITY AS A GUIDE TO ACTION.” Erkenntnis 57: 71–89, 2002.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Without the requirement........</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">our ordinary normative concepts. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Consequentialism guides actions – thus is the best ethical theory to evaluate normative ethics **Dorsey in June** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Consequentialism, Metaphysical Realism, and the Argument from Cluelessness. Dale Dorsey. Department of Philosophy University of Kansas. June 2011. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Insofar as I’m.......efforts. Such is life.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 4 is the Inherency:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Genocide is not a thing of the past.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">STAND; </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.standnow.org/learn/conflict]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">; Current Website (Accessed 11/10/11)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">* </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.standnow.org/learn/conflicts/central-african-republic|Central African Republic]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> * </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.standnow.org/learn/conflicts/darfur|Sudan]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> * </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.standnow.org/learn/conflicts/democratic-republic-congo|Democratic Republic of Congo]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">…….other conflicts, please </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.genocideintervention.net/contact|contact GI-NET.]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 5 is the Impact: Genocide is worse than mass death. Claudia **Card**:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[Claudia, prof of philosophy (Ph.D from Harvard), Senior-Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities, Genocide and Social Death, Hypatia, vol. 18, no. 1, Winter]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Genocide is not simply……….and even of its termination.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solving Genocide is key to soft power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Sonia Cardenas 2011 Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Human Rights Program at Trinity College</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.du.edu/korbel/hrhw/roundtable/2010/panel-b/04-2010/cardenas-2010a.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Second, the GPTF…….. an imperative to act.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Soft power is key to solving all major impacts</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Stanley**, Prof at Georgetown, 07 (Elizabeth Stanley, PhD in Government From Harvard University, Assistant Professor at George Town University, Member of the National Security Advisement Board of Sandia National Laboratories, “International perceptions of U.S. Nuclear Policy” [[http://www.prod.sandia.gov/]] cgi-bin/techlib/access- control.pl/2007/070903.pdf) Waldman</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Such reputation effects……… perceptions of the United States,</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 6 is the Solvency: The plan stops and prevents future genocide. **O’Hanlon** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">How Americans Can Stop Genocide </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/africa.aspx|Africa]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/defense.aspx|Defense]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/u-s--military.aspx|U.S. Military]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/sudan.aspx|Sudan and South Sudan]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/topics/africa.aspx|Africa]] [[http://www.brookings.edu/experts/ohanlonm.aspx|Michael E. O'Hanlon]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, Senior Fellow, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/foreign-policy.aspx|Foreign Policy]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> The New Republic (Online) December 21, 2006. [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2006/1221africa_ohanlon.aspx]], Brookings.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">And so, if the United……. regular Army or Marine units.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">And, Government military action is empirically effective in stopping genocide – Kosovo proves. **Kaplan** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A FAILURE OF PERSPECTIVE: MORAL ASSUMPTIONS AND GENOCIDE, Naomi Kaplan, evaluates: “A PROBLEM FROM HELL”: AMERICA AND THE AGE OF GENOCIDE. By Samantha </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #008000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.bc.edu/dam/files/schools/law/lawreviews/journals/bctwj/23_2/05_TXT.htm|Power]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">. New York: Basic Books 2002. Pp. 592.,[[http://www.bc.edu/dam/files/schools/law/lawreviews/journals/bctwj/23_2/05_TXT.htm]], </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">From the perspective.......to prevent a third.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Thus, I affirm.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative-Theory 1AC 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 19px;">Theory 1AC 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observartion 1 is Theory</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint A is fairness</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Textuality - According to the New Oxford American Dictionary, an individual: “a distinctive or original person,” and a government is “the group of persons in office at a particular time.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Advocacy Shift</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint B is Education</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Depth</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Real-World</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint C is Weighing</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Scope of F</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Education unique to debate</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">3. Education prerequisite to activity</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Subpoint D is Pre-Empts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Plans okay with disclosure</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Jurisdiction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">3. Textuality sufficient.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">4. Plan gives ground</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 2 is Framework</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Value is morality- Nielsen – philosophy prof, Calgary – 93Kai Nielsen, Professor of Philosophy, University of Calgary, Absolutism and Its Consequentialist Critics, ed. Joram Graf Haber, 1993, p. 170-2 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“The consequentialist is… a moral evasion” </span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Comparative standard is stopping genocide- ICISS, __The Responsibility to Protect: Research, Bibliography, Background__, December 2001.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Obligations for negative … obligated to respect”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 3 is the Plan Text: Governments should adopt the stance that they should act to stop genocide when it is occurring. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 4 is the Inherency: CBS in ‘11. “Ex-Lebanon Leader: Christians Target of Genocide”, January 3, 2011, 11:09 AM, CBS News World, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/01/03/world/main7208414.shtml]], </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Extremist groups are … extremists as well”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 5 is offense.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A FAILURE OF PERSPECTIVE: MORAL ASSUMPTIONS AND GENOCIDE, Naomi Kaplan, evaluates: “A PROBLEM FROM HELL”: AMERICA AND THE AGE OF GENOCIDE. By Samantha </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #008000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.bc.edu/dam/files/schools/law/lawreviews/journals/bctwj/23_2/05_TXT.htm|Power]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">. New York: Basic Books 2002. Pp. 592.,[[http://www.bc.edu/dam/files/schools/law/lawreviews/journals/bctwj/23_2/05_TXT.htm]], </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“From the perspective…prevent a third”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Observation 6 is that the presumption goes aff.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Affirmative-Individuals 1AC 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17px;">Individuals 1AC 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">All definitions come from the New Oxford American Dictionary</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Value is morality- Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“The term morality … code of conduct”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Erik Carlson. “DELIBERATION, FOREKNOWLEDGE, AND MORALITY AS A GUIDE TO ACTION.” Erkenntnis 57: 71–89, 2002. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Without the requirement ,,, ordinary normative concepts” </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The standard is taking an active approach to stop genocide. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">This is an ethical obligation we must embrace – </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">ICISS, The Responsibility to Protect: Research, Bibliography, Background, December 2001.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Obligations for negative … ensuing moral responsibility”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Genocide should weigh as the largest impact under any framework</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[Claudia, prof of philosophy (Ph.D from Harvard), Senior-Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities, Genocide and Social Death,Hypatia, vol. 18, no. 1, Winter]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Genocide is not … concept of genocide.” </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Outcomes matter regardless of intention</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Nielsen – philosophy prof, Calgary – 93Kai Nielsen, Professor of Philosophy, University of Calgary, Absolutism and Its Consequentialist Critics, ed. Joram Graf Haber, 1993, p. 170-2 </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“The consequentialist is ..constitute a moral evasion”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Individuals make a difference in the fight against genocide</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kathleen Renee Cronin-Furman; graduate of Columbia Law School. She is one of the editors of the blog Wronging Rights; Article and Essay: 60 Years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Towards an Individual Responsibility to Protect; American University International Law Review; 2010. lexis</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“ some of the … recognition and observance.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Genocide is something that we perpetuate</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Jayan Nayar, Law Student at the University of Warwick, Re-Framing International Law for the 21st Century: Orders of Inhumanity, 9 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems 599, Fall 1999</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“ my questioning is … dare not speak”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Lastly, presumption goes aff.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative]]Negative</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-Payroll Tax Cut Extension PTX DA 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Payroll Tax Cut Extension PTX DA 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A: Uniqueness and Brink: The payroll tax cut extension will pass in the status quo – the Dems and GOP will reach a compromise **AP Yesterday**</span>

<span class="StyleDate" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">AP – 12/1/</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">11, AP Sources: House GOP bill renews jobless benefit, USA Today, [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/story/2011-12-01/house-gop-unemployment-benefits/51545746/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">WASHINGTON (AP) – </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">House Republicans are.......negotiations on a compromise.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">B: Link: The aff plan increasing foreign aid costs, which costs massive amounts of political capital **Lancester**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">CAROL </span><span class="StyleDate" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">LANCASTER</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> – vising fellow, Center for Global Development – </span><span class="StyleDate" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2008</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">, GEORGE BUSH’S FOREIGN AID, Chapter 2: The Changing Landscape of U.S. Foreign Aid, [[http://www.cgdev.org/doc/books/George_Bush_foreign_aid/Lancaster_Chapter%202.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">No matter how much......</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">in </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">any major federal program.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Obama’s political capital is key to passage **Longbottom**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Longbottom, 10/13 (Wil, 10/13/2011, “'I won't take no for an answer on jobs bill': Defiant Obama vows to continue despite Senate defeat,”__<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2048604/Obama-I-wont-answer-Jobs-bill.html?ito=feeds-newsxml]]</span>)__</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">President Barack Obama has...........bill, according to SBS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Failure to extend the tax cut will derail the economy **Temple-West** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Temple-West, 10/6 (Patrick, 10/6/2011, Reuters News, “Payroll tax cut needed to avoid recession: Zandi,” Factiva)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">(Reuters) - Failure to extend........soon</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">,"</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> Casey told Reuters.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Economic collapse causes global nuclear war **Mead** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Mead 09 Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, Only Makes You Stronger, The New Republic,[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2|www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The greatest dangerboth..............we may stillhave to fight</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Economic Collapse causes poverty and disease- makes war inevitable **Klare**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Klare,Michael T. Alternet: Foreign Policy in Focus: Economy “Will our economic collapse cause the death of millions abroad?” March 20, 2009 < [[http://www.alternet.org/economy/132523/will_our_economic_collapse_cause_the_death_of_millions_abroad/]]></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The likely result: A looming........affecting the developing world.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-Compassion Fatigue Kritik 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 17.6px;">Compassion Fatigue Kritik 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Link 1: Whenever we confront suffering, we are increasingly numb to the suffering of others.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Moeller, //Compassion Fatigue,// 1999, p. 9-13</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"The first time... of news images."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Link 2: The guiltier we feel, the less the need to take real action since we figure that confessions are sufficient.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Bruckner [1], //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"What they aim... no longer responsible."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Impact 1: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The more we are confronted with suffering psychoanalytically, we begin to feel numb to bigger things.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Paul Slovic, //Judgement and Decision Making,// 2007, p. 79-95</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"Our cognitive and... and saving 88."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Impact 2: Representing pain does nothing productive; we always reproduce it in order to keep the comforting images coming, we will act.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Bruckner [2], //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"Our own comfort... to be catastrophe."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Impact 3: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Showing compassion for the oppressed instrumentalizes their suffering. The AC destroys moral agency and uses them for a means.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Beer, //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"it is the... are promptly forgotten."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Alternative: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Reject the Aff's representations of suffering **(and/or)** big impacts. Our alternative is not inconsistent with the call for a moral obligation but instead is a kritik of the affirmative representations. The NC solves for the AC without the harms in the language implications the AC's strategy brings about. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Framework: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Questions of representations come first – the language we use and the framing of issues is the most important question as it informs all our actions</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Doty, //Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representation in North-South Relations//, 1996</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"Representation is an... series of dichotomies"</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-Compassion Fatigue Kritik 2.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Compassion Fatigue Kritik 2.0</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Link 1: Whenever we confront suffering, we are increasingly numb to the suffering of others.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Moeller, //Compassion Fatigue,// 1999, p. 9-13</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"The first time... of news images."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Link 2: The guiltier we feel, the less the need to take real action since we figure that confessions are sufficient.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Bruckner [1], //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"What they aim... no longer responsible."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Impact 1: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The more we are confronted with suffering psychoanalytically, we begin to feel numb to bigger things.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Paul Slovic, //Judgement and Decision Making,// 2007, p. 79-95</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"Our cognitive and... and saving 88."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Impact 2: Representing pain does nothing productive; we always reproduce it in order to keep the comforting images coming, we will act.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Bruckner [2], //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"Our own comfort... to be catastrophe."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Impact 3: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Showing compassion for the oppressed instrumentalizes their suffering. The AC destroys moral agency and uses them for a means.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Beer, //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"it is the... are promptly forgotten."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Alternative: Reject the Aff's call for an obligation to those in need because they advocate . Not only are the harms prolonged in the AC's world, but they cause us to perpetuate the problem to satisfy our own guilt to a point where we make the problem worse by denying moral agency to them. Even if you don't buy that, the AC causes compassion fatigue which leads to desensitization of bigger issues. The impacts turn the AC on its own framework because they THINK they're solving one issue, but in reality, the action of assisting those in need is bad in the long run. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Framework:Questions of representations come first – the language we use and the framing of issues is the most important question as it informs all our actions</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Doty, //Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representation in North-South Relations//, 1996</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"Representation is an... series of dichotomies"</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-Nietzsche K 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Nietzsche K 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Section 1 is the Link:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Their thesis is that morality can infuse action even without proof of a transcendental placeholder from which it is derived. But it is precisely in such a condition, when the telos of the good has vanished and the yearning for it remains, that morality transforms into its cheap opposite---a moralizing vengeance serving only as a hysterical mask for the vertigo of God’s vacuum. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Wendy Brown, Political Theory @ UC Berkeley, 2k1 (Politics Out of History. P 28-29</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"but the loss...postmodernism, or theory"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Their affirmative responds to the crisis of nihilism via the strategy of the Last Man—their attempt to abolish suffering from the world through identifying a moral obligation to assist people in need results in absolute leveling of difference the culmination of which is a suicidal nihilism in which life becomes truly meaningless as we passively await our own deaths.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">David Owen, Social Science—University of Southampton, and Aaron Ridley, Philosophy—University of Southampton, 2000.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Why Nietzsche Still? Reflections on Drama, Culture, and Politics, ed. Alan d. Schrift, p. 149-54</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"The modern condition...Dionsysus, not Apollo"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The vision of morality which grounds the 1AC is based on tyrannical view of human nature which ensures the world can only appear to us impure—means life can never be worth living in their framework. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Martin Drenthen, Philosophy and Science StudiesRadboud University of Nijmegen//,// 2005</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“Wildness as a Critical Border Concept: Nietzsche and the Debate on Wilderness Restoration,” Environmental Values, Volume 14, Number 3, August 2005 , pp. 317-337(21)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"Nietzsche tries to give...nature around us"</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Section 2 is the Impact:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Focusing on suffering of the weak devalues life – we need to affirm existence. Tevenar:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Tevenar 5 (Gurdren von, Prof of Philosophy @ Birkbeck University, “Nietzsche’s Objections to Pity and Compassion,”[[http://www.bbk.ac.uk/phil/staff/academics/gemes-work/GurdrenvonTevenar18Oct05]]) Zanezor</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"Yet before we...fail to affirm"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Section 3 is the Alternative: Reject the aff in favor of embracing amor fati. Say yes to the world in its totality.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">David Owen**,** Social Science—University of Southhampton, 1995 Nietzsche, Politics & Modernity, p. 112-5"What kind of...experience amor fati"</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Section 4 is the Underview:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Suffering is inevitable. The perm is impossible.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; text-align: left;">Wrisley No Date (George, Prof of Philosophy @ U Iowa, “What Should Our Attitude Towards Suffering Be,” Nietzsche and Suffeirng- A Choice of Attitudes and Ideals,[[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=site%3Ageorgewrisley.com+What+Should+Our+Attitude+Towards+Suffering+Be&aq=f&oq=&aqi]]=) Zanezor</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; text-align: left;">"We have now...pit of snakes"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Section 5 is the Framework:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. The focus of debate is not about living and dying; it is a question of ontology—what it means to be alive.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Ontology first.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Campbell and Shapiro 96 eds., //Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics// (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1999) pg. 96</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"As Heidegger-himself...modern political thought"</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-Skep NC 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Skep NC 1.0</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Converse burden theory.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Individuals can only have moral obligations if they have free will. Humans are not morally responsible for their actions. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">GALEN STRAWSON, THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF MORAL RESPONSIBILITY' (Received 15 September1993) Philosophical Studies 75: 5-24, 1994.[1]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">It is undeniable…for their actions.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-The Other Other NC 2.0]]The Other Other NC 2.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">I negate. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">I value morality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The necessary and sufficient standard is maintaining morality as a guide for action. Prefer this standard for 3 reasons:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">First, according to the Merriam-Webster, obligations are </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“something by [[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/which|which]] a person is bound or obliged to do”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Thus, the word “obligation” itself implies that the individuals in question must act upon their moral obligation. This means that definitionally morality serves as a guide to action. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Second, all ethical theories must guide action – without action we must reject all normative concepts. Carlson writes:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Erik Carlson. “DELIBERATION, FOREKNOWLEDGE, AND MORALITY AS A GUIDE TO ACTION.” Erkenntnis 57: 71–89, 2002. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Without the requirement……. price to pay.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Third, if morality does not serve as a guide to action, then it destroys the value of individual identity and autonomy. Bob Corbett writes: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">“First of all the consequence……..needs of others.”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Thus, infinite obligations prevent individuals from forming and having an identity since the obligations and duties of the individual are never ending. This is self-defeating however because the purpose of morality is to allow individuals to pursue their own ends. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The affirmative burden is to show that affirming maintains morality's action guiding function while the negative burden is to show that affirming does not. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">I contend that affirming destroys morality's action guiding function. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">First, since there is a never-ending amount of suffering in the world, in the process of aiding some people in need, people ignore and violate their obligations to other people in need. Derrida [1] argues:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Jacques Derrida. //The Gift of Death. T//ranslated by David Wills. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1995. P. 68.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">"As a result, the…… instant, to all others." </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Derrida 2 continues:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">But I am sacrificing……. second of every day.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0000cc; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">[[http://www.yorku.ca/jspot/3/candersonirwin.htm#note17|17]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The aff makes morality unable to guide action in 3 ways:</span>
# <span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">It strips moral obligations of their moral force by creating an infinite number of obligations.</span></span>
# <span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">It creates conflicts between obligations.</span></span>
# <span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">It makes all routine actions immoral, since individuals are always obligated to replace their everyday tasks with a task designed to help people in need. James Fishkin writes:</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">James S. Fishkin (Chair in International Communication, Professor of Communication and Political Science, Stanford University) //The Limits of Obligation//, 1982, p. 170</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">This argument also has….. overwhelming moral demands.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Thus, affirming destroys moral agency, and makes morality unable to guide action.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-Development DA 1.0]]Development DA 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A: Link: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Nations with a moral obligation to help poorer nations perpetuate development. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Slaughter, Joseph. R, 2007, Human Rights, Inc.: The World Novel, Narrative Form, and International Law, pg. 266, Associate Professor of English and Comparative Literature at Colombia University.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The addition of……and developmental potential. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">B: Impacts: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Development causes imperialism. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Developmental institutions are imperialist. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Escobar [1], Arturo, 1995, Encountering Development: The Making and Unmaking of the Third World, Pg. 162-163, Kenan Distinguished Professor in the Department of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]] at the University of North Carolina</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Finally, the impact of….. and renews itself. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Imperialism causes global suffering.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Parenti, Michael, 1995, Against Empire, Yale PhD in political science. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Imperialism has created……… a pursuit of evil.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Development causes dehumanization. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Representations of those in need dehumanize them.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Escobar [2], Arturo, 1995, Encountering Development: The Making and Unmaking of the Third World, Pg. 103, Kenan Distinguished Professor in the Department of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]] at the University of North Carolina</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">To be blunt, one…… almost impossible task. </span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#November-December-Negative-Malthus DA 1.0]]Malthus DA 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">A: Uniqueness and Brink: Population overshoot is inevitable Brown 08 </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Brown- President, Earth Policy Institute- ‘8. Lester, Earth Policy Institute is a nonprofit, interdisciplinary research organization, Plan B 3.0:  Mobilizing to Save Civilization p. 13</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">While the economy is growing…….. may change their min.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">B: Link: The aff reduces AIDS, but AIDS lowers fertility rates.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Econ- AIDS Research Division, University of Natal- ‘3</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Alan, New variant famine: AIDS and food crisis in southern Africa, Science Direct</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">HIV/AIDS has a great….., are more plentiful.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">C: Impacts:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">1. Increase in fertility rates risks population collapses and extinction – turns case </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Brander- Prof, U of British Columbia-‘7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">James, Viewpoint: Sustainability: Malthus revisited?, Science Direct</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Although the CIA…………..projected, population levels.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">2. Overpopulation Risks intensified aids threat – turns case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Kates- Prof, Ithaca College- ‘4</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Carol, Reproductive Liberty and Overpopulation, [[http://www.ithaca.edu/hs/philrel/replib.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Sub-Saharan Africa……. and political dynamics (CIA 2000). </span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February]]January-February</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-Reject Patriarchy 1AC 1.0]]Reject Patriarchy 1AC 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I value </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">morality</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Humans are inherently morally equal. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Arneson</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WHAT, IF ANYTHING, RENDERS ALL HUMANS MORALLY EQUAL?1 [published in Peter Singer and His Critics, ed. by Dale Jamieson (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)] Richard J. Arneson February, 1998</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All humans have……. of civilized dialogue.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">opposing patriarchy.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Patriarchy is the root cause of oppression. Any ethical system that does not reject patriarchy condones oppression. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Witoszek & Brennan:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Witoszek & Brennan ’99, [Nina, Andrew, Philosophical dialogues: Arne Naess and the progress of ecophilosophy, p. 257]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So my response…….. oppression and domination.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Patriarchy is a destructive ideology that ends in extinction. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spretnak</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spretnak in 1989 [ MA in English from Berkely] Source: Charlene, Exposing Nuclear Phallacies, Editor, Diana EH Russell, Page: 60, Title: : Charlene, Exposing Nuclear Phallacies, CD)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Women and men can……… preserving life on Earth.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Ethical theories that fail to acknowledge the prevalence of patriarchy are subject to flawed epistemology. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stanley and Wise:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Liz Stanley and Sue Wise. Breaking Out Again: Feminist Ontology and Epistemology. New Edition. Routledge publisher, 2002.‘FEMINIST METHOD’ AND FEMINIST EPISTEMOLOGY</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Is there a distinct feminist……. this in varied ways.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4. Traditional ethics must be abandoned in the face of extinction in order to ensure that deliberation over the alternatives can continue.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bostrom</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nick Bostrom ‘11, “The Concept of Existential Risk”, 2011, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy[[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">These reflections on moral….. of getting there (but rather, if possible, improved).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I contend that ruling out deadly force as an option for the abused of repeated domestic violence entrenches patriarchy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nonviolence encourages and fuels patriarchy. This is true of pacifist rejection of any form of violence. Legitimating deadly force, a form of violence, would begin gender liberation. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gelderloos</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gelderloos ‘7, [Peter, How Nonviolence Protects the State, attended James Madison University, p. 66-8]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">From another angle,…….. in the short term.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nonviolence preserves the essence of patriarchy in any movement to resist. Furthermore, pacifist movements thrive on conditions that avoid self-criticism, which is key to removing patriarchal undertones in resistance movements. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gelderloos 2:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aside from protecting……. transphobia, or sexual abuse?</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Every rejection of patriarchy matters. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bell Hooks:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Will To Change: Men, Masculinity, and Love. 2004. Bell Hooks. Simon and Schuster. Social Science 208 pages.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">To end patriarchy…… all must change.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-Reject Patriarchy 1AC 2.0]]Reject Patriarchy 1AC 2.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I affirm, Resolved: It is morally permissible for victims to use deadly force as a deliberate response to repeated domestic violence.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I value morality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Humans are inherently morally equal and thus, one cannot take power over another regardless of age, gender, race, etc.:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What, If Anything, Renders All Humans Morally Equal. [published in Peter Singer and His Critics, ed. by Dale Jamieson (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)] Richard J. Arneson February, 1998</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All humans have……. of civilized dialogue.2</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus the standard is opposing patriarchy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Most forms of domestic violence happen between partners and are especially directed towards women:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NIJ (National Institute of Justice) ’07 [[http://www.nij.gov/topics/crime/intimate-partner-violence/extent.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Approximately 1.3 million……intimate partner annually.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, in this round, the aff will argue that women are allowed to use deadly force as a deliberate response to repeated domestic violence from their husbands where as the neg will argue that women should not be allowed to use deadly force. The side which creates a better world will win the debate.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1: Economic issues</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Subpoint A: Domestic violence increases Healthcare, taxes</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steven Lippmann, MD 2010[[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2848468/| http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2848468/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“However, having a firearm…. system expenses, and taxes.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Subpoint B: With increased health care costs and taxes, other patients will not be able to afford health care or health insurance for more serious issues and death rates will increase.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Andrew P. Wilper, MD, et all. ‘09[[http://www.pnhp.org/excessdeaths/health-insurance-and-mortality-in-US-adults.pdf| http://www.pnhp.org/excessdeaths/health-insurance-and-mortality-in-US-adults.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Health insurance facilitates….. between uninsurance and death.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Subpoint C: An increase in Healthcare costs is coupled with a decrease in the economy as well as an increase in death</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neeraj Sood, Arkadipta Ghosh, and Jose J. Escarse ’07 [[http://aspe.hhs.gov/health/reports/08/healthcarecost/report.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“There is some……employee cost sharing.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2: Deadly force solves Patriarchy</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Subpoint A: Deadly force is permissible by the law in retaliation to save oneself</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">California Penal Code Section 197. [[http://law.onecle.com/california/penal/197.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Homicide is also……preserving the peace. ”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Subpoint B:</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Patriarchy can solely be solved through violence</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The argument that nonviolence can stop oppression assumes that we live in a society free of violent tendencies. The patriarchal tendencies of society can only stopped with violence.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gelderloos ‘7, [Peter, How Nonviolence Protects the State, attended James Madison University, p. 63-4]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“With gender, as….. and military forces.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus I affirm.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-Reject Patriarchy 1AC 3.0]]Reject Patriarchy 1AC 3.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I value </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">morality</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Humans are inherently morally equal. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Arneson</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WHAT, IF ANYTHING, RENDERS ALL HUMANS MORALLY EQUAL?1 [published in Peter Singer and His Critics, ed. by Dale Jamieson (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)] Richard J. Arneson February, 1998</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All humans have……. of civilized dialogue.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">opposing patriarchy.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Patriarchy is the root cause of oppression. Any ethical system that does not reject patriarchy condones oppression. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Witoszek & Brennan:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Witoszek & Brennan ’99, [Nina, Andrew, Philosophical dialogues: Arne Naess and the progress of ecophilosophy, p. 257]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So my response…….. oppression and domination.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Patriarchy is a destructive ideology that ends in extinction. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spretnak</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spretnak in 1989 [ MA in English from Berkely] Source: Charlene, Exposing Nuclear Phallacies, Editor, Diana EH Russell, Page: 60, Title: : Charlene, Exposing Nuclear Phallacies, CD)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Women and men can……… preserving life on Earth.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Philosophy seeks to tame us by removing context and rendering real suffering invisible. This logic fuels domination </span><span class="verdana" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nunn** explains:</span>
<span class="verdana" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kenneth Nunn. “Law as a Eurocentric Enterprise”. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Spring, 1997). 15 Law & Inequality 323</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Abstraction, closely related...of the abstract</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4. Traditional ethics must be abandoned in the face of extinction in order to ensure that deliberation over the alternatives can continue.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bostrom</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nick Bostrom ‘11, “The Concept of Existential Risk”, 2011, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy[[http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">These reflections on moral….. of getting there (but rather, if possible, improved).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I contend that ruling out deadly force as an option for the abused of repeated domestic violence entrenches patriarchy.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nonviolence encourages and fuels patriarchy. This is true of pacifist rejection of any form of violence. Legitimating deadly force, a form of violence, would begin gender liberation. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gelderloos</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gelderloos ‘7, [Peter, How Nonviolence Protects the State, attended James Madison University, p. 66-8]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">From another angle,…….. in the short term.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nonviolence preserves the essence of patriarchy in any movement to resist. Furthermore, pacifist movements thrive on conditions that avoid self-criticism, which is key to removing patriarchal undertones in resistance movements. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gelderloos 2:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aside from protecting……. transphobia, or sexual abuse?</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Every rejection of patriarchy matters. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bell Hooks:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Will To Change: Men, Masculinity, and Love. 2004. Bell Hooks. Simon and Schuster. Social Science 208 pages.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">To end patriarchy…… all must change.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-State of the Harker 1AC 1.0]]State of the Harker 1AC 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I value </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">morality</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 1 is the Metaethic:</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. All facts must be reducible to scientific principles. This is because the world is causally closed under natural facts. This means that moral considerations must be based in physical facts about our mental states. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Papineau:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Papineau, “Naturalism,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2007.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the middle of……. those physical antecedents.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Epistemologically, there must be some neurological system for determining what moral experiences are retained. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hauser</span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hauser, Marc Moral Minds: The Nature of Right and Wrong 2006</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What I hope……. our local culture.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 2 is the ethic:</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Consequentialism is the only theory that fulfills this metaethic.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Brain studies prove that humans’ most modern sense of morality is hardwired utilitarian. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lucretius</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lucretius, “Does Neuroscience Refute Ethics,” August 24, 2005, Ludwig von Mises Institute. (Citation for Greene et al. study: “The Neural Bases of Cognitive Conflict and Control in Moral Judgment,” Neuron, Vol. 44, 389-400, Oct. 14, 2004, Joshua D. Greene,1,2,* Leigh E. Nystrom,1,2Andrew D. Engell,1,2John M. Darley,1and Jonathan D. Cohen1,2 1Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Center for the Study of Brain, Princeton University)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So far, so good. Regardless…….. must be recruited.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 3 is Justification:</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This reasoning about the causality of morality is justified:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Causal closure demands that our mental states, and hence moral beliefs, must be rooted in physical facts about us.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. You can’t assume things without experiencing them.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 4 is the standard:</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is net benefits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Other moral theories require agents with a SPECIFICALLY situated action. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pettit:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Philip Pettit [Prof. Philosophy, Princeton]. “Non-Consequentialism And Political Philosophy.” Enfoques, año/vol. XVIII, número 1-2. PP. 27-49 (2006)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In my earlier characterization…… by those principles.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 5 is the Advantages:</span>__

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-State of the Harker 1AC 1.0-Advantage 1 is State Authority 1.0]]Advantage 1 is State Authority 1.0</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff defends the moral permissibility of the abused using deadly force against the abuser. This categorizes the abuser as a vigilante taking the law into his or her own hands – increasing vigilante justice. Ayyildiz</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ayyildiz (Elisabeth Ayyildiz. “When Battered Women’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman As Vigilante.” Journal of Gender and the Law, Vol. 4:141, Fall 1995. [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 1995; B., University of Virginia, 1991.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, by killing her…….. moral order herself.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, Internal links: Engaging in violence out of the law is the only way to check governmental power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Culbertson, William C. Vigilantism: Political History of Private Power in America. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1990. P. 20-21</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A society of laws……. abuses endured or disputed.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vigilantism prevents distant government control over the populous.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Franklin E. Zimring, The Contradictions of American Capital Punishment, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003, pp 109.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For those who are…… is a just one.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, the Impact: Unchecked government power threatens the survival of humanity and causes genocide. Foucault writes</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Michael Foucault. The History of Sexuality. Volume 1: The Introduction: Chapter 5. 1978. Pantheon Books.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Since the classical……. phenomena of population.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, this is empirically verified in Nigeria, vigilantism is the only way to check the government’s power.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith, Daniel Jordan. A Culture of Corruption: Everyday Deception and Popular Discontent in Nigeria. 2007. Princeton University Press. p. 167-168</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But vigilantism is……. politics and state institutions.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-State of the Harker 1AC 1.0-Advantage 2 is Deterrence 1.0]]Advantage 2 is Deterrence 1.0</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deadly forces deters further domestic abuse. Southwick Furthers</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lawrence Southwick, Jr.; GUNS AND JUSTIFIABLE HOMICIDE: DETERRENCE AND DEFENSE; Saint Louis University Public Law Review; 1999 lexis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"From an initial...murders per year"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clarke provides the warrants specific to domestic abuse</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D.A. Clarke; “Justice is a Woman With a Sword”; [[http://www.nostatusquo.com/ACLU/Porn/Justice.html]]; 1991</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"If the risk...advantages all around"</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-State of the Harker 1AC 1.0-Advantage 2 is Deterrence 2.0]]Advantage 2 is Deterrence 2.0</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deliberate deadly force as a response to repeated domestic violence is classified as a justifiable homicide legally because the abused are suffering from PTSD. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stark</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Evan; Associate Professor, Graduate Department of Public Administration and School of Social Work, Rutgers University; SYMPOSIUM ON RECONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN BY INTIMATE PARTNERS: CRITICAL ISSUES: RE-PRESENTING WOMAN BATTERING: FROM BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME TO COERCIVE CONTROL; Albany Law Review; Spring 1995; 58 Alb. L. Rev. 973]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Among the most important legal……….. restitution for personal injury and disability.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff defends the moral permissibility of the abused using deadly force against the abuser. This categorizes the abuser as a vigilante taking the law into his or her own hands – increasing vigilante justice. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ayyildiz</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ayyildiz (Elisabeth Ayyildiz. “When Battered Women’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman As Vigilante.” Journal of Gender and the Law, Vol. 4:141, Fall 1995. [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 1995; B., University of Virginia, 1991.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, by killing her…….. moral order herself.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deadly forces deters further domestic abuse. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Southwick</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lawrence Southwick, Jr.; GUNS AND JUSTIFIABLE HOMICIDE: DETERRENCE AND DEFENSE; Saint Louis University Public Law Review; 1999 lexis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"From an initial...murders per year"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The use of deadly force deters future abuse. Moreover, allowing the abused to retaliate using deadly force will RESULT in the state providing alternatives. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zipursky</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zipursky, Benjamin C. Self-Defense and Relations of Domination: Moral and Legal Perspectives on Battered Women who Kill: Self Defense, Domination, and the Social Contract. University of Pittsburgh Law Review. 1996.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A similar argument applies….enhance women's security.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leaving the abuser causes more harm </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Koons</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Judith E. Koons . [Associate Professor at Barry University]. “GUNSMOKE AND LEGAL MIRRORS: WOMEN SURVIVING INTIMATE BATTERY AND DEADLY LEGAL FORCE DOCTRINES.” Journal of Law and Policy. 2006.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The unworkability of…….than married women. [[http://puffin.harker.org:2061/us/lnlib/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1327545417677&returnToKey=20_T13772348216&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.478085.56440526975#n151|n151]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Terminal Impact: Domestic violence is a system that renders gender violence both private and invisible because of the interpersonal nature of the attacks. Domestic violence is a private front for structural violence. Reducing domestic violence would therefore destabilize gender structures that enable genocide. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chowdhur</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">y</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rumna Chowdhury, J.D. Univ. of Minnesota, 2002 (Kadic v. Karadzic – Rape as a Crime Against Women as a Class, 20 Laq & Ineq. J. 91)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How the Dichotomy Operates……., and terrifying body-memories.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Domestic violence leads to a spirit injury worse than death. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wing</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WING 1997 – PROF LAW U IOWA CONCEPTUALIZING VIOLENCE, 60 ALB. L. REV. 943</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The multiple effect of …… an individual or group basis.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative-Harker's Framework Choice (AFC) 1.0]]Harker's Framework Choice (AFC) 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Interpretation: The standard that the affirmative proposes in the AC must be the mechanism by which the substantive debate in the round is adjudicated as long as that standard provides a fair division of ground.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Or </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A: Interpretation: The framework that the affirmative proposes in the AC must be the mechanism by which the substantive debate in the round is adjudicated as long as that framework provides a fair division of ground.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Violation: The violation is pre-emptive and is triggered by them challenging this interpretation through denying aff framework choice. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. Standards:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Time skew. The NC is 7 minutes long, meaning that the neg has a huge time advantage in the round since I only have 4 minutes to respond, giving the neg close to a 2 to 1 advantage. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AFC solves because I don’t have to spend time in my shorter speeches dealing with the framework debate. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Strategy Skew: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the little a is Aff framework choice solves strategy skew stemming from NC’s with different frameworks. Negatives can easily use their long NC to exclude the AC framework, thereby mooting 6 minutes of my AC. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the little b is that the NC can adapt to the AC but the AC cannot adapt to the NC. The negative has an easier time winning the round structurally because it can maximize the use of it’s speaking time by forcing the 1AR to cover multiple layers. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The little c is AFC is the reciprocal counterpart to the negative right to read counterplans and kritiks. In policy the affirmative gets to construct the plan text in ways that specifically position the aff against counterplans and kritiks. LD topics don’t give the aff direct access to plans so the only way to give the aff similar strategic positioning is AFC.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D. Voter: Fairness is important. </span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative]]Negative</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Permissibility Off 1.0]]Permissibility Off 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There is a distinction between actions that are morally permissible, prohibited, encouraged, and required. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elliot explains,</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ethics in the First Person: A Guide to Teaching and Learning Practical Ethics (2007), Deni Elliot, [professor and Eleanor Poynter Jamison Chair in Media Ethics and Press Policy, Graduate Program Director, Deni Elliott specializes in practical ethics. In addition to her writings in media ethics, she has published work relating to ethical issues and animals, government, higher education, philanthropy, research and teaching. Her recent books include Ethical Challenges: Building Your Ethics Toolkit, published through Authorhouse, The Kindness of Strangers, Philanthropy in Higher Education and Ethics in the First Person, A Guide to Teaching and Learning Practical Ethics, both published by Rowman & Littlefield. Dr. Elliott also works as the Ethics Officer for the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. She received an undergraduate degree in communication with a minor in journalism from the University of Maryland, a M.A. in philosophy from Wayne State University and an interdisciplinary doctoral degree from Harvard University with a focus in teaching ethics.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A moral system……..are morally encouraged.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morally permitted is when an action is morally indifferent, i.e. has no morally relevant implications. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Babic confirms,</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morality and Our Time (1998) Jovan Babic, [Professor of Ethics of Belgrade University, Visiting International Scholar and Professor of Philosophy]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tolerance is the……… of moral evaluation (in oneself).</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Gandhi's My Homeboy NC 1.0]]Gandhi's My Homeboy NC 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I negate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The neg burden is to show that it is morally impermissible for victims of repeated domestic abuse to use deliberate deadly force.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All definitions are from Legal-Dictionary hosted by The Free Dictionary.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Value is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morality</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> as implied by the resolution.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Regardless of the moral system we employ, it must reject all violence. There are 3 warrants:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, violence is immoral because it destroys agency. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Allen</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Comparitive Philosophy and Religion in Times of Terror.” Douglas Allen, 2006</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gandhi’s approach is…… and work toward reconciliation.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, morality is about respecting worth, however if we can say that something that disrespects worth is still moral, morality loses its meaning in informing us what is right and what is wrong.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third, morality is not black and white. The idea that something is either moral or immoral, and that there is always a moral option that you must take is flawed.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, the necessary and sufficient standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">rejecting all violence</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. This means the burden on both debaters is to show that their side of the resolution rejects all violence while the other side doesn't.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My thesis and sole contention is that the aff does not reject all violence, but rather deems it morally permissible. Affirming allows the victim to use deadly force, which is defined as</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“An amount of………..to another person.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is supercharged by the fact that this violence is deliberate, which is defined as</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Willful; purposeful; determined……… to be made.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, because the aff legitimizes violence, which violates the standard, vote neg.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Gandhi's My Homeboy NC 2.0]]Gandhi's My Homeboy NC 2.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I negate. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The neg burden is to show that it is morally impermissible for victims of repeated domestic abuse to use deliberate deadly force. Presume neg because </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. It is more probable that a statement is false than it is true. This means absent offense, it’s more likely the neg is right since it doesn’t have the burden of proof.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Negate is to deny the truth of, while affirming means to uphold the truth of. This means the aff has positive burden of proof. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">All definitions are from Legal-Dictionary. The Value is Morality as implied by the resolution.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Regardless of the moral system we employ, it must reject all violence. There are 5 warrants:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, violence is immoral because it destroys agency.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, morality is about respecting worth, however if we can say that something that disrespects worth is still moral, morality loses its meaning in informing us what is right and what is wrong.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third, humans have an intrinsic, unconditional right to life. Violence violates this principle by denying this unconditional value.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AHA ‘11, The Abolitionist Society of Oklahoma, April 22, 2011. “An Argument for the Right to Life from Conception,”[[http://www.abolishhumanabortion.com/2011/04/argument-for-right-to-life-from.html]].</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">An intrinsic right is……. applied to all people.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fourth, murder is always immoral since it is the arbitrary removal of one’s basic right to life.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fifth, Any ethical system that wills violence will cause a slippery slope leading to chaos.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the necessary and sufficient standard is morally rejecting all violence.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">My thesis and sole contention is that the aff does not reject all violence, but rather deems it morally permissible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">““An amount of force……..to another person.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, because the aff legitimizes violence, which violates the standard, vote neg.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Gandhi’s My Homeboy NC 3.0]]Gandhi’s My Homeboy NC 3.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I negate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Presumption flows neg:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. It is more probable that a statement is false than it is true. This means absent offense, it’s more likely the neg is right since it doesn’t have the burden of proof.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Negate is to deny the truth of, while affirming means to uphold the truth of. This means the aff has positive burden of proof.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is morally rejecting all violence.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 1 is Epistemology:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Epistemically, violence must be rejected for us to have any conception of a proper morality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ted Grimsund, [Teaches theology and peace studies at Eastern Mennonite University in Harrisonburg, VA.][[http://peacetheology.net/pacifism/16-pacifism-and-knowing-john-howard-yoders-epistemology/]].</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Let us define epistemology as…. hear the adversary.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 2 is the Meta-Ethic: Naturalism</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All facts are based in scientific principles. The law of conservation of energy requires that all moral judgments are derived from neurological processes. Papineau:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Papineau, “Naturalism,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2007.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the middle of the nineteenth…….sui generis mental causes.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The resolution being descriptive requires that we look to morality in the sense of how we actually come about moral judgments, not how we ought come about moral judgements.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nonviolence is hardwired into the brain—we inherently react to the possibility of harming others. Young</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.pnas.org/search?author1=Liane+Young&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|Liane Young]] [[http://www.pnas.org/content/104/20/8235.full#aff-1|*]] et al.. “The neural basis of the interaction between theory of mind and moral judgment”. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. May 15, 2007 vol. 104 no. 20 8235-8240</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Is the basis of criminality…… and behavioral levels.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This means the burden on both debaters is to show that their side of the resolution rejects all violence while the other side doesn't.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My thesis and sole contention is that the aff does not reject all violence, but rather deems it morally permissible. Affirming allows the victim to use deadly force, which is defined as</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“An amount of force......death to another person.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, because the aff legitimizes violence, which violates the standard, vote neg.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Gandhi’s My Homeboy NC 4.0]]Gandhi’s My Homeboy NC 4.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I negate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Presumption flows neg:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. It is more probable that a statement is false than it is true. This means absent offense, it’s more likely the neg is right since it doesn’t have the burden of proof.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Negate is to deny the truth of, while affirming means to uphold the truth of. This means the aff has positive burden of proof.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">morally rejecting all violence.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 1 is Universality:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Any standard can only be moral if everyone would rationally will it. This is key in order to not have contradictions. Contradictions in moral theories lead to people not having any reason to follow them, which leads to the ought-ought gap problem. This renders a moral theory with contradictions useless.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 2: Right to Life</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Humans have an intrinsic, unconditional right to life. Violence violates this principle by denying this unconditional value.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AHA ‘11, The Abolitionist Society of Oklahoma, April 22, 2011. “An Argument for the Right to Life from Conception,”[[http://www.abolishhumanabortion.com/2011/04/argument-for-right-to-life-from.html]].</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">An intrinsic right is….. be applied to all people.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This means the burden on both debaters is to show that their side of the resolution rejects all violence while the other side doesn't.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My thesis and sole contention is that the aff does not reject all violence, but rather deems it morally permissible. Affirming allows the victim to use deadly force, which is defined as</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“An amount of force.......death to another person.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, because the aff legitimizes violence, which violates the standard, vote neg.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Gandhi's My Homeboy NC 5.0]]Gandhi's My Homeboy NC 5.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I negate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Presumption flows neg:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. It is more probable that a statement is false than it is true. This means absent offense, it’s more likely the neg is right since it doesn’t have the burden of proof.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Negate is to deny the truth of, while affirming means to uphold the truth of. This means the aff has positive burden of proof.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">morally rejecting all violence.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 1 is Epistemology:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Epistemically, violence must be rejected for us to have any conception of a proper morality. Grimsund</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ted Grimsund, [Teaches theology and peace studies at Eastern Mennonite University in Harrisonburg, VA.][[http://peacetheology.net/pacifism/16-pacifism-and-knowing-john-howard-yoders-epistemology/]].</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Let us define epistemology as “that branch……to hear the adversary.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 2 is the Meta-Ethic: Naturalism</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All facts are based in scientific principles. The law of conservation of energy requires that all moral judgments are derived from neurological processes. Papineau:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Papineau, “Naturalism,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2007.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the middle of the nineteenth c………. with those physical antecedents.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The resolution being descriptive requires that we look to morality in the sense of how we actually come about moral judgments, not how we ought come about moral judgements.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nonviolence is hardwired into the brain—we inherently react to the possibility of harming others. Young</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.pnas.org/search?author1=Liane+Young&sortspec=date&submit=Submit|Liane Young]] [[http://www.pnas.org/content/104/20/8235.full#aff-1|*]] et al.. “The neural basis of the interaction between theory of mind and moral judgment”. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. May 15, 2007 vol. 104 no. 20 8235-8240</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Is the basis of criminality an act……. the neural and behavioral levels.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This means the burden on both debaters is to show that their side of the resolution rejects all violence while the other side doesn't.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My thesis and sole contention is that the aff does not reject all violence, but rather deems it morally permissible. Affirming allows the victim to use deadly force, which is defined as</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“An amount of force……….death to another person.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, because the aff legitimizes violence, which violates the standard, vote neg.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Victimization K 1.0]]Victimization K 1.0</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Link</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">: The 1AC through the word “victim” causes victimization. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coles</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alyson M. Cole. The Cult of True Victimhood: From the War on Welfare to the War on Terror. Stanford University Press, 2006, 256 pp.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cjsonline.ca/reviews/victimhood.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Since the 1990s, academics,……… fighting structural inequalities.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Impact</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">: Victimization turns and outweighs the case – causes oppression and denies agency </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappeller</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappeller 95 (Susanne, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg. 18)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There cannot therefore…….. on account of oppression.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alt</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">: Reject the victimization representation of the 1AC- The Affirmative’s representations of victimology justify further violence by rendering individuals as passive, subdued subjects, deserving of such violence </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ryan</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ryan 90 (Michael, Prof of English @ Northeastern Univ., November, 43 Vand. L. Rev. 1771, lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Representations signify and ……….. depictions of real things.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Framework:</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Questions of representations come first Evaluate the discursive impacts first. They have linked discursively to these depictions of victims, but nowhere have I linked to a discursive harm. Discourse must come first. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hill</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Cheryl Lynn Wofford Hill, "Restating International Jurisprudence in Inclusive Terms: Language as Method in Creating a Hospitable Worldview," 27 Okla. City U.L. Rev. 297, Spring, 2002, LexisNexis]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Language is a…… of human beings."</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Will To Kill K 1.0]]Will To Kill K 1.0</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 1: Links:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, question about the use of violence as a response to repeated domestic abuse ensure that violence continues while we wallow in our powerlessness </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappler [1]</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Susanne Kappeler, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995, pg. 10-11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">‘We are the war’…….war and violence.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, attempts to explain violence in abstract terms shield individuals responsibility. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappeler [2]</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Susanne Kappeler, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995, pg 14</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scientific discourse, too…….. complicated set of causes.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third, the aff defend the use of deadly force as a response repeated domestic violence. The </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">West Encyclopedia of American Law</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> defines the term “deadly force” as:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright 2008 The Gale Group, Inc. All rights reserved.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“An amount of…… to another person.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, the 1AC propagates a form of premeditated violence.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 2 is the Impacts:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff’s violence as an aberration guarantees our complicity with continued violent world orderings. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappeler [3]</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Susanne Kappeler, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995, pg 8-9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Violence – what we usually…….. them to happen.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, the aff’s depictions of violence are not simply inadequate; they are in and of themselves violent. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kapper [4]</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Susanne Kappeler, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995, pg. 6-7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This means engaging also……… refusing to fight back.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 3 is the Alternative:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We should begin our interrogations of violence with a local refusal to endorse the violence of the aff. We should become peace by refusing the aff. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappeler [5]</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Susanne Kappeler, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995, pg. 258</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If we nevertheless……..a non-violent society.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 4 is the Framework:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The K is a prerequisite to the types of interrogations initiated by the aff. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nayar</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jayan Nayar, Law Student at the University of Warwick, Re-Framing International Law for the 21st Century: Orders of Inhumanity, 9 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems 599, Fall 1999, ln</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The description of the c……….. technologies" of ordering.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Heteronormativity K 1.0]]Heteronormativity K 1.0</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 1 is the Link:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rooting domestic violence in an account of coverture and patriarchy excludes same-sex couples- this silent choice to represent heterosexual couples as “normal” replicates heteronormative violence</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phyllis Goldfarb- Professor, Boston College Law School- March 1, 1996, Describing without Circumscribing: Questioning the Construction of Gender in the Discourse of Intimate Violence, RESEARCH PAPER 1996-03, [[http://ssrn.com/abstract=916339]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The discourse of intimate violence……. less easily achieved.116</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 2 is the Impact:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By painting women as the essential victim of patriarchic abuse, the aff reifies the gender dichotomies that legitimize the subordination of women- turns the aff</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phyllis Goldfarb- Professor, Boston College Law School- March 1, 1996, Describing without Circumscribing: Questioning the Construction of Gender in the Discourse of Intimate Violence, RESEARCH PAPER 1996-03, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://ssrn.com/abstract=916339]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Commentators have noted that…… and oppression of sexual others.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 3 is the Framework:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Heteronormative discourses comes first –It allows for it to become a powerful form of normalization, reproducing and legitimizing violence against Others</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heternormative discourses construct subordinate Others through violent exlusions Yep</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gust A. Yep- PhD, San Francisco State University- 2003, The Violence of Heteronormativity in Communication Studies: Notes on Injury, Healing, and Queer World-Making, Journal of Homosexuality, 45: 2, 11-59</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In this passage, Simmons…….and oppression of sexual others.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. In-round education comes first because it actually affects real world. It allows us to learn something about our assumptions and ourselves. Fiat-based debate is merely a game.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. The laboratory environment of debate prevents real world impacts, making debates care, or serving its role as an educational institution. Mitchell writes</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gordon Mitchell - 1998 [Associate Professor, University of Pittsburgh], PEDAGOGICAL POSSIBILITIES FOR ARGUMENTATIVE AGENCY IN ACADEMIC DEBATE, Argumentation & Advocacy, 1998, Vol. 35 Issue 2, p41-60.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While an isolated academic space that</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4. Kritik debates are predicated on us taking personal action to change attitudes around us—whereas fiat based debates allow us to put that responsibility on others, i.e. the government—undermining any chance of grassroots coalition building.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 4 is the Alternative:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is to vote negative to reject the heternormative discourse of the 1ac.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Questioning current heteronormative discourses key to breaking down current conceptions of family and other social practices.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hudak and Giammattei, ‘10 < Jacqueline Hudak, M.Ed., Ph.D., and Shawn V. Giammattei, Ph.D “Doing Family: Decentering heteronormativity in “Marriage” and “Family” Therapy” American Family Therapy Academy></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Critiques from postmodern and queer…. our work with all families?</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Vigilante Justice DA 1.0]]Vigilante Justice DA 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">A: Link: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">The aff defends the moral permissibility of the abused using deadly force against the abuser. This categorizes the abuser as a vigilante taking the law into his or her own hands – increasing vigilante justice. Ayyildiz </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">Ayyildiz (Elisabeth Ayyildiz. “When Battered Women’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman As Vigilante.” Journal of Gender and the Law, Vol. 4:141, Fall 1995. [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 1995; B., University of Virginia, 1991.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">Thus, by killing her…… the moral order herself.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">B: Internal Links: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">Vigilantism risks democratic collapse and harms the rule of law O’ Connor </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">Tom T. O’Connor Vigilantism, Vigilante Justice, and Self-Help (August 20, 2007) Director, Institute for Global Security Studies, Austin Peay State University [[http://www.apsu.edu/oconnort]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">The vigilante knows it……and the rule of law. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">C: Impacts: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">1) Democracy solves extinction. Diamond </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">Diamond, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, 1995 (Larry, Promoting Democracy in the 1990s, December,[[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/fr.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">This hardly exhausts the lists……. and prosperity can be built.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">2) Rule of Law key to prevent nuclear war. Rhyne </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">RHYNE 1958 – FORMER PRESIDENT AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">LAW DAY SPEECH, VOIC OF AMERICA, [[http://www.abanet.org/publiced/lawday/rhyne58.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14px;">The rule of law has……. will compel its general acceptance.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Vigilante Justice DA 2.0]]Vigilante Justice DA 2.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A: Uniqueness & Brink: Democracy is at an all-time low due to economic unrest and government withdrawal.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Democracy index 2011: Democracy under stress, Economist Intelligence Unit, 2011</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global backsliding in democracy…… fell from 40% in 2007 to only 33% in 2009.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is empirically proven by the new SOPA/PIPA bills trying to get passed by the USFG, limiting media freedom.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">B: Link: The aff defends the moral permissibility of the abused using deadly force against the abuser. This categorizes the abuser as a vigilante taking the law into his or her own hands – increasing vigilante justice. Ayyildiz </span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">Ayyildiz (Elisabeth Ayyildiz. “When Battered Women’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman As Vigilante.” Journal of Gender and the Law, Vol. 4:141, Fall 1995. [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 1995; B., University of Virginia, 1991.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">Thus, by killing her…… the moral order herself.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">C: Internal Links: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">Vigilantism risks democratic collapse and harms the rule of law O’ Connor </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">Tom T. O’Connor Vigilantism, Vigilante Justice, and Self-Help (August 20, 2007) Director, Institute for Global Security Studies, Austin Peay State University [[http://www.apsu.edu/oconnort]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">The vigilante knows it……and the rule of law. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">And, brink: Democracy is at an all-time low due to economic unrest and government withdrawal. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">Democracy index 2011: Democracy under stress, Economist Intelligence Unit, 2011</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">Global backsliding in democracy…… to only 33% in 2009.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">D: Impacts: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">1) Democracy solves extinction. Diamond </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">Diamond, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, 1995 (Larry, Promoting Democracy in the 1990s, December,[[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/fr.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">This hardly exhausts the lists……. and prosperity can be built.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">2) Rule of Law key to prevent nuclear war. Rhyne </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">RHYNE 1958 – FORMER PRESIDENT AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">LAW DAY SPEECH, VOIC OF AMERICA, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.abanet.org/publiced/lawday/rhyne58.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.4px;">The rule of law has……. will compel its general acceptance.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Prison DA 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Prison DA 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A: Link: The abused retaliating in deadly force often results in the abused going to prison.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elizabeth Ann Dermody Leonard, Convicted Survivors The Imprisonment of Battered Women Who Kill, December 1997</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Almost without fail, abused……receive long, harsh sentences.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B: Impact is prevalent prison rape since conditions for women in prison are empirically terrible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kim Shayo Buchanan [JSD Candidate, Columbia Law School; Sessional Assistant Professor, Criminology/Law and Society, York University], “Impunity: Sexual Abuse in Women’s Prisons,” Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review, Vol 42, 2007.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inside prison, it is as….. portrayed as sexually “loose.”</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Kashmir & Jammu CP 1.0]]Kashmir & Jammu CP 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP Text: The state government of Jammu and Kashmir should ensure adequate funding and implementation of shelter for women effected by abuse, abuse counseling programs, legal aid, and also ensure state and municipal courts provide emergency restraining orders in instances of abuse, police removal of abusers and court mandated treatment programs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Competition:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Functionally Competitive: We give aid and resources and defend a categorical prohibition on the use of deadly force. 1AC defends the use of deadly force but the CP decreases the use of violence for a non-violent approach.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Textually Competitive: The 1AC actor is the Indian Federal Government to use deadly force while the CP uses The State Government of Jammur and Kashmir.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Net Benefits: The CP solves case while avoiding the disadvantages and case turns since we are ensuring Kashmiri women empowerment the aff defends.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solvency: Increasing resources decrease the likelihood of violence and protect those affected by abuse. Williams & Browne write</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exploring the Effect of Resource Availability and the Likelihood and Female-Perpetrated Homicides. Angela Brown. Kirk R. Williams. HeinOnline. Law & Society Review. Volume 23, Number 1. 1989.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although women in the….. homicide was controlled.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Kashmiri Peace DA 1.0]]Kashmiri Peace DA 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A: Uniqueness and Brink: Kashmiri Peace talks are in a unique window of opportunity. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Yusuf and Najam [1]</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moeed Yusuf & Adil Najam (2009): Kashmir: ripe for resolution?, Third World Quarterly, 30:8, 1503-1528</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The effect of these compulsions……. may not be permanent.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B: Link: The plan jeopardizes the consensus around peace by increasing Indian Interference in Kashmir. Kashmiri peace talks are working because the Kashmiri state is being given more autonomy. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Yusuf and Najam [2]</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moeed Yusuf & Adil Najam (2009): Kashmir: ripe for resolution?, Third World Quarterly, 30:8, 1503-1528</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, the concern for……… of any workable plan.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This link turns all nuclear war impacts in the 1AC.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Alternate Resources CP 1.0]]Alternate Resources CP 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. CP Text: For people affected by repeated domestic abuse, the USFG should ensure</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a) adequate funding and implementation of shelter</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b) abuse counseling programs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c) legal aid</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">d) state and municipal restraining orders in instances of abuse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">e) police removal of abusers AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">f) court mandated treatment programs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Competition:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. The counterplan solves domestic violence while deeming all forms of deadly force as a deliberate response to such violence morally impermissible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. It also competes through net benefits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Solvency:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increasing resources decrease the likelihood of violence and protect those affected by abuse. Williams & Browne write</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exploring the Effect of Resource Availability and the Likelihood and Female-Perpetrated Homicides. Angela Brown. Kirk R. Williams. HeinOnline. Law & Society Review. Volume 23, Number 1. 1989.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although women in the….. homicide was controlled.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D. Net Benefit:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, the counterplan functions as offense to the aff standard.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, I avoid using violence by deeming deliberate deadly force immoral</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Alternate Resources CP 2.0]]Alternate Resources CP 2.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. CP Text: For people affected by repeated domestic abuse, all international government should ensure</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a) adequate funding and implementation of shelter</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b) abuse counseling programs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c) legal aid</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">d) state and municipal restraining orders in instances of abuse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">e) police removal of abusers AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">f) court mandated treatment programs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Competition:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. The counterplan solves domestic violence while deeming all forms of deadly force as a deliberate response to such violence morally impermissible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. It also competes through net benefits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Solvency:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increasing resources decrease the likelihood of violence and protect those affected by abuse. Williams & Browne write</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exploring the Effect of Resource Availability and the Likelihood and Female-Perpetrated Homicides. Angela Brown. Kirk R. Williams. HeinOnline. Law & Society Review. Volume 23, Number 1. 1989.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although women in the….. homicide was controlled.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D. Net Benefit:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, the counterplan functions as offense to the aff standard.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Alternate Resources CP 3.0]]Alternate Resources CP 3.0</span>=== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. CP Text: For people affected by repeated domestic abuse, international government should ensure</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a) adequate funding and implementation of shelter</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b) legal aid</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c) police removal of abusers AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">d) court mandated treatment programs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Competition:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. The counterplan solves domestic violence while deeming all forms of deadly force as a deliberate response to such violence morally impermissible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. It also competes through net benefits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Solvency:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increasing resources decrease the likelihood of violence and protect those affected by abuse. Williams & Browne write</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exploring the Effect of Resource Availability and the Likelihood and Female-Perpetrated Homicides. Angela Brown. Kirk R. Williams. HeinOnline. Law & Society Review. Volume 23, Number 1. 1989.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although women in the….. homicide was controlled.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D. Net Benefit:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, the counterplan functions as offense to the aff standard.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, I avoid using violence by deeming deliberate deadly force immoral</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Aid LGBT Victims CP 1.0]]Aid LGBT Victims CP 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP Text: Federal Governments should ensure adequate funding and implementation of shelter for LGBT victims effected by abuse, abuse counseling programs, legal aid, and also ensure state and municipal courts provide emergency restraining orders in instances of abuse, police removal of abusers and court mandated treatment programs.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Competition:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Functionally Competitive: We give aid to LGBT with a prohibition on the use of deadly force. 1AC defends the use of deadly force but the CP decreases the use of violence for a non-violent approach.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Textually Competitive: The 1AC actor is the victim to use deadly force while the CP uses governmental actors.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Net Benefits: The CP solves case while avoiding the disadvantages and case turns since we are ensuring LGBT victims self defense rights the aff defends.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The counterplan solves the root cause of the need for the use of deadly force while avoiding the ___ net benefit.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solvency: Increasing resources decrease the likelihood of violence and protect LGBT victims of repeated abuse. Edwards</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=80650|Roxanne Dryden-Edwards, MD]]. 2010. Domestic Violence: Domestic Violence at a Glance.[[http://www.medicinenet.com/domestic_violence/page6.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The future of finding solutions……. provide consistent, structured support.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Victimization PIC 1.0]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Victimization PIC 1.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**A: CP Text:** It is morally permissible for survivors to use deliberate deadly force in response to repeated domestic violence.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B: Competition: </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. The aff uses the word victim while the counterplan proposes using the word “survivors”. This is categorically different from the affirmative. Any affirmative permutation of the counterplan severs their AC discourse. Severance is a voting issue:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The little a is advocacy shift: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The little b is ground: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. Net Benefits: CP solves 100% of the AC and avoids all case turns and disadvantages to the AC. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C: Framework: </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The standard is **stopping oppression.** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) Oppression and marginalization is something that we perpetuate. It doesn’t appear out of thin air. It is the result of complicity and inaction. Not speaking out against oppression is complicity. Nayar:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jayan Nayar, Law Student at the University of Warwick, Re-Framing International Law for the 21st Century: Orders of Inhumanity, 9 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems 599, Fall 1999</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">My questioning is not ………refuse to see, we dare not speak. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Our obligation to stop oppression extends past abstract philosophy. Philosophy seeks to tame us by removing context and rendering real suffering invisible. Nunn explains:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kenneth Nunn. “Law as a Eurocentric Enterprise”. (Spring, 1997). 15 Law & Inequality 323</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Abstraction. Closely related to …….reification of the abstract</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D: Theory </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Interpretation: The negative may run a PIC so long as it is competitive with the affirmative and has a solvency advocate. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. This theory is preemptive. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Standards:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) Real World Decision-Making </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Ground: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3) Time Skew:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The little a. Time skew is inevitable in debate. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The little b. Time skew from PICs is nonexistent.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">4) Strategy skew: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">5) Topic Literature: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">6) Competition checks </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">7) Infinite regress </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">8) Depth: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">9) Breadth of education: </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">E: Solvency</span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The “victim” denotes entrapment while “survivor” implies decision making and agency possible. Survivorhood discourse is the only way to create therapeutic changes in the abused’s status. Dunn</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jennifer L. Dunn [Professor of Sociology at Southern Illinois University], "“Victims” and “Survivors”: Emerging Vocabularies of Motive for “Battered Women Who Stay”" Sociological Inquiry Vol. 75, Issue 1, p. 1-30(Dec 2004)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The voices of activists ……… when declaring themselves survivors” (Mills 1985:117–18).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Also, the counterplan solves by not creating the representations defended by the aff.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">F: Net Benefits </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, The 1AC's discourse through the word “victim” is the root cause of victimization. It marginalizes the abused depicting them as weak, passive, and hopeless. Coles writes </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alyson M. Cole. The Cult of True Victimhood: From the War on Welfare to the War on Terror. Stanford University Press, 2006, 256 pp.[[http://www.cjsonline.ca/reviews/victimhood.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Since the 1990s, academics, journalists………… aimed at fighting structural inequalities. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the victim discourse exacerbates the dichotomy between the abused and people since it creates an image of helplessness, enabling violence.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, Victimization prevents empowerment by distracting us from our real ability to act – this turns and outweighs the case Kappeller </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kappeller 95 (Susanne, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg. 18)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There cannot therefore ……….. on account of oppression.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This means the PIC solves the aff better since using survivor rhetoric empowers the abused to defend themselves.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third, The Affirmative’s representations of victims cause further violence by rendering individuals as passive, subdued subjects, deserving of violence. Michael Ryan writes:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ryan 90 (Michael, Prof of English @ Northeastern Univ., November, 43 Vand. L. Rev. 1771, lexis) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Representations signify and produce ……… as depictions of real things.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, evaluate the discursive impacts first. The PIC functions pre-fiat since it questions discourse of the aff. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) They have linked discursively to these depictions of the abused as “victims”. Discourse must come first. Languages shows the way we think. Hill writes:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Cheryl Lynn Wofford Hill, "Restating International Jurisprudence in Inclusive Terms: Language as Method in Creating a Hospitable Worldview," 27 Okla. City U.L. Rev. 297, Spring, 2002, LexisNexis]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Language is a method ………. the behavior of human beings."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) In-round education comes first because it actually affects real world. It allows us to learn something about our assumptions and ourselves. Fiat-based debate is merely a game.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Perm doesn’t solve any of the net benefit since:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The link from the aff is huge, as the entire case talks about victimization. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The perm is just co-opted. </span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Trutil NC 1.0]]Trutil NC 1.0</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I value </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">morality</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 1 is the Metaethic:</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. All facts must be reducible to scientific principles. This is because the world is causally closed under natural facts. This means that moral considerations must be based in physical facts about our mental states. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Papineau:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Papineau, “Naturalism,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2007.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the middle of……. those physical antecedents.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Epistemologically, there must be some neurological system for determining what moral experiences are retained. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hauser</span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hauser, Marc Moral Minds: The Nature of Right and Wrong 2006</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What I hope……. our local culture.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 2 is the ethic:</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Consequentialism is the only theory that fulfills this metaethic.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Brain studies prove that humans’ most modern sense of morality is hardwired utilitarian. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lucretius</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lucretius, “Does Neuroscience Refute Ethics,” August 24, 2005, Ludwig von Mises Institute. (Citation for Greene et al. study: “The Neural Bases of Cognitive Conflict and Control in Moral Judgment,” Neuron, Vol. 44, 389-400, Oct. 14, 2004, Joshua D. Greene,1,2,* Leigh E. Nystrom,1,2Andrew D. Engell,1,2John M. Darley,1and Jonathan D. Cohen1,2 1Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Center for the Study of Brain, Princeton University)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So far, so good. Regardless…….. must be recruited.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 3 is Justification:</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This reasoning about the causality of morality is justified:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Causal closure demands that our mental states, and hence moral beliefs, must be rooted in physical facts about us.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. You can’t assume things without experiencing them.</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 4 is the standard:</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is net benefits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Other moral theories require agents with a SPECIFICALLY situated action. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pettit:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Philip Pettit [Prof. Philosophy, Princeton]. “Non-Consequentialism And Political Philosophy.” Enfoques, año/vol. XVIII, número 1-2. PP. 27-49 (2006)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In my earlier characterization…… by those principles.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C1 - Deadly Force makes the abuse worse</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Daniel G. Saunders; “When Battered Women Use Violence: Husband-Abuse or Self-Defense?”; //Victims and Violence Vol.1 No. 1.;// Springer Publishing Company 1986</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">"Even though many...between the partners."</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Trutil NC 2.0]]<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Trutil NC 2.0</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I value morality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 1 is the Metaethic:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. All facts must be reducible to scientific principles. This is because the world is causally closed under natural facts. This means that moral considerations must be based in physical facts about our mental states. Papineau:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Papineau, “Naturalism,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2007.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the middle of……. those physical antecedents.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Epistemologically, there must be some neurological system for determining what moral experiences are retained. Hauser</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hauser, Marc Moral Minds: The Nature of Right and Wrong 2006</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What I hope……. our local culture.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Section 2 is the ethic:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Consequentialism is the only theory that fulfills this metaethic.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Brain studies prove that humans’ most modern sense of morality is hardwired utilitarian. Lucretius:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lucretius, “Does Neuroscience Refute Ethics,” August 24, 2005, Ludwig von Mises Institute. (Citation for Greene et al. study: “The Neural Bases of Cognitive Conflict and Control in Moral Judgment,” Neuron, Vol. 44, 389-400, Oct. 14, 2004, Joshua D. Greene,1,2,* Leigh E. Nystrom,1,2Andrew D. Engell,1,2John M. Darley,1and Jonathan D. Cohen1,2 1Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Center for the Study of Brain, Princeton University)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So far, so good. Regardless…….. must be recruited.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The standard is net benefits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C1 - Deadly Force makes the abuse worse</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Daniel G. Saunders; “When Battered Women Use Violence: Husband-Abuse or Self-Defense?”; Victims and Violence Vol.1 No. 1.; Springer Publishing Company 1986</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Even though many...between the partners."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 - The aff defends the moral permissibility of the abused using deadly force against the abuser. This categorizes the abuser as a vigilante taking the law into his or her own hands – increasing vigilante justice. Ayyildiz</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ayyildiz (Elisabeth Ayyildiz. “When Battered Women’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman As Vigilante.” Journal of Gender and the Law, Vol. 4:141, Fall 1995. [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 1995; B., University of Virginia, 1991.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus, by killing……..the moral order herself.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vigilantism is empirically proven to increase crime. Sekhonyane and Louw</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Makubetse Sekhonyane & Antoinette Louw (April 2002) Violent Justice Vigilantism and the State’s Response, Monograph 72, Chapter 1 Introduction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vigilantism not only leads to….. turn result in more crime.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-DACC CP 1.0]]**DACC CP 1.0**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Text:</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Federal governments will implement mandatory arrest policies on every domestic violence report and require that the abusers attend a rehabilitative educational program modeled on the Domestic Abuse Counseling Center.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Competition:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. The counterplan is textually competitive because it fiats the action of an alternative actor, i.e. governments. The aff only discusses actions taken by the abused.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. The counterplan is functionally competitive because it still deems deadly force morally impermissible, while the aff must defend the moral permissibility of such an action.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. The counterplan competes through net benefits. Any permutation of the counterplan concedes 100% of the net benefits as a disadvantage to the perm.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Solvency:</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">More than 92% of the program attendees don’t commit domestic violence again.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Domestic Abuse Counseling Center, 2010, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dacc.net/about/default.asp?bdy=advantage.asp]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Over 92 percent of DACC program completers were not rearrested for domestic violence assault 15 months following the program, according to an evaluation study based on 1993-94 participants. This rate is one of the best outcomes among published reports of 20 batterer program evaluations.</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Wrong Focus K 1.0]]**Wrong Focus K 1.0**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Links.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. The aff focuses on victim empowerment through violence and treats the victim as the key to solving domestic violence. Berns 1:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the victim empowerment……. on the responsibility of victims.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. The aff only discusses what the victim should do rather than why the abuser chooses to abuse—this reemphasizes that the victim is all that matters. Berns 2:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Along the way, the……. policy response to the problem.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Is the Internal Link</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our Focus when discussing social problems dictates the range of solutions we perceive as possible. Berns 3:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">An example of narrow…….. leads to the best solutions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, their framing actually excludes a variety of solutions to domestic violence. Berns 4:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Social problems are characterized……….. the battered woman shelter (Loseke 1992).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Is the Impact:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff can’t solve the root cause of domestic violence and entrenches existing power hierarchies</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. The Aff oversimplifies our understanding of power, enabling all the impacts they claim are bad. Berns 5:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the victim empowerment perspective, power…….. and society, and cultural tolerance of violence.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This creates a ruse of solvency, and therefore, the aff makes domestic violence inevitable.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. The aff can’t solve the root cause of violence. Berns 6:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The dominant perspective in the…….. reducing the amount of violence occurring.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. The aff’s focus on victim action prevents us from examining power structures [such as patriarchy] that make violence inevitable. This turns the AC because they can never solve the problem with their approach. Berns 7:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Also in Chapter 8 I explain……. any progress towards preventing violence</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D. Is the Counterplan Solvency.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. The counterplan sparks discussion and awareness of why violence occurs. This is key to solving not only actual violence, but also the individual focused framing that excuses violence. Berns 8:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Since popular media have…… how we might accomplish these goals.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. The CP solves better than the aff and helps us construct new attitudes towards violence. Berns 9:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The rest of the story is about....... that teach and tolerate abuse.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">E. is the Framework:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Debate is a conversation that affects our perceptions of real problems. Questions of framing and representations should come first.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Debate is more than an academic exercise—our framing of domestic violence affects how we behave when we are confronted with it. Berns 10:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nancy Berns. Framing the victim, domestic violence, media, and social problems. 2004. [associate Professor of Sociology at Drake University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another important reason to start with……….and what we fail to do.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There are three implications:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A) In-round education comes first because it actually affects real world. It allows us to learn something about ourselves and our assumptions. Fiat-based debate is merely a game.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) Pre-fiat debates are predicated on us taking personal action to alter attitudes around us—this prepares debaters to make real change after they graduate.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C) Framing our representations in the wrong way actually causes us to harm others.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Representations come first—their evaluation of who “solves” better is contingent on the representations debate. Until we problematize representations, our impact calculus is doomed. Elcheroth</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Elcheroth et al 2011 (Guy, prof psych @ U Lausanne “On the Knowledge of Politics and the Politics of Knowledge: How a Social Representations Approach Helps Us Rethink the Subject of Political Psychology” Political Psychology, Vol. 32, No. 5,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What we have argued so………draw the boundaries of the possible.</span>




=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#March-April]]March-April</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#March-April-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#March-April-Negative]]Negative</span>==