[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC</span>
THE HISTORY OF NASA’S LOVELACE PROGRAM, A FAILED PROGRAM DESIGNED TO RECRUIT AND TRAIN WOMEN ASTORNAUTS, REVEALS AN INTERLOCKING WEB OF GENDER OPPRESSION, SCIENTIFIC REGIMES OF TRUTH, AND NATIONALIST MILITARISM AT WORK IN U.S. SPACE POLICY.
Weitekamp, 2004<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Margaret A. Weitekamp, Right Stuff, Wrong Sex: America's First Women in Space Program, pg 2-5, 2004, mcmc </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Cobb's Publicity Photo Captured A Telling Moment When The U.S. Space Program, Aerospace Science, Cold War Politics, And Gender Relations Intersected In A Short-Lived Women's Astronaut Testing Program. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Throughout</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The Spring And Summer Of </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1961, Dr</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. William […] Of The United States' Manned Space Program.</span>__**



THE STORY THE LOVELACE PROGRAM ISN’T JUST ABOUT DOMINATION – IT’S ALSO A STORY ABOUT WOMEN FIGHTING BACK. MERCURY 13 PROVIDES THE RHETORICAL CONTEXT FOR OUR 1AC’S INTERVENTION TO THE MASCULINE DISCOURSE AND DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES THAT DRIVE THE U.S. SPACE PROGRAM.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ACKMANN, 2005 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">MARTHA ACKMANN, GUEST COLUMNIST, Tuesday, July 12, 2005, “ Women Rose Above NASA’s Sexist Attitude, Seattle Pi, http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Women-rose-above-NASA-s-sexist-attitude-1178156.php, 27 June 2011, CL</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In 1961, 13 crackerjack women pilots secretly traveled to </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> […] The Mercury 13 opened the door.</span>__**



THIS STRUGGLE CONTINUES TODAY - WHILE WOMEN MAY NOW FINALLY BE STUDYING SPACE, THEY HAVE YET TO ACHIEVE EQUITY IN ITS EXPLORATION.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Neibur 2009 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Dr. Susan M. Niebur, Discovery Program Scientist, Solar System Exploration Division, Code SE, Office of Space Science, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Niebur Consulting, 418 Hillsboro Drive, Silver Spring, MD 20902, USA, Available online 17 October 2009, Space Policy 25 (2009) 257e263, <span style="font-family: Cambria;">[[http://www.elsevier.com/locate/spacepol|www.elsevier.com/locate/spacepol]]</span></span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only one of NASA’s </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> […] mission leadership at NASA.</span>__**



NASA’S GENDER NORMS ARE ENFORCED AGAINST FEMALE ASTRONAUTS THROUGH APPARATUSES OF MEDICAL CONTROL.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Casper and Moore ’95 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Monica J. Casper is a professor of Social and Behavioral Sciences and Women and Gender Studies, New College of Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences, Arizona State University; and Lisa Jean Moore, PH.D., MPH is a Professor of Sociology and Gender Studies @ School of Natural and Social Sciences. “INSCRIBING BODIES, INSCRIBING THE FUTURE: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space.” Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 38, No. 2 (Summer, 1995), pp. 311-333. Date Accessed: 7/1/2011. A.P. <span style="font-family: Cambria;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/1389295.pdf?acceptTC=true]]</span></span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Female astronauts</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> thus __have dual pressures **[…]** nature and procreative function.__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Below, we explore more explicitly some key linkages between discourses of gender and sexuality</span>
THIS INTERSECTION OF MEDICAL KNOWLEDGE AND PATRIARCHY REPRODUCES HETERONORMATIVE, CLASSIST, AND RACIALIZED FORMS OF DOMINATION.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Durazo 2006</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Ana Clarissa Rojas Durazo, The Medicalization of Domestic Violence 180-181, 2006</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This is particularly dangerous to </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> […] </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> produces ideology that legitimates it.</span>__**



THE TERRESTRIAL CONTAINMENT OF WOMEN ON PLANET EARTH SHORES UP THE NEAT BINARY LOGIC OF PATRIARCHY --TERRESTRIAL FEMINISM MARKS A KEY BREAK FROM THE GENDER ESSENTIALISM OF STATUS QUO SPACE EXPLORATION.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lathers 2001 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Marie Lathers, professor in humanities and French at Case Western Reserve University, Gravity is one more way to keep women in their place”, Times Higher Education, December 21, 2001, <span style="font-family: Cambria;">[[http://www.timeshighereducation.co.uk/story.asp?storyCode=166342&sectioncode=26]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The answer to Cobb's question lies beyond a **__[…]__** __essentialism that bottles us up.__ </span>



PATRIARCHAL BINARIES ARE AT THE ROOT OF THE DIVISIVE US VS THEM LOGIC THAT PERPETUATES CONSTANT WARFARE AND VIOLENCE.
<span class="cite">PETERSON 2000 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">V</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Spike Peterson, Assc. Prof of Poli Sci @ U of Arizona, //SAIS REVIEW,// “Rereading Public and Private: The Dichotomy that is Not One.” Vol. 20, Iss. 2; pg. 11, 2000</span>

Similarly, **__a categorical separation […] the objectification of “woman, native, other.”__**



PATRIARCHY CREATES A DEADLY FEEDBACK LOOP OF MILITARISM AND SEXISM THAT ENSURES CONSTANT WARFARE.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steans 98, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Jill Steans, Senior Lecturer in International Relations Theory , Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, Gender and International Relations: An Introduction, 1998 p. 116-117</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Furthermore, feminist analysis suggests that </span> **__[…] oppression and threats to their security be fully understood<span class="underline0">.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THE PLAN – THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE THE ROLE OF WOMEN ASTRONAUTS IN THE EXPLORATION OF SPACE BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOSPHERE.</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THE PLAN IS ROOTED IN THE IDEA THAT GENDER EXCLUSION IS WRONG AND MUST BE REPLACED WITH NEW POLITICAL REALITIES.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">REARDON, 1993</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Betty Reardon, Consultant to the TCPEC and Founding Director Emeritus, Leading theorist, and designer of pedagogic materials and processes in peace education, initiator and the first Academic Coordinator of the Hague Appeal for Peace Global Campaign for Peace Education 40 years of experience in the international peace education movement and 25 years in the international movement for the human rights of women. She has served as a consultant to several UN agencies and education organizations and has published widely in the field of peace and human rights education, and women’s issues. __Women and peace: feminist visions of global security,__ 17-18, 1993, mcmc</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The connections among peace, **[…]** of opportunity and freedom”</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Cagan, 1983, p. 94). </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">STRUGGLING FOR INCREASED PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN ASTRONAUTS OPENS US UP TO A BROADER CONCEPT OF PEACE AND SECURITY GROUNDED IN A STRUGGLE FOR GENDER EQUITY.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">REARDON, 1993</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Betty Reardon, Consultant to the TCPEC and Founding Director Emeritus, e has served as a consultant to several UN agencies and education organizations and has published widely in the field of peace and human rights education, and women’s issues. __Women and peace: feminist visions of global security,__ 18-19, 1993, mcmc</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Women’s perspectives on peace </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> […] to human security.</span>__**



WE AFFIRM THE POSITION OF THE WOMAN IN SPACE AS A CHALLENGE TO BOTH THE DISCOURSE OF PATRIARCHAL BINARISM AND THE HISTORICAL EXCLUSION OF WOMEN AS A SOCIAL PRACTICE.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">LATHERS, 2010 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Marie Lathers, professor in humanities and French at Case Western Reserve University, __Space Oddities: Women and Outer Space in Popular Film and Culture, 1960-2000,__ 2010, 6</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">This study poses the Woman in space as </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> […] of which have encouraged real women to stay at home. </span>__**



SPACE IS A KEY SITE TO CHALLENGE THE CULTURAL AND DISCURSIVE POLITIC OF PATRIARCHY – BOTH THE DISCURSIVE __AND__ MATERIAL PROJECTION OF WOMENS BODIES INTO OUTER SPACE CHALLENGES THE PUBLIC/PRIVATE DICHOTOMY.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">LATHERS, 2010 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Marie Lathers, professor in humanities and French at Case Western Reserve University, __Space Oddities: Women and Outer Space in Popular Film and Culture, 1960-2000,__ 2010, 5</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Popular culture's coming to terms with the possibility </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> […] </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">competent, and sane woman in space has slowly emerged over the decades as a feasible candidate for science fiction Elms.</span>



OUR FEMINIST STRUGGLE FOR GENDER REFORM IS ROOTED IN THE FINITUDE OF HUMAN POSSIBILITY - THIS MEANS THAT EVEN IF IT’S IMPOSSIBLE TO SOLVE THE BROADER STRUCTURES OF OPPRESSION, WE HAVE TO FIGHT POLITICALLY ON BEHALF OF THE PRINCIPLES OF EQUITY.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CAMPBELL 1980 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Karlyn Kohrs Campbell, “Stanton’s ‘The Solitude of Self:” A Rationale for Feminism,” Quarterly Journal of Speech, 66 (1980). 304-12.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **__Reformers,__** especially those **__[…] but how precious that little.__** </span>



=Negative= 
Pre UT disclosure: We have said the Privatization CP, the Libertarianism K, the Launches/Ozone DA,
SKFTA, the China Currency Politics DA,
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]