[[toc]]
=Affirmative- Glenbrooks= 
===<span class="Underline">**Contention One - The Status Quo**</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**Space is only the illusion of the commons – when more states gain access to space it will be exploited**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gendreau 2**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> law and political science professor at Université Paris VII-Denis Diderot (Monique, Constellations Volume 9, “The Idea of the Common Heritage of Humankind and its Political Uses”, November 3, 2002, [375-376])[KEZIOS]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">For extra-atmospheric space and celestial bodies.. states and in view of rational management?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should, affirming the outer space treaty, substantially increase space programs that eliminate space debris beyond the earth’s mesosphere for the Common Heritage of Humankind.</span>

== == 
===**Contention two – Ultimate Evil**=== 

**Space has become a forum for capitalist exploitation. The new venue for the struggle against capitalism is now space.**

Barton **__BEEBE__** Law @ NYU **__’99__** “Law's Empire and the Final Frontier: Legalizing the Future in the Early Corpus Juris Spatialis” //Yale Law Journal// 108 (7) p. 1758-1763

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Commenting on the outpouring of writing on space law in the wake of Sputnik, ....? Law owns the universe.</span>

**Making empires in space subjects us to the same slavery to capital as on earth, the fear of the that the commons collapse allows economic and technological inequalities subjected less developed states to be slaves to the technologically superior states.**

Kathryn **__Milun__**, Anthropology/Sociology @ Minnesota Duluth 20**__10__** //The Political Uncommons: the cross-cultural logic of the global commons// p. 141-145

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In 1999the United Nations General Assembly voted to reaffirm the Outer Space Treaty ...</span> __nineteenth-century imperialist sense.__


**Allowing this evil greed to expand into space risks the worst extinction scenarios possible, allowing capitalism into space outweighs any possible impact you can read, it would turn mankind into a standing reserve and would justify anything to further our development**

Josée **__JOHNSTON__**, Associate Professor of Sociology at the University of Toronto, 200**__3__**
Capitalism, Nature, Socialism, “Who Cares about the Commons?” December 2003, [Stolarski]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Even when the specific language of enclosure of the commons ...</span> __discern any problem__.

**The fear of the tragedy of the commons sets us up to failure. This tragedy is not possible in space as most resources in space are not finite;**
Harlan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Cleveland**,</span> president of World Academy of Art and Science, professor emeritus of Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota, served as US ambassador to NATO; “Introducing the Global Commons,” 19**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">99</span>,** TheGuardians.com, http://www.theguardians.com/space/harlan.html
<span class="DebateUnderline">In the commons environments,</span> but instead being wasted, intensifying preexisting inequities and providing a whole set of new occasions for international conflict."


**Respecting space as the heritage of the commons allows us to establish a new anti imperial discourse, Voting Affirmative allows us to shape our space policy into a mode of multilateral cooperation**

Kathryn **__Milun__**, Anthropology/Sociology @ Minnesota Duluth 20**__10__** //The Political Uncommons: the cross-cultural logic of the global commons// p. 147-149

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For his final argument in favor of further privatization of outer space....... spectrum, the World Wide Web, and the biodiversity of the earth—was the distance we had to go from Western notions of property to find a //jus novum// in which to ground a new economic order based in a right to subsistence (“the needs of life”) with wealth generated from the assets of globally common property. </span>

===__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention three – The Great War</span>**__=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the status quo space militarization is inevitable, the United States values its capital in space as too precious to expend meaning weapons will be built to defend them, only by equalizing our assets in space with other countries can we truly demilitarize space.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> –[Peter Dickens and James Ormrod, Affiliated Lecturer in the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences at the University of Cambridge and Visiting Professor of Sociology, University of Essex and Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton Cosmic Society: Towards a sociology of the universe, pg 94-95]</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States government is by far the </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">dominant</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> military force ... it is a strategy that is being spread throughout the cosmos.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The current policy of militarizing space creates thousands of wars that do not need to be fought. Extending our militaristic domination into space destroys our only chance of defeating a deadly astropolitics**</span>

<span class="Underline">**MacDonald 07,** Fraser MacDonald, Professor of Anthropology, Geography, and Environmental Studies at Melbourne University in Australia, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography,” //Progress in Human Geography,// 2007, Pages 592-615.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two things should now be clear. First, </span><span class="Underline">outer space is no longer remote from our everyday lives;.....</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">o all’ sits awkwardly with the current suspension of the rule of law in Guantanamo Bay as well as in various other ‘spaces of exception’ (see Gregory, 2004; Agamben, 2005).</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Put away your realism cards. Realism cannot explain why most superpowers choose to respect space as a global commons. Realism does not apply to space policies</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">M. J. Peterson, 97</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – M.J. Peterson, Spring 1997, International Organization, Vol. 51, No. 2 (Spring, 1997), pp. 245-27</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Realist theories of international relations, with their focus on rational actors perceiving interests and calculating how well they can do in the prevailing distribution of capability, easily anticipate that the states most able to pursue space activity would have the greatest influence on writing outer space law......</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> of cooperative or competitive behavior among states and other actors</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**Critically Affirming International Law is the only way that critical theory can become successful and actually challenge powerful norms**

<span class="Heading2Char">Aceves Law</span><span class="Underline"> Associate </span><span class="Heading2Char">Prof</span><span class="Underline">essor, California Western School of Law </span><span class="Heading2Char">2001</span>
<span class="Underline">William J., “Critical Jurisprudence and International Legal Scholarship: A Study of Equitable Distribution,” Columbia Journal of Transnational Law, 39 Colum. J. Transnat'l L. 299, LexisNexis</span>


<span class="Underline">While critical jurisprudence has focused primarily on the domestic legal system, it is worthwhile to consider its relevance and application to other legal systems</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. ....</span><span class="Underline"> a distinction without value</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. n77 </span>

===__**Contention 4 – The solution**__=== 

**Space Debris has turned Space into an imperialist trash can. Only by cleaning up our “mess” can the commons actually be opened to everyone**
**Center for New American Security** **(** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Abraham M. Denmark is a Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. Chris Evans is a Senior Consultant at Delta Risk Consulting. Robert D. Kaplan, a National Correspondent for The Atlantic and a Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, is writing a book on the Indian Ocean. Jason Healey is the Washington D.C. Office Director for Delta Risk Consulting. Frank Hoffman wrote his chapter when he was a Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute and the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies. He now works for the Department of the Navy. Oliver Fritz is the Assistant Director of Strategic Planning at Headquarters, U.S. Air Force. Lt Col Kelly Martin (USAF) is a Senior Military Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. Dr. James Mulvenon is Vice-President of Defense Group Inc.’s Intelligence Division and Director of DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. Dr. Greg Rattray is a Partner at Delta Risk Consulting, is Chief Internet Security Advisor at the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), and is a member of the Cyber Conflict Studies Association Board. Eric Sterner is a Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.) </span>**2010 “** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World” 2010 ([[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested%20Commons_1.pdf]]) [Pitman]</span>


__The United States must set the agenda for globally beneficial space activity....__aty, shifting the focus from modest, but practical, technical goals into broader, political goals aimed at curtailing U.S. advantages. Avoiding such pitfalls would require close coordination and cooperation in the interagency process and a domestic strategic consensus about the purpose, and limitations, of these kinds of discussions.

__**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Electro Dynamic Debris Eliminator can solve our space problem. We have the technology now and it can sustain itself once in orbit</span>**__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jerome Pearson, STAR president, DoD and NASA tech developer, once researcher for NASA and the Air Force Research Laboratory, 10. “Active Debris Removal: EDDE, the Electrodynamic Debris Eliminator,” prepared for the International Astronautical Congress, </span>[[http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf]]


The most near-term and technically advanced method presented was a roving space vehicle that can capture LEO debris objects in nets and drag them down safely out of the space lanes....... The principle of operation of an EDDE vehicle is shown in Figure 2.
== == 
===__**Contention 5 - Framework**__=== 

**The framework for the debate is simple: policymakers make decisions with a vision in mind of the future to which they aim—voting affirmative to enact the plan as an ideological stand against the neoliberal erosion of the global commons constitutes the best policy option for a decisionmaker focused on space policy. Translating idealistic visions into a policy with the plan solves best**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Huntley et al. 2009</span> (Wade, Prof. at Naval Postgraduate School, “Planning the Unplannable…” //Space Policy// [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA523690&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This absence is ironic, given that</span> <span class="Underline">human interests in space are intrinsically visionary</span>. Perhaps <span class="Underline">no other element of contemporary human life so inspires the imagination............</span> long-term human presence in space.


**Neoliberalism destroys public space—your role in this debate is to oppose the colonization of the debate world by neoliberal logics—attempts to box in the contours of the affirmative proposal are politicized attempts to reassert neoliberalisms hegemony**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux 04</span> (Professor of Media at McMaster University, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neoliberalism” Policy Futures in Education, Volume 2, Numbers 3 & 4)
The ascendancy of neo-liberal corporate culture into every aspect of American life.....<span class="Underline"> and affective regimes central to reproducing neo-liberalism</span>.

=Negative= 
===Glenbrooks=== 
======Past 2NRS-====== 
**Round 1**---Against Bellarmine SM- (Brilliant Pebbles)
EU CP and Polx

**Round 2--** Johns Creek TT (Lunar Quarantine)
Cap K

**Round 3**- Dowling SB (Weaponization)
Cap K

other neg rounds before I had Gisel as a partner-- usually case turns & or disad/case
====**Homewood Flossmor**==== 
=====Past 2NRS-===== 
**Round 2-** TSPS
EU CP, case turns

Round 4- Zizek Affirmative
Ground CP, Debris DA, case defense

Round 6- SPS
EU CP, case turns (shoulda been polx)

===Cites=== 
If you want cites email: [[mailto:sharroaltu22@gmail.com|sharroaltu22@gmail.com]]