[[toc]]
If you have questions please: [[mailto:Matt_zavislan@comcast.net|Email Me]]This is not an exhaustive list and some citations are missing. I am reluctant to disclose aff cites since seeing as though I need to do 100% of my own prep, I don't feel comfortable with disclosure of active ACs since disclosure isn't a norm yet.
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Valley-Suffering AC=== 
Sentient Animals Only

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">"recognition." Dictionary.com Unabridged. Random House, Inc. 28 Aug. 2011. <Dictionary.com </span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/recognition]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">>.</span>



<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Steven Wise "animal rights." Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica, 2011. Web. 13 Sep. 2011. <<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/25760/animal-rights]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Reject Radical Interps**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Garrett,Richard Animals and Downturn. Social Animals. Wednesday, September 7, 2011</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Rights are Considerations**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Philip Pettit “The Consequentialist Can Recognise Rights” The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 38, No. 150 (Jan., 1988), pp. 42. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2220266 </span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Nature of Rights**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Thompson, Michael, “What Is It To Wrong Someone? A Puzzle About Justice”, in Reason and Value: Themes from The Moral Philosophy of Joseph Raz, ed. R.J. Wallace, Philip Pettit, Samuel Scheffler, and Michael Smith (Oxford, 2004)</span>

**Util sufficient for rights.**

**Rights Under Util**
Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation, 2nd edition, New York: Avon Books, 1990, pp. 10-12, 14-15.


**Ethical Judgements Must be Based in Empirical Fact**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">David Papineau “Naturalism” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2007 http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/naturalism/</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Pain Is Objectively Bad**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Thomas Nagel, The View From Nowhere, 1989,</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Reason is Circular**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Ash , Kyle, [“International Animal Rights: Speciesism and Exclusionary Human. Animal Law, 2005.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Universalizability = Animal Rights**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Korsgaard, Christine M. “Facing the Animal You See in the Mirror,” Lecture at Harvard University, Facing Animals Panel Discussion, April, 2007. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/%7Ekorsgaar/CMK.Facing.Animals.pdf|http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~korsgaar/CMK.Facing.Animals.pdf]]</span></span>

Burden: Animals Feel Pain

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Animals Feel Pain**</span>

Singer, Peter. Do Animals Feel Pain? Excerpted from Animal Liberation, 2nd edition, New York: Avon Books, 1990, pp. 10-12, 14-15.

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Science Proves. Also Feel Phenom Pain**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Richard Sarjeant, The Spectrum of Pain. (London: Hart Davis, 1969), p. 72.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Rights Held Naturally**</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13.3333px;">Johnson, Andrew. [Professor of Philosophy, Cambridge University] “A blind eye to animal rights?” Philosophy, vol. 64, no. 248, April 1989, pp. 255-260</span>

===CAFOs Plan AC=== 
Will Post After Bronx

===Universal Naturalism AC=== 
Will Post After Bronx

===Heidegger AC=== 
Will Post After Bronx

===Universalism AC=== 
Will Post After Bronx

==Negative== 
===Cohen NC=== 

**Rights are claims of one moral agent within a community of moral agents.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Carl</span> Cohen <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research” The New England Journal of Medicine Notes have been omitted. Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved. Reprinted by permission of The New England Journal of Medicine</span>.

**Must recognize the constraints of duty and differentiate between interest and justice. Animals cannot self-legislate and thus possess no rights.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Carl</span> Cohen <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research” The New England Journal of Medicine Notes have been omitted. Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved. Reprinted by permission of The New England Journal of Medicine</span>.

===Oderberg NC=== 
Valley rnd 4, Doubles and Octas
**Rights Holders must be able to reciprocate rights claims and have knowledge of those claims.**
David S. Oderberg, Moral Theory: A Non-Consequentialist Approach (Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, 2000).

**Animals are incapable of both of these capacities and thus cannot possess rights. Appeal to necessity just exposes the paradox of animal rightism.**
David S. Oderberg, Moral Theory: A Non-Consequentialist Approach (Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, 2000).

===Vaccines DA=== 
Valley Rnd 3
**Testing Key to New Vaccines**
Lynette A. Hart, Amy Dassler “VACCINES” 1996 http://www.vetmed.ucdavis.edu/Animal_alternatives/vaccines.htm

**Vaccines Save Millions**
Ronnie D. Lankford**,** Jr Animal Experimentation Is Vital for Medical Research" by Foundation for Biomedical Research. Animal Experimentation.

===Gauthier NC=== 
Valley Doubles

**Mutual Benefit is Only Source of Moral rules**
Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.

**Only Contractarianism Non-Circular**
Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.

**Rational Agents Consent to MBA**
Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.

**Identity is Contingent**
Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.

**Contractarianism Excludes Animals**
Peter Carruthers [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Maryland], “The Animals Issue”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.philosophy.umd.edu/Faculty/pcarruthers/The%20Animals%20Issue.pdf]]</span>

**Can't Be part of Moral Community**
Carl Cohen “The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research” The New England Journal of Medicine. Massachusetts Medical Society. 1986


===Obligations NC=== 
Valley round 3 and Octas
**Reciprocity Source of Rights Claims**
Scruton, Roger. "Animal Rights." City Journal (2000). Web. 22 Aug. 2011. <http://www.city-journal.org/html/10_3_urbanities-animal.html>. Freelance writer and philosopher. Currently a visiting professor at Oxford University, part-time professor of philosophy at St Andrews, and scholar at the American Enterprises Institute

**Communal Behavior Impossible for Animals**
Carl Cohen “The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research” The New England Journal of Medicine. Massachusetts Medical Society. 1986

===HIV/AIDS DA=== 
Valley Rnd 5
This is on an flash drive that I left at school. I'll get the cites up when I get the drive back

===Econ DA=== 
Valley Rnd 5
This is on an flash drive that I left at school. I'll get the cites up when I get the drive back

===Random Arguments=== 

Valley Doubles vs Hockaday

**Forcing Existential Negative Bad**
Philip A. Pecorino. Logician and Professor of Philosophy “The Burden of Proof” 2001

==Theory== 
===T-Nontextual Assumptions Bad=== 
Valley Doubles vs. Hockaday

I can't remember the exact wording of the Interp but the shell was about why the AC assumptions needed a textual link to be fair. The violation was linked to the interp about why we need to assume that all humans have rights.

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 


==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Castle Doctrine AC=== 
Berkeley Round 4, Doubles

Accept debatable Aff interps
clarify in CX
On Balance
U.S. Spec
Skep Affirms
//Raz, Joseph. Permissions and Supererogation. American Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 12, No. 2 (Apr., 1975) pp. 161-168//
No Fiat
Presume Aff

**We have no way of verifying the existence of morality in nature, which precludes us from making objective moral evaluations without appealing to an unverifiable explanation of morality.**
John Collier [History and Philosophy of Science University of Melbourne Parkville, Victoria Australia ] “Evolutionary Naturalism and the Objectivity of Morality” Biology and Philosophy, 1993
Furthermore, a transcendent … moral activity (Ruse 1984, p. 177).

**Chains of moral reasoning cannot reach valid conclusions without terminating in subjective assertions.**
Macintyre, Alasdair, (After Virtue, [[http://undpress.nd.edu/|undpress.nd.edu]], 1992)
The most influential... by adopting them

**Also, There is no objective moral truth and No objective statement of moral truth can give normative reasons for why individuals ought to follow moral claims. Only shared agreements give rise to ethics since they provide the ground for making judgment based upon mutual expectation.** (Gilbert Harman. “Moral Relativism Defended”, January 1975. Duke university press)
We make inner judgment…act as they do.

**However, Agreements to unite the independent existences of individuals create moral knowledge by establishing one common realm in which agents act not as disconnected entities, but interactive members of a governed system. This means moral knowledge is derived from the agreements we artificially construct with others, resolving the challenge of subjectivism.**
Kelsen, Hans “Absolutism and Relativism in Philosophy and Politics”, The American Political Science Review, 1948
The subjectivistic character.... of the individuals.

**Only contracts resolve the naturalistic fallacy by defining the rights of individuals in their natural states.**
Parrish, Rick. “Derrida’s Economy of Violence in Hobbes’ Social Contract” Theory & Event 7:4
Hobbes seems to… agreeing to it.

**And, Only legal systems represent agreements between individual since social forms are the only objective basis of moral judgment.**
Batnitzky, Leora “A Seamless Web? John Finnis and Joseph Raz on Practical Reason and the Obligation to Obey the Law” Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 15, No.
While it is… from the rule.

**And, Even present an absolute good in nature, legal institutions still form the basis of moral rules to respect the worth of the other agents who have invested their trust in the agreement**
Ripstein, Arthur, University of Toronto Law Professor. Kant on Law and Justice. Pg. 14)
A contract is not ….the other person.

**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">W</span>****eiand v. State confirms the right of a victim to use deadly force under the Castle Doctrine.** Orr
J Douglas A. Orr une, 2000 Volume LXXIV, No. 6 “Weiand v. State and Battered Spouse Syndrome: The Toothless Tigress Can Now Roar” [[https://www.floridabar.org/DIVCOM/JN/JNJournal01.nsf/0/eedd58c673ec712885256adb005d6306?OpenDocument&Click=]]
Part three of this...self-defense’s duty to retreat.

**This includes co-inhabitants of a dwelling.** Suk

Jeannie Suk, THE TRUE WOMAN: SCENES FROM THE LAW OF SELF-DEFENSE, Assistant Professor of Law, Harvard Law School, [[http://www.law.harvard.edu/students/orgs/jlg/vol312/237-276.pdf]]
State v. Thomas... to flee to safety

**The law presumes on the side of self-defense, precluding proportionality and immanency requirements.** Suk2
First, in the home, the.... sued in tort.

**And, deadly force is consistent with the universal applicability condition of general self-defense law**. Ewing:
Charles Patrick Ewing. “Psychological Self-Defense: A Proposed Justification for Battered Women Who Kill.” Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 14, No. 6. (Dec., 1990), pp. 579-594
Perhaps one of … the same circumstances.

**And, a victim’s use of deadly force is considered justifiable homicide**. Wright:
Wright, Nancy law professor at Santa Clara Law School, “Voice for the Voiceless: The Case for Adopting the "Domestic Abuse Syndrome" for Self Defense Purposes for All Victims of Domestic Violence Who Kill Their Abusers”, Criminal Law Brief, Volume 4, 2009
Self-defense, in the...the criminal act."

==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]