----
----
----
=for all jan/feb cite requests email me at [[mailto:paigemackenzie@gmail.com|paigemackenzie@gmail.com]] or sarah.= 
but DON'T facebook message me because i won't respond to those with cites or maybe ever.
if you want cites, email me.

= = 


I'm also happy to send you cat pictures with those cites.




=CPS Nov/Dec 2011:= 



===ac of aid=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I affirm. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">To assist</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> means to support or aid. (Merriam Webster) [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/assist]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The **Affirmative** **burden** is to prove that a moral obligation to assist people in need exists. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I **value** **morality**,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> **standard** of maintaining consistency with universalizability. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">First, Jollimore </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">explains Kant’s categorical imperative test</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Jollimore, Troy, "Impartiality", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/impartiality/>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">A different approach … **__happens to be involved__**.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Pettit 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> continues:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Philip Pettit, “Non-Consequentialism and Universalizability” The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 50, 2000.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">In passing, a….do the swimming).</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Next, all human beings have equal moral worth and should be treated equally. Andre and Velasquez: </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Andre, Claire and Velasquez, Manuel. “Justice and Fairness” //Issues in Ethics// Volume 3, No. 2, Spring 1990.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The foundations of …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">dignity is violated.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Finally, we should prefer universalizability as a standard for morality because it creates equal moral burdens for all people, thus respecting each person’s dignity. Pettit 2:</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Every prescription as…or universal kind.</span>__**

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Pettit 3 continues:</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Pettit, Philip. “Universalizability Without Utilitarianism” Oxford University Press, 1987.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Consider how I…not come easily.</span>//
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I contend that assisting people in need is an act of beneficence, which is a universalizable moral law.</span>**
# **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Assisting people in need is an act of beneficence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Herman</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> 1 “The Practice of Moral Judgment” Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, London, England. pp 337</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">This negative answer…the good will.</span>


# **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Non-beneficence is inconsistent with universalizability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Herman 2 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">“The Scope of Moral Requirement” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 30, 2000.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The Groundwork pattern…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">are to act.</span>

# **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Beneficence is consistent with universalizability, because helping others benefits both the people in need and ourselves.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Herman 3</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Barbara (The Scope of Moral Requirement , Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 30, No. 3 (Summer, 2001), pp. 227-256)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Having brought own- care and concern.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Round 2 AC</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">No brightline doesn’t mean reject</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">T. Edward **Damer** (Professor of Philosophy and chair of the Division Visual and Performing Arts at Emory and Henry College) //Attacking Faulty Reasoning//, 2000</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“fallacy consist in…a good argument” </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">naturalism good</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">Papineau</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">, David, "Naturalism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2009 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2009/entries/naturalism/>.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“any such non-naturalist…knowledge of them”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">naturalism good</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh. No date. [[http://www.pitt.edu/%7Egbs4/In%20Defense%20of%20the%20Practical%20Imagination.pdf|http://www.pitt.edu/~gbs4/In%20Defense%20of%20the%20Practical%20Imagination.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“Now the ought…about good people”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">self interest motivates</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">MERCER</span>
<span class="FootnoteCharacters" style="font-family: Calibri;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">In Defence of Weak Psychological Egoism.: Mark Mercer. Erkenntnis (1975-), Vol. 55, No. 2 (2001), pp. 217-23</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“to begin to…unfathomable and inexplicable”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">non circular</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">[1]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Campbell, Richmond. //Review: Gauthier's Theory of Morals by Agreement//. The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 38, No. 152, pp. 343-364. July 1988. <[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2220134]]></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“the second advantage…prior moral assumption”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">contractarianism</span>
<span class="FootnoteCharacters" style="font-family: Calibri;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“morals by agreement…assumption against morality.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Burden-prove consistent with internal motivation of individuals to have obligations to assist others in need</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Want help</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">David Gauthier. “Contractarianism” Contractariansm/Contractualism. Edited by Stephen Darwall. Blackwell Publishing, 2003</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Consider this example…so would Smith”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Empirically true</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">David A. **Hyman** (Professor of Law and Medicine, University of Illinois), “Rescue Without Law: An Empirical Perspective on the Duty to Rescue” in Texas Law Review, February 2006. Page: Lexis-Nexis</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> “to summarize briefly…not the law”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Want help</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Alan Gewirth. “THE GOLDEN RULE RATIONALIZED” MIDWEST STUDIES IN PHILOSOPHY, I11(1978)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“this result can…their generic rights”</span>

Always Prepared AC

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Value morality</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The aff may parametricize at meadows 2011 if specify category of individual</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Side bias</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Reasonable ground</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Neg adaptation</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Disad links</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, identity is not natural and based in something inherent in the individual. Individual identity is always subject to contestation. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Lawrence J. Hatab “Prospects For A Democratic Agon: </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Why We Can Still Be Nietzscheans” The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 24, 2002 132-147</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, the only thing that we have to appeal to is identity and things in the world, as there exists nothing but the world. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Papineau, David, "Naturalism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2009 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2009/entries/naturalism/>.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Even if there is any normativity in the resolution, it is imperative for moral obligations to be consistent with individual’s chosen identity. If it were not, normativity is impossible. Gregory Strom[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12px;">Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh. No date. [[http://www.pitt.edu/%7Egbs4/In%20Defense%20of%20the%20Practical%20Imagination.pdf|http://www.pitt.edu/~gbs4/In%20Defense%20of%20the%20Practical%20Imagination.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moral arguments always terminate in assertions.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Alasdair </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">MacIntyre</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> “After Virtue” 1984 Notre Dame Press</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the affirmative burden is to prove that it is consistent with the identities that individuals have chosen for themselves to assist people in need. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The affirmative’s advocacy is that Boy Scouts have a moral obligation to help others at all times in the United States in 2011. The Boy Scout Oath writes: </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9.33333px;">Boy Scout Oath, Law, Motto and Slogan and the Outdoor Code</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And all other human beings are inclined to save people. HYMAN</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">David A. Hyman (Professor of Law and Medicine, University of Illinois), “Rescue Without Law: An Empirical Perspective on the Duty to Rescue” in Texas Law Review, February 2006. Page: Lexis-Nexis</span>







===<span style="font-family: Calibri;">cool neg</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I negate. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The resolution is a question of **a priori reasoning**, using the philosophical not debate terminology. Thus the **affirmative**</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">burden</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> is to prove that all people have a moral obligation to assist the needy. **Russell** explains:</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Russell, Bruce, "A Priori Justification and Knowledge", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/apriori/></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">But why think…</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">a priori justification.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The **negative** **burden** is to prove that obligation does not exist on this a priori level. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">I contend</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> that because our conception of morality relies on our understandings and environments, there exists no absolute moral obligation to assist the needy. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">A) Our conception of the world and what constitutes rationality is relative. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Harman 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">, Gilbert. “Is there a single true morality” Explaining Value, August 2000.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The relativist’s reply…not recognize it. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Harman 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">, Gilbert. “Moral Relativism Defended” The Philosophical Review,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Vol. 84, No. 1 (Jan 1975), pp. 20.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The vague nature</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">…with each other.</span>





**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Harman,</span>//**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> Gilbert. “Moral Relativism Defended” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 84, No. 1 (Jan 1975), pp 3-22. </span>//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Indeed**__, it is__**</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">…I am defending.</span>//



**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Wong, </span>//**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">David B. Moral Relativity, University of California Press, 1984</span>//

**//__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The “ethical” dimension…</span>__//**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">of all agents”. </span>//



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">B) Because of the variations of cultures and societies, we will never determine one absolute moral theory: </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Hales</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">, Steven D. “Moral Relativism and Evolutionary Psychology” </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Perfect human reasoners…</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">for our needs.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">C) Because there exists no absolute moral theory that applies to all individuals, there cannot exist a universal moral obligation. Hare explains the situation of moral obligations within a community with the same moral values: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Hare, RM. “Universal Prescriptivism” //A Companion to Ethics//, Blackwell Publishing, 1993.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">We are now…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">in that society.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Finding Nemo NC</span>

The resolutional value is morality.

Because individual autonomy is a prerequisite to having a moral obligation, demonstrating that affirming harms autonomy negates.


First, Professor John Christman explains autonomy’s central role in moral theory:

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">John **Christman** (Professor of Philosophy, Pennsylvania State University), "Autonomy in Moral and Political Philosophy", //<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)</span>//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/autonomy-moral/>.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“put most simply…potentially vulnerable people”</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“autonomy can play…while paying heed”</span>


James Fishkin explains that general principles of moral obligation lead to moral overload.
James S. **Fishkin** (Chair in International Communication, Professor of Communication and Political Science, Stanford University) //The Limits of Obligation//, 1982, p. 153, p 48-49, p170
“if a moral…of individual morality”

General obligations are not limited by borders. Fishkin continues:
“our general principles…to the world”

General obligations ultimately overwhelm individuals with required acts.
“furthermore we can…become great enough”

Fishkin concludes that we must give up General obligations or lose individual morality. He writes:


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“either we must…cynicism and hypocrisy”</span>