[[toc]]
For aff cites, email [[mailto:amresar@mcdonogh.org|amresar@mcdonogh.org]]
neg cites, email [[mailto:vhmouli@mcdonogh.org|vhmouli@mcdonogh.org]]
=Affirmative= 
= = 
==Big Lex - Climate Denial Aff== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Racial Contract is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract3

Nationally, within these racial polities, ..... intracontinental racial exploitation.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">BARDNT</span> Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization <span style="font-size: 16px;">1991</span>
Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge
to White America; p.31-33
Racism can be expressed ...see this power at work.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CFR 9/25/11</span> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special cAorrespondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, [[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap]]the_americanallergyto_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader
NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises on algae and prehistoric turquoise beads, ...the habitat that sustains us."

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mooney ’11</span>, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” [[http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial]])
They’re the conservative ... to fan the flames.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Climate denial has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding crucial earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests</span>
Patrick <span style="font-size: 16px;">Gleick</span> 8/31/<span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]] [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]
By pretending that the science .... discredit the science.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The effects of global warming strike at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an obligation to these populations</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Minority Rights Groups International April 2008</span> [[http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf]]
[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]
Climate change is just beginning to be ....than any other nation.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The consequences of this discrimination is equivalent to an ongoing genocide – climate deniers risk the lives of hundreds of millions</span>
Clive <span style="font-size: 16px;">Hamilton</span> November, 16th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2009</span> Hamilton: Denying the coming global holocaust [[http://www.crikey.com.au/2009/11/16/hamilton-denying-the-coming-climate-holocaust/]] [Professor of Public Ethics at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (CAPPE)[1] and the Vice-Chancellor's Chair in Public Ethics at Charles Sturt University.[2] He is the Founder and former Executive Director of the The Australia Institute. Overseas Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholar and completed his Doctorate at the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex. Senior Visiting Fellow of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of Yale University. Professor at Oxford.]
Climate sceptics resent being .... nothing they will die.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">These systematic harms of structural violence must come before linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Abu-Jamal 98</span> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])
We live, equally immersed,... every decade, throughout the world. [Gilligan, p. 196]

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MEMMI</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span>
Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against racism .... the stakes are irresistible.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">As a stance against institutional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Alyssa and I advocate the following: </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its earth observation capabilities. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The current struggle against global warming represents the invisibility of race at its finest – the environmental movement has exemplified modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive</span>
Tim <span style="font-size: 16px;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege [[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]] [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]
But as troubling as colorblindness... the fight for survival.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MANDELL</span> Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project <span style="font-size: 16px;">2k8</span> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]
[*297] Fear of eroding the hierarchies... of the traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." n52

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dialogue and communication matters – connecting the risks of climate change to issues of social justice is critical to connect to new constituencies </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 14-16)
The relationship between the climate problem ... beyond message delivery and toward dialogue and engagement.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">This shifts the conditions of the debate – current focus in relation to climate change has only dealt with its </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 124-127)
The emerging climate-justice movement shifts .... ethics, human rights, and social justice.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">A racialized discussion of key, traditional technical strategies of risk calculus are embedded within justifications of white supremacy and fail to mobilize action</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 130)
Risk communication research over ... learned from both

<span style="font-size: 16px;">It’s not a question of solvency, but one of exposition – we must constantly discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gore, ’11</span> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] [[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]]
Gore: Yeah if Michael Jordan ... that out there, absolutely.
= = 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MDA Aff - MBA </span>= 
Contention 1 is Grand Strategy 2.0

<span class="cite">US maritime strategy is collapsing now from budget cuts and a weaker fleet – the impact is global instability – US naval power is the proximate check on global conflict escalation</span>
<span class="cite">Whiteneck and Clark, ’11</span> [Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02|Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296]]</span>, SM]

In light of global economic and strategic realities…<span class="underline"> it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

MDA cements global cooperation and creates global partnerships over naval security – that allows the US to cooperatively address maritime security
<span class="cite">Truver, ’11</span> [Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/]]</span>, Accessed 11/23/11]
A GLOBAL FOCUS IS NEEDED, TOO <span class="underline">From the US perspective… transnational threats and securing peaceful use of the maritime commons.</span>”
||   ||   ||   ||


Cooperation is the lynchpin of effective naval power in a world of budget cuts
<span class="underline">Moore 10 [Charles C. Moore, Naval Aviator, Western Pacific Experience, has a Masters from the US Army War College and Georgetown, currently commanding office at the Naval Air Station in Meridian. "Revitalizing the Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, 2007, [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/2011summer/Moore.pdf]]]</span>
Summary The Cooperative Strategy remains a relevant foundational strategy document. …<span class="underline"> these crucial decisions being made by others.</span>

<span class="cite">Increased economic pressures and growing deficits mean US global retrenchment is inevitable</span>
<span class="cite">Mandelbaum, ’10</span> [Michael Mandelbaum is the Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, PhD from Harvard Foreign Affairs. May/June 2010, “Overpowered?”, SM]
Whatever the quality of the analysis underlying it, however, Preble's vision of a more modest U.S. foreign policy, which Matlock and Gallarotti share, is destined to be adopted. <span class="underline">The United States will do less</span>, perhaps much less, <span class="underline">beyond its borders in the next two decades than it has in the last two</span>. This <span class="underline">retrenchment …</span> consequences of the United States' having too little of it.

US strategic retrenchment is inevitable and Global naval cooperation is critical to manage it – allows to manage global stability in a world without a global US presence and avoiding the flaws of offshore balancing by maintaining US influence
<span class="cite">Hoffman, ’08</span> [November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, SM]

<span class="underline">Our maritime forces have to be designed to support an overall … bind them to an international system and a set of rules that benefit all</span>.”

Disengagement causes great power nuclear conflict - security breakdowns.
<span class="cite">Monteiro 2012 </span>
Nuno M., Assistant professor of Political Science at Yale University, Unrest Assured, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Unrest_Assured.pdf]]</span>
In sum, <span class="underline">disengagement opens the door to regional competition… as well as in Europe and the Middle East</span>.

Contention 2 is Sea Security

Space based MDA capabilities key to check terror on the sea
Allan, 11.
John W, Vice President, Sales & Marketing at exactEarth Ltd (Current), <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">exactEarth have a constellation of satellites that monitor and track vessels around the world using AIS. Its game changing technology for both the Operational Maritime and Defence and Intelligence communities.</span> “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security”, 3/23, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.geospatialworld.net/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=21883]]</span>, Accessed 11/23/11, Scott
Few security commentators would dispute <span class="underline">the geospatial …</span> quantum leap forward in maritime surveillance capability.

Space is the foundation of adequate anti-terror MDA capabilities and intelligence is key
<span class="cite">Singh 10</span> (Jaswinder, Master of Science in Defense Analysis, Indian Navy Captain, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in Territorial Sea” 12/25 Mkoo)
In today’s information age, where information travels …<span class="underline"> interdict small boat heading for terror attacks in these waters. </span>

Maritime terrorism highly likely – acquisition is feasible and they’ll attack ports
<span class="cite">Konkel 05</span> (Todd, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 2005, “Container Security: Preventimng a Nuclear Catastrophe.” irps.ucsd.edu/assets/004/5372.pdf Mkoo)
<span class="underline">A fundamental factor contributing to the threat of a container-based …</span> years to improve security at all 361 U.S. seaports. 2

Collapses the economy – global embargo
Flynn, 3. (Stephen, Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.), Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3-20-03, “The Fragile state of container security,” Testimony before the Senate, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]]</span> Mkoo)
A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman …<span class="underline">as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade. </span>

Global nuclear war
<span class="cite">Harris and Burrows ‘9</span> PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[@http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]

Of course, the report encompasses more than economics … both <span class="underline">within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

Independently, retaliation from a terrorist attack leads to nuclear war
<span class="cite">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online Mkoo)
A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear …<span class="underline">This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint. </span>

Terrorists will attack the Strait of Malacca now, impact is global oil shocks, trade collapse, Japan, South Korea, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and US economic collapse
<span class="cite">Luft and Korin 4</span> (Gal, Exec Dir, Institute for Analysis of Global Security and Anne, Dir, Policy and Strategic Planning, IAGS, Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec, Lexis, [[http://www.jmhinternational.com/news/news/selectednews/files/2004/20041201_20041101_ForeignAffairs_TerrorismGoesToSea.pdf]] Mkoo)
<span class="underline">Pirates and Islamist terrorist groups have long operated … but that of the United States as well.</span>

South Korean economic decline causes global nuclear war
<span class="cite">Richardson 06</span> (Corey, Asia Times writer, “South Korea Must Choose Sides,” 9/9/06 [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]] Mkoo)
<span class="underline">A Korea faced with an economic dilemma … Koguryo dispute between Korea and China. </span>

Japanese economic decline causes hyper-nationalism and nuclear war with China
<span class="cite">Elliott 02</span> (Larry, The Guardian writer, “Finance: Defenceless Japan awaits Typhoon,” 2/11/02 [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/money/2002/feb/11/business.globalrecession]] Mkoo)
Even so, <span class="underline">the … bigger</span> (and nuclear) <span class="underline">neighbour.</span>


Plan
The United States federal government should substantially increase its space based Maritime Domain Awareness capabilities beyond the earth’s mesosphere.


Contention 3 is Solvency
MDA satellites are critical to allow for global awareness – promotes global cooperation
<span class="cite">Earles, 10</span>
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11
The potential for international collaboration … system characteristics will be developed in this and the subsequent articles in this series.


Satellites AIS systems solve technical problems with MSSIS now – international collaborative effort for MDA that exists now.
<span class="cite">Earles, 10.</span>
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11
<span class="underline">The Maritime Safety and Security Information …</span>, however, as seen in Figure 2.
= = 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DSCOVR Aff</span>= 

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#DSCOVR Aff-Greenhill Rd 1 - DSCOVR]]Bronx - DSCOVR</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.</span>**

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Contention One is Solar Storms**</span>__
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Initially note --- multiple solar flares are coming in the status quo – the Sun is reaching its most active phase</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moskowitz 8/11</span>** [Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,”<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]]</span>]
Solar flares like the huge one that erupted on the sun ……. researchers said.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The magnitude of these will be huge – massive solar storms make a global disaster inevitable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Derbyshire 11</span>** [David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]]</span>]
The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm' that could knock out communications satellites, ground aircraft and trigger blackouts - causing hundreds of billions of pounds of damage, scientists say. Astronomers today warned that mankind is now more vulnerable to a major solar storm than at any time in ….. the U.S. space agency said.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The failure of Advanced Composition Explorer or ACE is creating a huge operational gap in our ability to predict solar storms – DSCOVR is key to solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lautenbacher 10</span>** [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]]</span>]
In addition to events such as the Haitian earthquake and global warming, …. DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ACE cannot withstand a super storm and will fail to warn us</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CARV 5/18</span>** [Concept Activity Research Vault, 5/18/2011 develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, Satellite outages now critical data problem,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]]</span>]
The Advanced Composition Explorer….. its NASA calculated life expectance.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, early warning is critical to prevent the storms worst impacts, and ACE is our best satellite now</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phillips 10</span>** [Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]]</span>]
Earth and space are ….. very seriously indeed."

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DSCOVR solves – its unique position gives it the ability to anticipate solar storms</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clark 11</span>** [Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission”<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]]</span>]
From that location, Earth science sensors on DSCOVR would have a constant view of the day side of the planet. But the L1 point is more commonly used by solar science missions, and it's an ideal location for a spacecraft to sniff out geomagnetic storms before they reach Earth. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would manage the DSCOVR mission as ….. work on the project in 2001.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A solar storm would destroy the economy in two ways</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Blackouts</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Butt 10</span>** [Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span>]
For the reasons outlined …..and lengthy restoration times, and chronic shortages for multiple years are possible [25].

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They are key to the economy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bryan 03</span>** Jay, The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec), August 19, SECTION: Business; Opinion on the Blackout; Pg. B1, HEADLINE: Power grids vital in information age: "Just a few days could theoretically take economic growth ... right down to zero" l/n
This worsened ….. indispensable in an information-age economy.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. It destroys satellites</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">OECD 11’</span>** [OECD/ IFP Future project on “Future Global Shocks”, January 14th 2011, “Geomagnetic Storms”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/57/25/46891645.pdf]]</span>]
One of the consequences with ……significant replacement challenge.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Satellite malfunctions collapse the global economy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>.
Commercially, the economy of the …….Chevron gas stations without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span>** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may …..debate and deserves more attention.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Contention Two is Operational Data__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in military response capabilities – decapitates effective interventionism to check the impacts of climate change</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>** [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]</span>]
Climate change will likely exacerbate ….. less well prepared to meet future challenges.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>** [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]</span>]
Given the proliferation of new tools …..secu­rity professionals need to ask.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate change causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tussing 2008</span>** [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]]</span>]
The impetus behind these efforts on the ….. are taking shape in every theater.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tussing 2008</span>** [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]]</span>]
In emulation of the American effort….. solely in the camp of the civil authorities.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith 2007</span>** [Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]]</span>]
Deployment …. engage military forces in a reactive manner.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deutsch ’02</span>** [Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>]
The Rabid Tiger …… feel compelled to follow their client states.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No offense – warming is inevitable status quo CO2 emissions and feedbacks guarantee it</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span>** (Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]]</span>)
Over the 20th century, …. carbon dioxide reached.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DSCOVR solves its critical to calibrate climate models</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Williams 2008</span>** [Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]]</span>]
Obama’s first presidential pardon should be to free a political prisoner, held without trial, rhyme nor reason, in solitary confinement in an air conditioned prison box somewhere outside Washington, DC. The ….. with giving environmentalism a great boost in the 1970s.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That solves any gaps in status quo capabilities – DSCOVR’s position makes it key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002</span>** [Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]]</span>]
The L1 and L2 Lagrange points ….. gaps left by other networks and spaceborne platforms”

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan allows for a global intergrated observational system</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Valero 2007</span>**** [Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]</span>]
The L-1 and L-2 Earth-……. LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.
=Negative= 
=== === 
===India Politics DA=== 
**India’s Congress party will win the February elections in Uttar Pradesh now**
**Rediff, 1-4-2012**
(“Inhouse survey puts Congress-RLD ahead, BJP close 2nd"
http://www.rediff.com/news/slide-show/slide-show-1-congress-will-emerge-as-the-winner-in-up-polls-says-survey/20120104.htm)

The combine of … says the survey.

**ndia is outcompeting the US now**
**Rediff Business, 1-11-2010**
(“India's aerospace industry to boost economy” [[http://business.rediff.com/column/2010/jan/11/guest-india-aerospace-industry-to-boost-economy.htm]])
The aerospace industry …absorb massive investments.

**If the US out-competes India, it will spark anti-Americanism**
**Wimbush, 2006**
(S. Enders, Sr VP of Hudson Institute, “STRATEGIC INDIA”, [[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/StrategicIndia-Final-Wimbush.pdf]])
Under this scenario… worsen U.S.-Indian ties.

**Opposition parties will seize the plan to drum up anti-Americanism and garner votes with Indian Muslims**
**Shenoy 2008**
(T. V. R., Researcher, Journalist-India First Foundation, “Congress has Left in debt trap” [[http://www.rediff.com/cms/print.jsp?docpath=/news/2008/mar/18flip.htm]])
The Left Front …displease at this moment.

**Indian Muslims key to the Uttar Pradesh elections**
**Wall Street Journal 1-4-2012**
(Note: the abbreviation UP in this evidence refers to Uttar Pradesh, “Politics Journal: Parties Vie for Upper Hand in Uttar Pradesh”
[[http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2012/01/04/politics-journal-parties-vie-for-upper-hand-in-uttar-pradesh/]])
Guess who the … than 50 seats on its own.

**Congress Party victory in the Uttar Pradesh election is key to Kashmir peace**
**Kashmir Times, 12-9-2011 (LexisNexis)**
UPA government's preoccupation … of its future leadership.

**The Kashmir conflict will escalate to nuclear war and would draw in the US and China**
**Margolis, 2010**
(Eric, International Author and Policy Analyst for New York Time and International Herald Tribune, “Kashmir: Three Minutes From Nuclear War”,
[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/margolis/margolis206.html]])
In my first book… the entire globe.

=== === 

=== === 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fiscal Framework Moody's Credit Spending DA</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Fiscal Framework Moody's Credit Spending DA-1NC Shell]]1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Debt Deal fiscal framework will succeed now and create a compromise of spending cuts– multiple structural factors guarantee it</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Ragusa, ’9-8</span>** [9/8/11, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/author/jordanragusa/|Jordan Ragusa]]</span>, “Reasons to be Optimistic about the Super Committee” ,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/09/08/reasons-to-be-optimistic-about-the-super-committee/]]</span>, SM]
The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction—a.k.a. the “super committee”—…… So those are some of my optimistic thoughts on the super committee.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan breaks that framework – creates huge spending that strains the deficit</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Hsu 9</span>**[Feng, Ph.D. and Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group, and Ken Cox, Ph.D. and Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]]</span>]
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">There arelimited financial resources from the U.S. government, which is now struggling with unprecedented high budget deficit and</span> is confronted with extremely <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">costly ongoing wars</span>. So <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">it is</span> nearly <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">irresponsible to impose on the nation</span> and its people <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">an Apollo-like, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">huge spending</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> lunar-based space exploration program</span>. There is neither significant (or short-term) science value nor space exploration and operation value in revisiting an earth-orbit destination that was explored by mankind four decades ago. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Given today's</span> decimated American<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">economic condition</span>, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">we must adapt a</span> concurrent and comprehensive <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">space exploration</span> and space development <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">strategy that is</span> not only<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">affordable</span> but can be mutually supported.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The signal of a fiscal discipline framework has appeased Moody’s but they are watching to whether or not it will succeed – failure to curtail spending and maintain status quo plans for cuts triggers a downgrade</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Panchuk, ‘8-3</span>** [8-3-11, Kerri Panchuk, “Moody's affirms US triple-A rating, but risks remain”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.housingwire.com/2011/08/03/moodys-affirms-us-triple-a-rating-but-risks-remain]]</span>, SM]
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Moody's</span> Investors Service (<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://finance.yahoo.com/q?s=MCO|MCO]]</span>: 27.04 -3.19%) <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">confirmed the U.S. government's triple-A bond rating …… </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">this could affect the rating negatively</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">," Moody's said.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Further downgrades risks a spiral in interest rates that collapses investor confidence</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Goldwein 8-11-2011** [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Marc, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, The Atlantic, Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America,[[http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">What are the consequences of further downgrades? ……. except with no one available to bail out the U.S. government</span>.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That specifically collapses US economic leadership</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Raman 8-3-11** [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Manikandan, International Business Times, U.S. Reaches Debt Deal: Is it Enough to Sustain AAA Rating?,[[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/191564/20110803/us-debt-ceiling-spending-cuts-debt-deal-aaa-rating-barack-obama-president-s-p-fitch-moodys-treasury.htm]]]</span>
But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the key question is whether the raising of the debt ceiling is enough to keep the country's AAA rating…… </span>further fiscal consolidation measures are not adopted in 2013 and the economic outlook deteriorates significantly.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic leadership prevents nuclear war from economic collapse—leadership key to resilience</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Mandelbaum 2005</span>** – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005
[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]
Although <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the spread of nuclear weapons, with the corresponding increase in the likelihood …… </span>A <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">world without the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;"> [</span>Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict.</span> ……. This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Super Committee DA</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Super Committee DA-1NC Shell]]1NC Shell</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Debt Deal Super Committee compromise coming now to create deficit reduction – multiple structural factors make it likely, but new partisan fights, specifically over lobbies, can derail it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Ragusa, ’9-8</span> [9/8/11, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/author/jordanragusa/|Jordan Ragusa]]</span>, “Reasons to be Optimistic about the Super Committee” ,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/09/08/reasons-to-be-optimistic-about-the-super-committee/]]</span>, SM]
The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction—a.k.a. the “super committee”—will hold its first official meeting today (September 8th) at 10:30am. Today’s meeting of the committee is an organizational one, with members debating and approving the committee’s rules and procedures. Any student of Congress knows that rules and procedures are critical, so this is an important first step. We will no doubt have a better understanding of the committee in the coming weeks (the first formal hearing is set for Tuesday the 13th). What follows are a few of my preliminary thoughts on the super committee. For a variety of reasons that I spell out in the following pages, I’m optimistic about the eventual outcome; I believe <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">they will find a meaningful compromise</span> (a bold claim, perhaps, given the recent debt ceiling fight). My thoughts on the super committee are largely informed by my opinions on the operation of conference committees. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Conference committees</span>, after all, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">share many important features with the super committee</span>. Both are joint ad-hoc committees. Both are comprised of members selected by party leaders in consultation with the jurisdictional committee chairmen. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Both operate in a context marked by </span>the competing forces of party discipline and seeking<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> compromise. Both are comprised (primarily) of policy experts.</span> And <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">both have the power to make unamendable proposals to their respective chambers</span>. The first reason I’m optimistic about a successful outcome has to do with the norms and expectations in which the super committee will likely operate. As far as explanatory factors go, norms have fallen out of favor with contemporary political science(what with the inherent measurement problems and all). But in this case I <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">think the norms and expectations of the committee provide a powerful motivation for members to seek compromises</span>(that is, vote contrary to their partisan and/or ideological preferences). This is an argument which has been made in the past with respect to conference committees. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.amazon.com/Politics-Finance-John-F-Manley/dp/B0036LOV96|Manley]]</span> (1970, 271) noted that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the “overriding ethic” of conference committees is “bargaining, give-and-take, compromise, horse-trading, conciliation, and malleability by all concerned.”</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.getcited.org/pub/102710086|Longley and Oleszek]]</span>(1989, 2) maintain that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">conference committees are “‘the epitome of legislative politics’ in terms of such processes as negotiation, bargaining, and compromise.</span>” And <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract;jsessionid=9B956D816A316C80C385E00A3103058F.tomcat1?fromPage=online&aid=6275928|Ferejohn]]</span> (1975, 1035) noted that “<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">recognition of the cooperative behavior between the House and Senate conferees can lead to a much different interpretation of data on conference decision-making.”</span> This is a point I have echoed in some of my own work on conference outcomes. For example, if we use multivariate spatial modeling to compare pre- and post-conference roll-call patterns, what we uncover is that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the process of resolving bicameral disputes is inherently multidimensional (rather than a typical left-right conflict) and that the primary explanatory dimension is one of policy compromise</span> (either greater log-rolls or greater bill moderation). This suggests that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">party discipline </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">breaks down</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">–to an extent–in these kinds of situations.</span> So in short, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">I think members of the super committee expect a priori to cut unpopular deals and this cognitive script will get the committee through the day.</span> Let’s not forget, after all, that the so-called super committee was created for this very reason. These joint ad-hoc committees have secured critical compromises as far back as the <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/08/04/a-long-history-of-super-committees-the-connecticut-compromise/|drafting of the Constitution]]</span> and, presumably, members of Congress have an idea about how these kinds of committees typically operate. A challenge to the prior view is that the party leaders’ selection power is paramount in these situations. A <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://prq.sagepub.com/content/60/4/593.short|paper by Lazarus and Monroe]]</span> (2007), for example, shows us that non-jurisdictional lawmakers are often chosen to serve in a conference committee for the purpose of skewing policy outcomes in a direction favorable to their party (away from the chamber median). I agree with this view in principle (in fact I have some findings supporting it), though my work generally argues that pro-majority conference outcomes are muchrarer than compromise outcomes. But I think this question–though important–is moot in this particular case as <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://themonkeycage.org/blog/2011/08/11/mapping-the-super-committee/|Sarah Binder]]</span>, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://voteview.spia.uga.edu/blog/?p=2258|Keith Poole]]</span> and <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://enikrising.blogspot.com/2011/08/supercommittees-ideal-points.html|Seth Masket]]</span> have each shown that<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">members appointed to the super committee represent their chamber and party quite nicely </span>(in other words, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">ideology does not appear to be a deciding factor in who was selected</span>). I think this is a powerful signal as to the top-down pressures on the committee (where that pressure is, get a deal done). <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Even the staff selected to serve on the committee [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/2011/08/30/gIQAGRChqJ_story.html|have been praised]] for working constructively with both parties. Another reason I’m optimistic about the operation of the super committee has to do with expertise. </span>Quite simply, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">these members have been working on this issue for a while and are quite adept in this policy domain</span>. Two of the House and two of the Senate committee members—Chris Van Hollen, Jim Clyburn, Jon Kyl and Max Baucus—were on the Biden Committee. Xavier Becerra was on the Bowles-Simpson committee. John Kerry is a senior member of the finance committee. Rob Portman, the least senior member of the super committee, just so happens to be a former director of OMB. And Dave Camp is chairman of both Ways and Means and the Joint Committee on Taxation. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">This bounty of expertise is important because often it takes policy expertise and skilled negotiators to craft a workable compromise. Compromise is not easy, after all, in a Congress with few moderates.</span> Jim Clyburn, a Super Committee member, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/politics/july-dec11/supercommittee_08-11.html|mentioned]]</span> this point in a recent interview, noting that “despite all of this rhetoric, we have got a group of veterans here…you have got people who don’t have to do studying to reach a deal.” Finally, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the location of the status quo and the transaction costs incurred by the committee compels compromise as well.Should the committee fail, the $1.5 trillion in spending will be made up with across-the-board cuts</span>. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Those cuts are to be split evenly between defense and non-defense spending</span>. Though not as critical as failure on increasing the debt-ceiling, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the status quo facing the committee is sub-optimal for members of both parties, I suspect</span>. There is also the possibility that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">a bipartisan deal could increase confidence in our financial system while a failure could seriously upset global investment in U.S. financial assets</span>. Regarding transaction costs, the committee members have invested significant legislative resources in securing a deal. There have been, and will be, major “information” and “bargaining” costs involved in studying, negotiating, and drafting the final product. Failing to secure a deal would be very costly for these individual members. Such an outcome could come with a political price as well. So those are some of my optimistic thoughts on the super committee. There are reasons, of course, to be pessimistic about the committee. For example<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">, powerful lobbying and interest groups will no doubt push committee members in a direction other than compromise.</span> Some <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/06/us-healthcare-lobbyists-idUSTRE7855WT20110906|reports]]</span> even suggest that the health care industry would prefer a failure and the automatic spending cuts. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Partisan bickering, politicking and grandstanding is also likely. The question is </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">whether these forces are greater than the prior forces.</span> Stay tuned…

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The plan would spark that – any new additional spending has to go through the super committee process – guarantees partisan fights on finding cuts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Suderman, ‘8-17 </span>[<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/people/peter-suderman|Peter Suderman]]</span>, August 17, 2011, “<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/blog/2011/08/17/would-it-be-better-to-pull-the|Would It Be Better to Pull the Debt-Deal Trigger?]]</span>”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/blog/2011/08/17/would-it-be-better-to-pull-the]]</span>, SM]
In large part, that’s because we don’t know what the committee will actually recommend. It might, for example, include deficit reduction ideas that designed to allow Congress to get out of them years down the road. It might even include additional spending on longer unemployment benefits and an infrastructure bank. According to <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904253204576512840107978776.html?wpisrc=nl_wonk|The Wall Street Journal]]</span>, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the Obama administration looks ready to push for additional stimulus spending in the committee’s deficit package:</span> The White House is looking for ways to boost the sluggish economy and bring down unemployment that is now stuck above 9%. Mr. Obama, facing re-election next year, has been pushing Congress for months to adopt a variety of stimulus measures, some of which he could urge the committee to embrace. These include extending unemployment-insurance benefits and a payroll-tax cut for employees, which expire at year end and together cost more than $160 billion a year, and an infrastructure bank that could cost as much as $30 billion. The White House is also looking at a payroll-tax cut for employers, worth perhaps as much as roughly $110 billion, and other tax breaks for businesses of as much as $55 billion. Mr. Obama's recommendations could complicate the committee's task because the stimulus measures, by increasing government spending and reducing revenue, would worsen the deficit in the short term. Now, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">it’s </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">not likely</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> that additional stimulus spending </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">would get past the committee</span>: <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The Americans for Tax Reform pledge not to increase revenues </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">doesn’t outlaw additional spending</span>, but <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">it would mean that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">the spending would have to be offset by further cuts</span>. And <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">finding cuts that the committee’s Republican and Democratic members can both agree on will be tough enough as it is</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Space policy makes the magnitude of our link argument is __huge__ – finding funds for space policy creates fights – competing priorities make it difficult</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Handberg, 11</span> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]]</span>)
The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but on achieving another difficult goal such as going to Mars, a logical extension truly of the Apollo effort. Twice, the presidents Bush provided the presidential rationale, if not support, for achieving great things. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The Space Exploration Initiative</span> (SEI) in 1989 <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">and the Vision for Space Exploration</span> (VSE) <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">in 2004 were announced with great fanfare but neither survived the realities of congressional and presidential budgeting</span>. The VSE appeared on paper more realistic about funding, but its choices were draconian: the ISS and space shuttle were both to be sacrificed on the altar of the new program. The earlier SEI died quickly, so hard choices were not required, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">while the VSE in the form of the Constellation Program lingers on although its effective demise appears certain. The Obama Administration prefers another approach while the new Congress is likely more hostile to big ticket discretionary spending. If the Tea Party faction in the Republican House caucus means what it says, the future for Constellation or any other similar program is a dim one</span>. The reality is that the Apollo program, the SEI, and the VSE are examples in space terms of the home run approach. Such efforts confront the cruel but obvious reality that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the human spaceflight program is considered by the public and most of Congress to be a “nice to have,” but not a necessity when compared to other programs or national priorities.</span> Congressional support is narrow and constituency-driven (i.e. protect local jobs), which means <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">most in Congress only support the space program in the abstract.Big ticket items</span> or programs <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">are not a priority for most, given other priorities. </span>What happens is what can be loosely termed normal politics: a situation where human spaceflight remains a low priority on the national agenda. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Funding for bold new initiatives is going to be hard to come by even when the economy recovers and deficits are under control.</span> The home run approach has run its course at least for a time; now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.

Failure causes a depression
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Ornstein 9/14</span>/11 [Norman, resident fellow at AEI, Deficit Panel Could Change Economic World, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/104137]]</span> jg]
Lachman is one of the economists who say <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">now is not the time for applying medium- or long-term fiscal reform to our short-term need to stimulate to avoid the worst case, which is more than a double-dip recession — it is a global depression</span>. In an ideal world, we would couple sound short-term policy with a real commitment to longer-term debt reduction. Perversely, perhaps, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">that grim reality gives me a bit more hope than I had before about the prospect for a breakthrough from the Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction</span>. If anyone can understand these dilemmas, and the strong inter-relationship between the European situation and our own economy, it is Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), who has been both a budget director and a trade representative in addition to his service in the House and Senate. The same is true for Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.), chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. Of course, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the temptation to let partisan politics take over, leading to even more gridlock, remains high</span>. On Sunday, Politico published the following chilling quote about President Barack Obama’s jobs plan: “‘Obama is on the ropes; why do we appear ready to hand him a win?’ said one senior House Republican aide who requested anonymity to discuss the matter freely. ‘I just don’t want to co-own the economy by having to tout that we passed a jobs bill that won’t work or at least won’t do enough.’” In other words, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">denying the president a political victory trumps doing something that may help the economy and create jobs — even when it involves policies that have previously been touted by Republicans</span>. But Portman, and perhaps Reps. Dave Camp (R-Mich.) and Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), has to realize that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">we are now playing not with fire, not just with live ammunition, not even with real grenades, but with nuclear weapons. Failure to act in a strong and bold way could risk a depression that could last for years. Thesuper committee may well have the fate of the world in its hands — and a solution is there for the taking</span>. What is it? It starts with the template that every bipartisan group inside and outside Congress has come up with: $4 trillion overall in deficit reduction over 10 years including major tax reform which lowers rates and adds about $1 trillion, a fourth of the overall package, in revenues. Combine that with a version of the president’s jobs program for the near term, and we have it. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine if that kind of package got adopted by the super committee, especially by a vote of say, 10-2 or 9-3</span> — <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">enough of a margin to enable it to survive its otherwise dicey prospects in the House, and likely to sail through the Senate</span>. (Note to Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.): no filibuster or other delay tactics allowed.) <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The shock to conventional wisdom would be immense</span>. Likely, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. markets would soar and there would be a comparable reaction abroad. It could actually provide enough of a positive shock to the system that it would changedomestic and international consumer and business psychology, providing a major positive effect on the global economy.</span> Can all this be done by Nov. 23? Actually, the tax reform package can be put together pretty quickly, if the base-broadening is done by setting deduction limits rather than picking out winners and losers among the popular deductions. If I had my druthers, I would opt for providing even deeper cuts in rates by adding a kind of consumption tax advocated by the Domenici-Rivlin Bipartisan Policy Center commission. There are many ways to restrain the growth curves of Social Security and Medicare without hitting core benefits for most recipients. Raising the Medicare age to 67 is feasible — but only if the Affordable Care Act is in place, providing alternative health insurance options for older Americans caught without jobs or Medicare. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">None of this is easy. Doing it requires unnatural acts for politicians driven by the contemporary frenzy of our tribal politics. But success could make history</span> for people such as Portman, Kerry, Camp and Upton. So here is my question for all of you: Why are you there, if not to make history and improve the lives of Americans? You all have a rare, maybe unprecedented chance to do something remarkable. Don’t blow it.
Independently, failure to come up with a compromise destroys hegemony and causes global nuclear war – defense spending is key to deter China and Iran, protect sea lanes, solve terrorism and North Korean War
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon 9/13</span>/11 [Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative, The Future of National Defense and the U.S. Military Ten Years After 9/11, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.aspx?rssid=LatestFromBrookings&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+BrookingsRSS%2Ftopfeeds%2FLatestFromBrookings+%28Brookings%3A+Latest+From+Brookings%29&utm_content=Google+Reader]]</span>]
Most worrisome is the default plan. As part of the August deficit and debt deal, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the new Fiscal “Supercommittee” is due to present a plan before Thanksgiving</span> for an up-or-down vote by Congress before Christmas. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">If such a plan is not approved, defense and national security will automatically suffer another $500 billion or so in ten-year cuts, making for a grand total of about $900 billion. Such draconian cuts would jeopardize irreducible requirements in American defense policy—winding down current wars responsibly, deterring Iran, hedging against a rising China, protecting global sea lanes vital for commerce, attacking terrorists and checking state sponsors of terror, and ensuring a strong all-volunteer military as well as a world-class defense scientific and industrial base</span>. Behind these specific recommendations is a broader premise. Not only the United States, but <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the world in general, benefits from the current international order in which America is the strongest power and helps lead a broader alliance system involving most of the world’s other major powers. World peace would not be served by U.S. disarmament or even a trend towards the emergence of multiple, comparable power centers</span>. I do not mean Americans should want to dominate others. Nor should the United States do other countries’ fighting for them. But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">if the United States were to stop playing a global leadership role, competition and conflict would be the likely result. In such a “multipolar” world, countries would often be less confident of their own security, and sometimes inclined to take matters into their own hands by engaging in arms races, building nuclear weapons, or even attacking their neighbors</span>. We Americans get lots of things wrong, but we usually get around to the right policy after trying all others as Churchill famously remarked. In the end most peaceful democratic states do not fear us and want to ally with us. As such our power is stabilizing, and desirable. Perhaps someday a world made up just of democracies will, as “democratic peace theory” would predict, be inherently stable on its own, without a strong leader.[1] But the world is not there yet. Put differently, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">we have to be careful about cutting defense so much that we have to give up some current overseas missions and responsibilities</span>. It would be nice if some parts of the world had become less important, some missions that were previously very important obsolescent, some allies that had previously been too weak to carry much of the burden of maintaining international stability much stronger and more inclined to use their power in productive ways. But the world does not offer many such easy options. One place might be Russia; despite Moscow’s prickliness on many issues, it has become more security partner than adversary of the United States, and any threats it might pose to NATO are minimal. However, our force planning already downplays the possibility of scenarios involving Russia, as it should, so there are no big further savings to reap. Some might think that Korea would offer a more promising case where American security commitments could be reduced. And it is true that South Korea’s military is stronger than before, North Korea’s less strong. But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the last time we tried to ignore the Korean threat</span>, back in 1949 when Secretary of State Dean Acheson infamously declared it beyond America’s security perimeter of key overseas interests, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">what we got was an emboldened North Korea and a full-fledged war. Today, North Korea is ruled by the same fanatical regime as before, and while the conventional military balance on the peninsula now strongly favors the Republic of Korea and United States, North Korea now has nuclear weapons</span>. For reasons I develop further in the pages that follow, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">we would be unwise to draw back from the world or take a big gamble on simply deciding to forgo certain types of military responsibilities. To be sure, we may choose not to carry out the next “war of choice.” But we may not always have a choice about when and where to fight; in a world with proliferating nuclear arsenals, transnational terrorists, and other threats that can reach out and touch us even from far away, what happens in other regions can affect Americans much more directly than we might prefer</span>. In his retirement ceremony speech of August 31, 2011, the greatest general of his generation, David Petraeus, warned us that as a nation we do not always get to choose the wars we fight, and it was good advice. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Rather than retrench, our primary focus in cutting the defense budget should be to look for ways to be more innovative, cost-effective, and brutally efficient in how we prepare for most possible contingencies and maintain existing obligations. It is not the time for America to come home from the world</span>. Military budget cuts should not be, and cannot be, our main means to reducing the deficit. Cutting $350 billion over 10 years, or perhaps up to $500 billion, would entail some risk to America’s global interests. As such, it can only be justified on national security grounds if the nation’s economy is strengthened substantially in the process. Nations with hollow economies cannot be secure indefinitely, so it is legitimate to view the debt as a national security threat, and economic renewal as a national security imperative. However, this idea only works if projected deficits are reduced enough to make a notable difference in America’s economic prognosis. And that is only possible if broad-based deficit reduction occurs. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">As big as the defense budget is, moreover, it is only one of five big components of the federal budget of roughly comparable size</span>—the others being Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the sum total of other domestic programs ranging from science research to infrastructure development to federal support for education. In short,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">big defense cuts are only sound policy if they are accompanied by entitlement revisions and tax reforms that reduces spending and increases revenue. </span>There is no exact point at which defense cuts become excessive and unwise. But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">make no mistake about it: we will have to cut into muscle, and not just fat or waste</span>, to achieve even the $350 billion to $500 billion ten-year cuts that are now being taken as a given. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Such reductions would constitute almost 10 percent of planned spending, above and beyond reductions that will occur as the wars end</span>. This book attempts to develop a plan for accomplishing such reductions without jeopardizing the country’s security interests. But I hope to show that even cuts of this size would be risky, and that deeper cuts would be too much. I reach this conclusion not as some superhawk or member of the “military-industrial complex” that Eisenhower warned us about, but as a Democrat, former Peace Corps volunteer, scientist by training, budget specialist by background, and independent scholar. And I agree with deficit hawks that we must look hard, in uncomfortable ways, for means of scaling back. But it is equally important not to be reckless in the effort. This book’s argument is equally passionate about two points—that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the military budget must play a major role in deficit reduction, but also that the process must not go too far and must be grounded in a sound national security strategy for the United States</span>.

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Super Committee DA-2NC Overview]]2NC Overview</span>==== 
They have conceded the laundry list of scenarios in the O’Hanlon evidence – Unchecked Chinese rise causes global nuclear war
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Walton 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49</span>

Obviously, it is of vital importance to the United States that the PRC does not become the hegemon of Eastern Eurasia. As noted above, however, regardless of what Washington does, China's success in such an endeavor is not as easily attainable as pessimists might assume. The PRC appears to be on track to be a very great power indeed, but geopolitical conditions are not favorable for any Chinese effort to establish sole hegemony; a robust multipolar system should suffice to keep China in check, even with only minimal American intervention in local squabbles. The more worrisome danger is that Beijing will cooperate with a great power partner, establishing a very muscular axis. Such an entity would present a critical danger to the balance of power, thus both necessitating very active American intervention in Eastern Eurasia and creating the underlying conditions for a massive, and probably nuclear, great power war. Absent such a "super-threat," however, the demands on American leaders will be far more subtle: creating the conditions for Washington's gentle decline from playing the role of unipolar quasi-hegemon to being "merely" the greatest of the world's powers, while aiding in the creation of a healthy multipolar system that is not marked by close great power alliances.


Perception of cuts kills heg, even if they don’t actually happen we won’t be able to recover.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Auslin 9/28/11</span>
Michael, resident scholar at AEI and former associate professor of history and senior research fellow at the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale, Guns, Butter, and Global Stability, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/104205]]</span>
In a way, we are already facing this dilemma, particularly in Asia. While there is little question about the current strength of the U.S. forward based presence, Asian states, rightly or wrongly, are very concerned about our staying power (i.e., our will) and our strategy for dealing with China. The result is that there is already a nascent arms race in the Indo-Pacific region. All states that can do so are buying submarines, increasing their surface fleets, and procuring or building advanced fighter aircraft (or both, like India). They are doing so for one reason: China. The great tension between Beijing's "smile diplomacy" and its military buildup seems to have been resolved to a large degree in favor of realpolitik and the willingness to use China's new national strength. Over the past year or so, China has expended its assertive claims throughout Asia, refused to accommodate on longstanding positions vis-à-vis Tibet and Taiwan, and even probed how far it can use military strength to intimidate other Asian nations, as it has done against Vietnam, the Philippines, and Indonesia in recent months. That has led to increased uncertainty and insecurity in the Indo-Pacific. Even before the types of U.S. cuts that Reihan thinks could lead to a new security competition, then, we are seeing a change in the perception of other actors, leading to policy shifts that include increased defense spending, and a cycle of response on China's part. As for the question of whether China wants to play a larger strategic role, I think we simply don't know enough yet about Chinese decisionmaking to conclude whether they are focused primarily on shaping the security environment in their region (which I think is likely), simply being opportunistic or being reactive to threats they perceive (which I think is probable), or slowly crafting a much larger strategy for global influence and power (which I think is accidental, if happening). The question is what the U.S. can and should do to maintain the global stability equation. What we do sends signals we may not intend or be able to control. Shutting down production of the F-22 at a measly 187 (now 186) planes left many wondering if we were committed to maintaining control of the air. Should $465 billion in budget cuts result in the U.S. military having to reduce some of the missions it currently carries out--for example, steaming to relatively obscure waterways--then perceptions of our retreat will gather steam, leading to further alterations in the behavior of other actors. Some of those actors may well step up to provide some global goods, as Japan may be doing over maritime security in Philippine waters. Many others, of course, will take the chance to act in ways that destabilize regional balances and gain for themselves greater influence or actual control in certain areas. That leaves the U.S. in a reactive position, and one that is much harder to recover from. When a hegemon begins to surrender its position, the effects are by definition widespread and carry far more import than those of smaller nations. We may find ourselves beset by instability in multiple regions, having a direct effect on global trade and the security of our traditional partners, without the means to concentrate power the way we have grown used to over the past half-century. The result, regardless of the size of the U.S. defense budget, would be a world of much greater danger and threat to the liberal international order.

Turns the case – means no lift capability for satellites.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Scarborough 9/29/11</span>
Rowan, Report: Budget cuts would hollow out military, The Washington Times, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/sep/29/report-budget-cuts-would-leave-military-hollow/?page=all#pagebreak|http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/sep/29/report-budget-cuts-would-leave-military-hollow/?page=all#pagebreak]]</span>
A new congressional report spells out in detail how the military would become “hollow” if Congress‘ super committee fails to agree on deficit reductions and $1 trillion in automatic spending cuts kick in. The Army and Marine Corps would lose 200,000 troops, bringing active strength “well below” pre-Sept. 11, 2001, levels, and the armed forces would not be able to carry out its essential mission, says a 14-page analysis by the Republican majority staff of the Housed Armed Services Committee. The report also says the cuts would deplete weapon systems, further degrading the fighting capabilities of the armed forces. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has warned repeatedly in recent weeks of a weakened, or hollow, military if a congressional super-committee fails to agree on deficit reductions by Nov. 23. By law, the stalemate would require across-the-board slashing at all federal agencies, including the Pentagon. Mr. Panetta has not offered many details. But the House analysis is now filling in the blanks. According to the report, the base defense budget, minus actual war costs, would plunge from a planned $596 billion in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, 2012, to $491 billion. “Resultant force structure is insufficient to decisively win an engagement in one theater while defending vital national interests in another,” states the internal report, prepared for Committee Chairman Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, California Republican. “Jeopardizes ability to respond to potential contingencies in North Korea or Iran,and adequately defend allies [including Israel and Taiwan] and deployed U.S. forces,” the report states. If there is no super-committee agreement, the report says: • The Navy fleet will shrink from about 300 ships to 238 vessels, with two fewer aircraft carriers to project power. • The strategic bombing arsenal will fall from 153 weapons to 101 bombs. • Air Force fighters, the backbone of gaining control of the skies in a conflict, would drop by more than half, from 3,602 aircraft to 1,512 planes. The report does not predict what new weapon systems would be cut by the Pentagon to meet the budget law. But it puts “at risk” the F-35 Lightning multi-purpose fighter for the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps, as well as new Army combat vehicles that would provide improved protection for soldiers. “As a result, the ability of the United States soldier, sailor, airman, or Marine to maintain a technological advantage on the battlefield would be in jeopardy,” the report says. Other concerns: the U.S. will lack sufficient, heavy-lift rockets to put spy satellites in space; will not be able to upgrade the only ground-based ballistic missile interceptors now in operation; and will be forced to slash more than 100 of the 450 ICBMs now on alert.

Turns the second advantage – defense cuts means we won’t have the capacity to intervene anywhere for humanitarian and disaster response purposes
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">D</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">onelly, 9-13 </span>[Thomas Donelly, Director of the Center for Defense Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, “TESTIMONY: House Armed Services Committee,” September 13th 2011, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.aei.org/docLib/TDHASCTestimony13Sept2011.pdf]]</span>]
Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Smith, for the opportunity to testify today. I know we “outside experts” are an imperfect substitute for the former secretaries of defense whom you had planned to hear from today, but given the gravity of the moment – I believe that the future health of the U.S. armed forces and the security of the United States may well be in the hands of the members of the “Super Committee” and, generally, in the consideration of our government’s finances. That is not to say that I concur with Admiral Mike Mullen’s view that our deficits and debts are the greatest security challenge we face. Quite the opposite: I am worried that our future prosperity depends first and foremost on our future security. I cannot imagine that today’s global economy, itself a manifestation of American power and international leadership, will be nearly so fruitful absent the guarantees we provide. The fiscal problems of the federal government are neither the result of military spending, nor can they be cured by cutting military spending. And, of course, as a percentage of American wealth and federal spending, Pentagon budgets have been constantly cut since the 1980s. And during this administration, the Department of Defense has been the billpayer of first and almost only choice, coughing up hundreds of billions of dollars while other agencies have been fed a diet rich in “stimulus.” But rather than focus on the finances or even the programmatic consequences of the cuts in prospect – which are severe and, should Super-Committee “sequestration” or the equivalent come to pass, debilitating to our armed forces – I would like to talk a bit about the likely strategic consequences. It has become fashionable to talk about American “decline” in the abstract, or to describe “strategic risk” in an anodyne fashion. And so I will take a quick tour of the strategic horizon, looking at particular global and regional balances of power that can only become more volatile with the diminished presence of American forces or the diminished capabilities that they may bring to bear. I derive the framework of this tour from the work of the Quadrennial Defense Review Independent Panel, the bipartisan – nay, “nonpartisan” – effort that was essentially the creation of this committee. The panel quickly discovered that the formal process of defense strategy-making in the QDR had become bankrupt, and thus was thrown back upon its own long experience and knowledge about the persistent patterns and habits of U.S. security strategy; that is, not what we have said we would do, but what we actually have done in the course of the post-World War II decades, during the time where America has come to its position of global leadership. This I offer also as the most reliable benchmark about what would be different about the world to come, the world without American leadership. The panel deduced four consistent U.S. national security interests: • The defense of the American homeland; • Assured access to the “commons” on the seas, in the air, in space and in “cyberspace;” • The preservation of a favorable balance of power across Eurasia that prevents authoritarian domination of that region; and • Providing for the global “common good” through such actions as humanitarian aid, development assistance, and disaster relief. Carrying out the missions associated with securing these four fundamental interests has been the raison d’être of U.S. military forces under presidents of both parties in times of conflict, of Cold-War competition, and in moments of relative stability and peace. Taken together, they define America’s role in the world. I will consider how each might be affected by a loss of American military power. Defense of the American Homeland: The tenth anniversary of the September 11 attacks, if nothing else, provided a reminder of the primacy of the mission of defending the American homeland. That there has been no repeat of those terrifying attacks is both a surprise – certainly I anticipated that there might be more to come – and a testament to the efforts made. The al Qaeda organization which conducted those attacks has been badly punished and our defenses vastly improved, indeed to the point where complacency, not “overreaction,” is as big a concern. The role of the Department of Defense has often been a supporting and secondary element in the immediate defense of the United States proper, but it nonetheless has brought immense capabilities to bear in that support; the military’s intelligence-gathering contributions amount to tens of billions of dollars annually. Second, the distinction between homeland defense and foreign operations is very slim in the case of international terrorist groups. Homeland defense must not begin at the borders, and, if it is to continue to be effective, must be tactically and operationally offensive, preventing and disrupting attacks, not merely responding to them. September 11 shattered our belief in “strategic depth,” that physical distance was sufficient to protect us against otherwise weak enemies. Lastly, we should not forget the full meaning of America’s “homeland.” The term traditionally is meant to incorporate all North America and the Caribbean Basin; it is something we share with our neighbors. Over the past decade, our neighborhood has become more dangerous, particularly to the south, where criminal gangs and criminal regimes are increasingly enveloped in a kind of syndicate – one that can include terrorist groups – that preys upon fragile democracies and which makes for violent acts even within the United States. One measure of the consequences of defense cuts is likely to be that the Defense Department’s “homeland commands” – Northern and Southern commands – are prime targets for reductions, consolidation, even elimination under various “reform” proposals that treat these headquarters, which are truly combatant commands, as “overhead.” But NORTHCOM is still in its infancy while SOUTHCOM has constantly been a neglected child and a source of “savings” in the post-Cold-War years. Yet these two commands reflect our oldest and most critical security interests. Access to the ‘Commons’ Describing the maritime, air, space and cyberspace “realms” as “international commons” is an imprecise term – there are, for example, sovereign waters and air space – but nonetheless these domains are critical components of international security and also commerce. And assured access, and in terms of war, dominance and supremacy, to these realms is a critical element of U.S. national security strategy. To observe that Americans are seafaring people or to describe the United States as a “maritime power” is hardly a controversial point. Even the most isolationist elements of the domestic political spectrum will support the power-projection posture of the U.S. Navy, despite its British imperial overtones. And the importance of secure sea lines of communication – particularly the shipping route the stretches from the Persian Gulf through the Red Sea, Indian Ocean to the Malacca Straits and South China Sea to Northeast Asia, which carries an immense and growing volume of the world’s trade – remains critical to international security. But a smaller Navy, even one with more capable ships but fewer overseas bases, is less frequently present in places such as the South China Sea, where who “rules the waves” is open to doubt and a matter of potential conflict. Likewise, new technologies are allowing China and others to develop a range of “anti-access” and “area-denial” capabilities that are shifting the naval balance. The U.S. Navy is as small as it has been since World War I; force reductions would both encourage adversaries and discourage allies or would-be strategic partners. But the cardinal virtue of U.S. military power – and, in the age of the aircraft carrier, even of naval power – has been the quality of American air power. Two decades ago, in the aftermath of the first Gulf War, U.S. air supremacy reached its zenith, fabled not only for its firepower but its unprecedented precision; war from the air was a uniquely American way of war. At the core of this mystique was the ability to mass and synchronize large swarms of tactical aircraft. This method of operations built a mountain of effects out of a molehill of airplanes, relying on access to bases in the theater of operations. The same technologies that threaten surface ships now hold these air bases at risk – but also, the swarms of “fourth generation” F-15s, F-16s and F/A-18s are aging and their numbers are shrinking. The cuts in view could result in a fighter force half the size of the “Desert Storm”-era armada. And the generation-long failure to modernize is felt most directly in the tactical air forces: the F-22 program was stopped at 187 Raptors when 750 were once planned, and the F-35 would certainly be the prime target of future cuts. Access to space – which has long been “militarized” much to the advantage of the United States – is no longer a sure thing. And even where access might be retained, military dominance and supremacy are uncertain. This is a critical vulnerability for U.S. forces, whose weapons, operations, communications and more depend on it. As observed above, intelligence satellites are essential in even the smallest, most irregular operations against the tiniest terrorist groups, but the loss of larger networks in a conflict against a more sophisticated foe – and China is at the forefront in developing and recently testing anti-satellite systems – would be catastrophic. Strategic and operational thinking about “cyberspace” is still being developed, but the best analogies and precedents are to be found in regarding this realm as similar to the maritime domain. The Internet is indeed much more a venue for commerce and civilian communication than a military asset, though it is that; sharing information has been a key to the process of “transformation.” It has already been a domain for private “pirates” and used, notably by Russia, as a battlefield. No one is quite sure what it means to “secure” cyberspace, but suffice it to observe that the failure to do so in a significant way would be a critical test of international politics and an easily imaginable provocation to war. In sum, even as the “common” realms where commerce, communication and security intersect are expanding and the burdens of “securing the commons” or “assuring free access” to them appear to be growing, the U.S. military is already at full stretch. A fading of American power would inevitably result in a contest to control these commons. Continental Balances: The corollary of the commonplace observation that America is a “maritime power” is that U.S. strategic posture has been – and should return to – that of an “offshore balancer,” intervening only in conflicts across the Eurasian landmass to prevent a “hostile hegemon” from dominating Europe or the Middle East or East Asia. But, as quickly became clear to the members of the QDR Independent Panel, close attention to these continental balances has been the core of American strategy-making for decades. The most obvious example and most obvious success is to be found in Europe – a continent that has been intertwined with the American security since the discovery of the “New World.” The pursuit of a “Europe whole and free” was the central goal of the Cold War, but even that was a recognition that World War II left the situation across the continent dangerous and unstable. Conversely, the end of the Cold War appears to have put a punctuation mark on centuries of conflict; it is hard to imagine a large-scale war in Europe, and that is a direct result not only of American “offshore balancing” but American presence and alliance-building since 1945. U.S. military presence in Europe is a shadow of its former self, though it remains critical as a “lily pad” for deployments elsewhere – Libya is the most recent example, but all the recent operations in the Middle East were enabled by Europe-based forces. And the unprecedented peace of Europe is itself a great blessing that comes at low cost. Likewise, the American commitment to the “Middle East” – a very loose term – has grown even as we have been able to draw down in Europe. In 1979, U.S. Central Command did not even exist; the Carter Administration cobbled together a “Rapid Deployment Joint Task Force” in the aftermath of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan that could neither deploy very rapidly nor bring much force to bear. Every president since then has found reason to take a larger hand in a very volatile but important region, from the 1987 reflagging of oil tankers to Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. In particular, we have come to see the region as many theaters in one. The focus of most efforts of the last generation has been on the Arab world, but it is increasingly clear that South Asia is a problem unto itself; we walk away from Pakistan only at extreme peril. Finally, our engagement in East Asia, north and south, on Pacific islands and ashore, is as long-lasting and, over time, as large as that in Europe. But no event is of greater geopolitical import than the rise of China; how we respond to that – and the course of China itself – is the salient issue of the moment and for the future. We have treaty allies in Japan, South Korea and elsewhere, whose safety, prosperity and – perhaps surprisingly but assuredly – democracy depend upon our regional posture and our military power. What is not surprising is that China is lately making the most mischief in the South China Sea and Southeast Asia, where we were once constantly present and supremely powerful. Ironically, the one nation to resist U.S. force, Vietnam, is leading the call for America to return to the scene. The Global Good: One of the supreme reasons why the American exercise of military power attracts even former adversaries is that, at least in contrast to others, we can and do use our forces not only to deter, punish and defeat but to relieve, aid and develop. Be it a response to a humanitarian crisis – a tsunami, a nuclear meltdown or a combination of the two – or an uncertain and open-ended attempt to replace what John Quincy Adams called “derelict” states with legitimate government, contributing to a common good beyond the strict national interest has been and ought to remain an important mission for the U.S. military. To protest that, especially in tough times, we must conserve our strength only for those occasions that demand “warfighting” capabilities or the kind of sophisticated operations and high technologies only possessed by our armed forces is, if experience counts for anything, to expect too much – or too little. Given the character of our political principles and the extent of our power, the kind of hard-nosed “realism” of the international relations professoriat is a theory that American strategic practice is unlikely to fulfill. It is not realistic to expect the United States to be like Bismark’s Prussia. Moreover, the failure to act in pursuit of a global and common good would make the practice of harder power more difficult. The rest of the world sees how we behave – indeed, they spend most of their own strategy-making energy in first trying to figure out what we will do – and behaves accordingly. If the United States falters in its attempts at making the world a better place, if we think we can “lead from behind,” we will find it harder to make it a very safe place.

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Super Committee DA-Uniqueness Wall]]Uniqueness Wall</span>==== 
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Compromise Now</span>__
A) Bipartisan compromise is coming now – an ethic of compromise, pressure and committee expertise all guarantee it but __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">partisanship</span>__ can derail it – that’s Ragusa – prefer our evidence – theirs cites __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">no</span>__ warrants and is just hyperbole
B) __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pressure and momentum</span>__ – however, the potential for partisanship can derail deficit reduction initiatives
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Calmes, ‘9-12</span> [9/12/11, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/c/jackie_calmes/index.html?inline=nyt-per|Jackie Calmes]]</span>, Pressure Builds on Deficit Panel to ‘Go Big,’ Beyond Its Mandate, in Cuts,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/12/us/politics/12fiscal.html]]</span>, SM]
WASHINGTON — Led by <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/o/barack_obama/index.html?inline=nyt-per|President Obama]]</span>, pressure is building on the new Congressional committee on deficit reduction to “go big” — beyond its mandate to shave as much as $1.5 trillion from budget shortfalls over 10 years — even as doubts remain about the panel’s ability to find enough bipartisan agreement to meet even the original goal. A group of at least 57 prominent business executives and former government officials have signed a petition in support of a greater deficit reduction, which they are to release at a news conference on Monday. Among them are former treasury secretaries, budget directors and economic advisers to eight presidents from Richard M. Nixon to Mr. Obama; former Congressional leaders; and executives of top companies. Their letter reflects a broad sense of urgency in both parties, and among economists and businesses, that the nation must put in place long-range measures to shrink future deficits. At current spending levels, those deficits are expected to balloon over the next decade as the population ages and as health care costs rise. The letter does not call for short-term job-creation measures like the tax cuts and infrastructure spending <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/09/us/politics/09payroll.html?_r=1&scp=1&sq=Obama%20Challenges%20Congress%20to%20Pass%20This%20Jobs%20Bill&st=cse|Mr. Obama proposed last week]]</span>, which would add to deficits initially. Even so, many of the signers, liberals and conservatives, have called for such steps. The petition does include what has fast become a catchphrase for those who believe Congress is thinking too small. “We urge you to ‘go big,’ ” they wrote, “and develop a large-scale debt-reduction package sufficient to stabilize the debt as a share of the economy.” Generally that level is estimated at $4 trillion in deficit reductions over the decade, savings that would build in later years. Because Congress and Mr. Obama already agreed last month to nearly $1 trillion in reductions in so-called discretionary spending for social and military programs, the special committee would have to find more than $3 trillion more to meet that goal — double its mandate for $1.2 trillion to $1.5 trillion, written into the <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/03/us/politics/03fiscal.html?scp=1&sq=Debt%20Bill%20Signed,%20Ending%20Crisis%20and%20Fractious%20Battle&st=cse|August deficit-reduction deal]]</span>. Mr. Obama has called for a goal of at least $2 trillion, though the extra savings would mostly offset the up-front costs of his new $447 billion<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/u/united_states_economy/economic_stimulus/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|stimulus plan]]</span>. A higher deficit-reduction goal would increase pressure on both parties to address the two main drivers of projected high debt: the rapid growth of spending for the <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/medicare/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|Medicare]]</span> and <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/health/diseasesconditionsandhealthtopics/medicaid/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|Medicaid]]</span> programs and an inefficient tax system unable to keep pace. That would test Republicans’ opposition to raising any tax revenues from high-income individuals and corporations, and would challenge Congressional Democrats to agree to more savings from entitlement programs than they would like. Yet it is the parties’ differences on taxes and government health care benefits that have many in the White House, Congress and outside groups skeptical that the 12-member panel, which is split evenly between Republicans and Democrats and House and Senate members, can reach agreement even on the lesser goal. Several signers of the letter said they had no illusions that their appeal alone would persuade many lawmakers, especially Republicans, to compromise. And while Congressional Democratic leaders have indicated that they would follow Mr. Obama in backing a compromise, many Democrats fear that doing so would undercut their ability to attack Republicans in 2012 for their proposals to remake and shrink Medicare and Medicaid. The threshold of $4 trillion was first suggested in December by a majority of the fiscal panel that Mr. Obama established in 2010, led by Alan K. Simpson, a former Senate Republican leader, and Erskine B. Bowles, a former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton. Both men signed the letter. “That is not a number that people just made up because the No. 4 bus just drove by,” Mr. Bowles said in an interview. “It’s the minimum amount we need to do in order to stabilize the debt and put it on a downward path as a percent of G.D.P.” The public debt amounted to 62 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product last year and is projected to reach 77 percent of economic output by 2021. Other signers include George P. Schultz, a former secretary of labor, treasury and state; Martin Feldstein and Murray L. Weidenbaum, top economic advisers to President Ronald Reagan; and the first chairman of Mr. Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers, Christina D. Romer. The businesspeople include David M. Cote, the chairman of Honeywell International and a Republican on the Bowles-Simpson commission, and Marne Obernauer Jr., chairman of the Beverage Distributors Company and an owner of the Colorado Rockies baseball team. The letter writers did not recommend how to reduce deficits, acknowledging that they had “differences of opinion.” But their letter, which was organized by the<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://crfb.org/|Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget]]</span> at the <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://newamerica.net/|New America Foundation]]</span>, a centrist research group, makes clear that the solution should include spending and tax changes. “We believe that a go-big approach that goes well beyond the $1.5 trillion deficit reduction goal” should include “major reforms of entitlement programs and the tax code,” they wrote. Republican leaders have not joined Mr. Obama in seeking a higher goal. After a Rose Garden event on Monday, Mr. Obama will send Congress his jobs bill and long-term deficit cuts to offset its cost; next week he will propose another $1.5 trillion in deficit reductions to the committee. “We’re certainly open to hearing the president’s ideas,” said Michael Steel, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner. The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said last week: “I’m not going to prejudge what the <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/c/congress/joint_congressional_committee_on_deficit_reduction/index.html?inline=nyt-org|joint committee]]</span> might do. It has a broad array of options. But its goal, obviously, is to do something significant about deficit reduction with a floor of between $1.2 trillion and $1.5 trillion over 10 years.” He added, “We’ll see whether they can even go beyond that.” The committee is to report by Nov. 23, and Congress must hold an up-or-down vote by Dec. 23. “Is it 50-50 that they’ll do something big and bold? No,” Mr. Bowles said. “But I think there’s a real chance. There are a lot of people on that committee, Republicans and Democrats, that I’ve talked to personally that want to do something big.”

C) __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Committee leadership</span>__ – central members are focusing on a concrete solution, but are vulnerable to craving into ideological interests
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Gregg, ‘9-12</span> [9/12/11, Judd Gregg, “Opinion: Potential great for deficit-reduction supercommittee”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/opinion/columnists/judd-gregg/180801-potential-great-for-the-super-committee]]</span>, SM]
Although its goal may be anemic, the opportunity this supercommittee has to fundamentally improve our nation’s desperate fiscal situation is extraordinary. For the first time there has come into play a process that can allow our inherently dysfunctional political system to take on the big issues and move them toward positive resolutions. This type of action usually only occurs when the nation is in a crisis. The implications and importance of the opportunity cannot be understated. Among the powers the supercommittee has been given is the ability to put forward legislative proposals that need only a majority vote to pass and cannot be amended. That gives Congress the exceptional power of actually being able to get something done. The chance for the fundamental reform that is necessary to right the fiscal boat of our nation is now in the hands of this committee. The question is, will it have the courage and creativity to take advantage of this truly unusual chance? Its membership is talented. But is it a group that sees the problem as acute and potentially disastrous, as it truly is, and thus requiring extraordinary action? Do they have the originality and personalities to work out what will have to be an inventive and bipartisan approach? I think they do. The co-chairmen are both strong players, but they do not have a history, or for that matter an inclination, of going across the aisle. They are dedicated to their respective ideological bases. Yet, they are also leaders. At a time such as this, they can see the chance to not only change their role but to potentially save the nation from the trauma of a fiscal meltdown. It is a Churchillian moment for them.

D) __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Structural factors</span>__ – they increase the likelihood of passage, but partisanship can still break out
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Brill 9/14</span>/11 Alex Brill is a research fellow at AEI., Super Committee vs. Fiscal Commission: It's Different This Time<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/104138]]</span> JG
In December 2010, the President's Fiscal Commission failed to garner the necessary supermajority to pass its plan to reduce the deficit by $3.9 trillion over ten years. Now, with the Congressional Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction, commonly known as the Super Committee, starting work on its effort to propose $1.5 trillion in deficit reductions, some have speculated that history is about to repeat itself. However, a closer examination of the two bodies' purpose, structure, and powers reveals a night-and-day difference--the Super Committee is designed to succeed, while the Fiscal Commission was not. First, the two bodies have different purposes. The Fiscal Commission's goal was to identify "policies to improve the fiscal situation in the medium term and achieve fiscal sustainability over the long run," exactly the type of high bar grandiose objective that has led to failed attempts to solve the gridlock on fiscal reform for decades. The Super Committee's target, while insufficient to completely solve our country's long-run fiscal challenges, is big enough that lawmakers have within reach the means to make a significant step forward in addressing our fiscal imbalance. The Super Committee requires only a simple majority vote to recommend a plan. The Executive Order that established the Fiscal Commission required a supermajority vote (14 of 18 Commissioners) to pass its recommendations. Furthermore, one-third of the Fiscal Commission members were private citizens, appointed by the President, who did not face the political constraints that make deficit reduction so difficult. All members of the Super Committee are Senators and Representatives and were chosen by the Congressional leadership. Most importantly, the Super Committee is embedded in the legislative process. While the Fiscal Commission was established by an executive order with the President as the intended audience for its recommendations, the Super Committee was established by law, and its recommendations are guaranteed expedited consideration in Congress with no opportunity for filibusters or amendments. It is a lawmaking exercise, first and foremost. And furthermore, a sliding scale backstop ensures that if the Super Committee's policies save less than $1.2 trillion within the budget window, automatic across-the-board spending cuts will sop up the remaining deficit reduction target. The prospect of automatic cuts to both defense and nondefense spending beginning in 2013 gives the Super Committee an incentive to succeed that the Fiscal Commission never had. While each of the 18 members of the Fiscal Commission were truly dedicated to their task, success was not in the design. They had no means by which to overcome the structural limitations under which they were organized. With a simple majority requirement, a truly bipartisan structure of only lawmakers, and the real threat of sequestration, the new Super Committee is designed to succeed. Despite its obstacles, the Fiscal Commission made some good tax policy proposals, whose intent the Super Committee would do well to heed. First, support for curtailing "tax expenditures" and reducing individuals' statutory tax rates was enjoyed by most if not all Commissioners, and is sound tax policy. Lowering tax rates is always a pro-growth reform, and base broadening, if properly constructed, can be too. Second, a majority of the Commissioners favored reducing the corporate statutory rate and moving toward a territorial tax system, which would also promote growth and economic efficiency. Not all aspects of the Fiscal Commission's tax plan promote growth and efficiency. For example, the Commission's proposal to raise the tax rate on capital gains and dividends would discourage capital formation and reduce wage growth over time. The Super Committee certainly should not make the tax burden on capital formation higher than it already is. In fact, pro-growth base broadening must distinguish carefully between the changes that promote efficient allocation of resources and those that discourage saving and investment. The Super Committee's job is a challenging one, especially considering their November 23 deadline for a vote on a deficit reduction package. In addition to finding mandatory spending cuts and entitlement reforms, the committee faces significant hurdles in translating the broad income tax recommendations of the Fiscal Commission into legislative reality. Transition rules may prove quite complicated, and the day when the tax code can be rid of most tax expenditures could be a decade from now. And the members must wrestle with the politically sensitive questions of what tax expenditures to protect and what overall level of tax burden is appropriate. These problem are not insurmountable, but with just ten weeks to work, the Super Committee will need to think hard and fast if it is to design a better tax system with less government meddling and lower tax rates.

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Super Committee DA-A2 Status Quo Spending]]A2 Status Quo Spending</span>==== 
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bipartisanship Now</span>__ – Going well now but still time to break down.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Cowan 9/28/11</span>
Richard, Reuters Journalist, As deficit panel meets, is no news good news?, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/28/us-usa-debt-secrecy-idUSTRE78R6FF20110928]]</span>
When politicians clam up -- a fairly rare event in Washington -- it might mean one thing, according to lobbyists, many of whom have deluged the panel with proposals: It is an indication the talks are going well. "If they were talking to reporters and drawing lines in the sand ... that'd be an awful sign," said one lobbyist, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Committee members, in their search for potential compromises, "are actively avoiding the public partisanship and political sniping that's too common in D.C. these days." "Let's face it, this is how negotiations that require concessions happen," said a Senate aide, who also asked not to be identified. TEDIOUS STAKEOUTS Before anyone plans celebrations of a massive deficit-reduction deal, one that would cheer financial markets worried about America's ballooning debt, it should be noted that there is plenty of time for super committee members to break their silence. If the talks begin to go sour, or if a workable outline emerges, journalists are likely to win more face time with super committee members as each side tries to either shift blame for a breakdown or claim credit for success. "A lot of work remains ahead," said one congressional aide offering a dose of realism.

The plan is a __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">new</span>__ addition to the super committee – the jobs bill was already perceived and has little impact on the negotiations
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Helderman, ‘9-9</span> [Rosalind S. Helderman, 9-9-11, “Obama’s jobs plan may add to supercommittee’s burden”<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/obamas-jobs-plan-may-add-to-supercommittees-burden/2011/09/09/gIQA9Oq6FK_story.html]]</span>, SM]
Several had called for the committee to find more in savings than its $1.5 trillion legal mandate and were unenthusiastic at the prospect of starting the task with the budget in a deeper hole. The president offered a spirited defense of his plan Friday in Richmond. Paying for it, he said, would not be difficult with a balanced approach that includes spending cuts and new tax revenue. “Look, we spent a whole summer fussing about the deficit,” Obama said. “And it is legitimate for us to get a government that is living within its means, just like families do.. . . What I said last night is, let’s go further. Let’s be a little more ambitious.” Some of the president’s Democratic allies, already anxious about assigning so much power to a handful of lawmakers working outside the normal legislative process, worry that the panel will sign on to a plan that cuts entitlement spending. Under the adopted rules, members of Congress have limited options to halt a compromise they find undesirable. If the panel comes to an agreement, Congress must vote to accept or reject the recommendations; no amendments or filibusters are allowed. Some Democrats who serve on the panel said they do not believe the president’s request has made their job harder. It could, in fact, make their task easier by spurring growth, which would mean higher tax collections and, therefore, a shrunken deficit, they say. Easier, maybe, but surely not easy. “In order for this committee to be successful, we’re not only going to have to be able to find common ground, but we’re going to have to make some hard compromises — and that was as true before the president’s speech as it was after,” said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.). “This was always going to be complicated.”

Obama’s job plan won’t derail compromise – he’s willing to push for spending cuts too
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Espo, ‘9-13</span> [David Espo, 09/13/11, “Super Committee Task Complicated By Obama Jobs Plan”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/09/13/super-committee-congress-obama-jobs-plan_n_959932.html]]</span>, SM]
"My question to Congress is: What on earth are we waiting for?" the president asked rhetorically as he visited Columbus, Ohio, to campaign for the enactment of his program of Social Security payroll tax cuts and spending increases for highway projects and other domestic programs. Speaking in the home state of Republican House Speaker John Boehner, the Democratic president said his call for $25 million for school construction would put thousands of construction workers in Ohio back to work. Boehner responded from the Capitol, where he said the president was seeking "permanent tax increases put into effect in order to pay for temporary spending. I just don't think that's going to help our economy the way it could." Republicans are likely to accept some or all of the tax cuts Obama wants, but the spending increases shape up as a tougher sell. GOP leaders point out that the administration's call for higher taxes on the wealthy has faced opposition from some Democrats as well as Republicans in the past. There were other skirmishes in Congress as the two parties sought to protect their own priorities in an era of soaring budget deficits. Democrats on the Senate Appropriations Committee launched defense spending legislation for the budget year beginning Oct. 1 that is $17 billion smaller than the amount approved by the House, a difference that must be reconciled by the end of the month to keep the money flowing. Also in the Senate, Democrats maneuvered to put Republicans on the spot on disaster aid by seeking legislation that would add $6.9 billion to FEMA's accounts without offsetting cuts elsewhere. The effect would be to let deficits rise. Past efforts to reach compromise on major debt-reducing proposals have run aground over mutually exclusive demands – Republicans opposed to raising taxes and Democrats against cutting benefit programs. But Obama has made clear he is willing to consider spending cuts this time around, and Boehner has said he put additional revenues on the table in negotiations with the president last summer that ultimately collapsed.

Congress will postpone contentious budget issues until after super committee package
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">OMB Watch, 9/13</span> (“Despite Debt Ceiling Deal, Future Budget Road Looks Bumpy,” 9/13/2011, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ombwatch.org/node/11849]]</span>)
Of course, all of this is just a precursor to the premier budget fight to come, by way of the debt ceiling deal. The so-called Super Committee created by the deal is charged with releasing a massive $1.2 trillion deficit reduction package by Thanksgiving, and the committee may consider incorporating pieces of President Obama’s recently announced jobs bill into it (which would require deeper cuts to other programs). With a highly public fiscal fight looming in the future, Congress may decide to clear the decks by quietly wrapping up or postponing contentious issues in the FY 2012 budget.

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Super Committee DA-Link Wall]]Link Wall</span>==== 
The link is huge
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">A) __Unpredictable Pressure__ – the unpredictable nature of the plan provides outside pressure to the super committee – creates a stalemate</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Buetler, ‘9-8</span> [Brian Buelter, “Can The Super Committee Even Pass Its First — And By Far Easiest — Test?”.<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/09/can-the-super-committee-even-pass-its-first----and-by-far-easiest----test.php]]</span>, SM]
Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), a Super Committee member, told reporters Tuesday the panel's options may be limited by this basic disagreement. "If either outside forces or the President or even members of Congress were to force the committee members into situations where you have to compromise our principles, that's going to be very, very hard to do," he said. Here's Super Committee co-chair Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), in an <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/09/super-committee-schedules-first-hearing-on-debt-crisis-gop-has-already-blamed-on-dems.php|oft-repeated line]]</span>: "The American people know we have a debt crisis not because they are under-taxed; it is because this President and previous Democratic Congresses have spent too much." That's an incorrect history, but it supports Hensarling's preferred solution: "One-hundred percent of the problem is on the spending side," he said in July. "100 percent of the solution has to come from the spending side."
B) __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tradeoffs</span>__ – independently, even if funding the plan is popular, find places to get reciprocal cuts for the plan creates partisanship
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Handberg, 11</span> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]]</span>)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/01/06/04.xml|NASA Administrator Charles Bolden alluded to that reality recently]]</span>: “Future NASA space programs must be affordable, sustainable and realistic to survive political and funding dangers that have killed previous initiatives.” This is harsh talk but it reflects the reality confronting all US discretionary programs in the federal budget. The new Republican House majority is determined to cut federal expenditures and appear to have little concern for where the cuts occur. The budget struggles this year and next will find all discretionary programs mobilizing their supporters. Competing agencies like the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Science Foundation (NSF) have constituencies who are savvy veterans of getting their way even when budgets are tight. The cure for some disease is always just another appropriation away from happening.

NASA can’t cut any spending for a program without congressional approval – Ares 1 proves
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Fox, ’10</span> [December 29, 2010, “Why NASA Is Spending Half a Billion Dollars on a Canceled Rocket”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/29/nasa-spending-half-billion-dollars-canceled-ares-rocket/#ixzz1YGhuL2tQ|http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/29/nasa-spending-half-billion-dollars-canceled-ares-rocket/#ixzz1YGhuL2tQ]]</span>, SM]
A large portion of the estimated $500,000,000 NASA will spend on the canceled rocket in the next few months -- $165 million of it -- will be paid to Alliant Techsystems, or ATK, toward the development of a solid-rocket first stage for the Ares I the rocket. However, with the cancellation of the Constellation <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/topics/space-missions/constellation-program.htm#r_src=ramp|program]]</span> as part of the President’s new NASA plan, signed into law in October, there are doubts that the<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/29/nasa-spending-half-billion-dollars-canceled-ares-rocket/|technology]]</span> will ever be used, reported <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[@http://articles.orlandosentinel.com/2010-12-26/news/os-nasa-ares-rocket-constellation-20101227_1_constellation-moon-program-nasa-s-ares-new-nasa-plan|the Orlando Sentinel]]</span>. It’s the frustrating result of an ongoing political battle that stretched throughout this year. With the potential cancellation of Constellation looming, lawmakers inserted clauses into NASA’s 2010 budget to protect Ares I jobs in their home states, effectively preventing NASA from shutting down the program pending a new <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/29/nasa-spending-half-billion-dollars-canceled-ares-rocket/|budget]]</span> from Congress. This was expected to happen prior to the beginning of the fiscal year on October 1, but Congress instead extended the current budget until March. This inaction leaves NASA obligated to keep Ares I alive -- despite the program’s cancellation. NASA is currently spending almost $100 million a month on Ares I, or roughly $500 million from October to March 2011, according to the agency. ATK didn't respond to FoxNews.com requests for additional information. Such unnecessary and potentially wasteful expenditures come at an especially inopportune time, as the agency struggles with budget issues. It now faces the expensive task of modernizing the <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/topics/space/kennedy-space-center.htm#r_src=ramp|Kennedy Space Center]]</span> and transforming it into a "21st-century spaceport," a project that now looks to be indefinitely delayed. NASA remains hopeful that work put into Ares I could have its benefits, however. Some programs from the new plan, such as a heavy-lift rocket, could employ the solid-rocket technologies still being developed. “Much of the Ares 1 work likely will be directly applicable to a heavy-lift vehicle if a shuttle-derived architecture is selected, including five-segment boosters, tank structures, upper-stage engine and avionics,” <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/29/nasa-spending-half-billion-dollars-canceled-ares-rocket/|NASA spokesman]]</span> Michael Cabbage told the Orlando Sentinel. Regardless, until Congress takes action, the program's short term purpose is far from certain and new projects have been inevitably stalled, according to J.D. Harrington, a Public Affairs Officer at NASA.

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Super Committee DA-A2 Impact Defense]]A2 Impact Defense</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Their impact defense doesn’t assume cuts that have already happened – we are at the brink now, any more cuts collapses our military strategy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Graham, ‘9-9</span> [Jed Graham, 9/9/11, “Debt Deal Trigger Would Cut Defense Spending Deeply”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.investors.com/NewsAndAnalysis/Article.aspx?id=584367&p=1]]</span>, SM]
By any measure, national security spending has soared in the wake of 9/11. Now, like most every other spending area, budget cutters have their knives out for defense as an area that, if not exactly ripe for cutting, should at least share the pain. Defense spending, about $530 billion this year outside of direct war costs, is up 44% over the past decade in inflation-adjusted terms. The most drastic cuts possible under the deal reached as part of the debt-ceiling hike last month would cut spending back to 2007 levels in fiscal 2013 — still up 24% from 2001. Would such a cut really merit the "doomsday" cry lobbed by Defense Secretary Leon Panetta in the wake of that budget deal? After all, analysts point out rampant waste in procurement over the past decade. The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments counts $50 billion in spending on programs that were canceled during development. The Center for Strategic and International Studies finds nearly $300 billion in cost overruns. But these facts obscure the bigger picture: The military has mostly deferred modernization of major equipment and weapons systems since the Cold War — as Panetta knows better than most. When Panetta was budget director under President Clinton, "we actually went one year and did not buy a single jet," retired Marine Lt. Gen. Emerson Gardner, now an analyst for institutional adviser Potomac Research, wrote in an email. "We don't have the luxury of cutting procurement that deeply again without a fundamental change in strategy." Todd Harrison of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments agreed: "We have pushed out the programs to modernize our inventory of equipment." In part because of the "missed opportunity" of mismanaged procurement over the past decade, "the bills are coming due," he said. So what did the extra dollars pay for — beyond the battlefield? "We increased spending for troops and retirees, though some of this (especially for retirees) was in fact ill-advised," wrote Brookings Institution defense scholar Michael O'Hanlon in an email. "We ended the Clinton-era 'procurement holiday' and got core pro curement spending back around $100 billion a year — where it should be to sustain a force of the current size and character." Harrison notes that reversing pay raises and taking away benefits already granted will be difficult. While some force cuts are in the works, Gardner believes "future chaos in Africa and the Middle East actually demands more trainers and boots on the ground not less." Add in an "ascendant" China and Gardner doubts that anything close to the maximum $850 billion in defense cuts is achievable. The debt ceiling deal included $350 billion in potential cuts to defense spending over a decade — an amount previously targeted by the Pentagon. But a failure of the bipartisan deficit committee in Congress to agree on $1.5 trillion in budget cuts by year-end would trigger another $500 billion in defense cuts.

Their ev doesn’t assume inflation
O’Hanlon, 9-13 <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, “TESTIMONY FOR THE HOUSE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE, SEPTEMBER,” September 13th 2011,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/testimonies/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/testimonies/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
In a stunning change in American policy and politics, it now appears possible that the military budget may be cut by up to a trillion dollars over a decade. This would be far more than the $400 billion in 12-year savings that President Obama had proposed in his April 13, 2011 speech that signaled the White House’s full engagement on the deficit issue. That is above and beyond savings that will result naturally, and indeed are already resulting, from troop drawdowns in Iraq and Afghanistan. And these will be real cuts. The administration’s earlier plan, as seen in President Obama’s February 2011 budget proposal to Congress for Fiscal Year 2012, had already taken away most of the growth in the longer-term military budget, reducing it to around 1 percent a year in inflation-adjusted terms. But most military costs rise about 2 percent a year above inflation. That is a well-established historical tendency due to the fact that many areas of defense activity—health care, environmental restoration, weapons purchases, pay for troops and full-time civilians—do tend to rise in cost slightly faster than the inflation rate. So it will be necessary cut forces, weapons, and operations.


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Further defense cuts causes Asian instability and resulting nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Mazza and Blumenthal, ’11 </span>[8/5/11, Michael Mazza is the program manager for AEI's annual Executive Program on National Security Policy and Strategy, and Dan Blumenthal is a current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. “Asia Needs a Larger U.S. Defense Budget”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/scholar/92]]</span>, SM]
In Washington the season of budget cuts is in full blossom. Unfortunately, leaders of both political parties may soon agree to further slash the defense budget. Yet this comes as the military is fighting an ongoing war against jihadi terrorists while also confronting a China that is using its growing military power more aggressively. The prescription should be more, not less, U.S. military power. It is easy to see how cuts will save today, but difficult to assess how much cuts will cost tomorrow. In Asia, the price will be unacceptably high. China's military rise is changing the balance of power in its neighborhood. While Washington debates how to cut America's military, China continues to spend generously on defense. Last year, the Obama administration took the first steps in a $400 billion defense spending cut, ending several crucial programs. The White House has now asked for another $400 billion in cuts. China, meanwhile, has averaged 10% annual spending increases for more than 20 years. As former Secretary of Defense Harold Brown once said of the Soviets, "When we build, they build; when we cut, they build." Beijing has the most ambitious missile program in the world--including an anti-ship ballistic missile that threatens U.S. aircraft carriers. China is also investing heavily in submarines and surface ships; stealthy fighter aircraft; and space and cyber-warfare capabilities. The equation budget cutters should ponder is that China's aggressive build-up plus American defense cuts equals Asian instability. That instability could have far-reaching consequences. America's military has ensured peace and stability in the region, made the seas safe for trade and transit, provided Asians with the political space to prosper, and guaranteed that no hostile power would again use the Pacific as an avenue of approach for an attack on American soil. Indeed, there would be no possibility of an "Asian Century" absent U.S. power. The international trade that has fueled the region's economic boom is dependent upon the immeasurable strategic tasks undertaken by the U.S. military--from keeping safe maritime shipping to reassuring friends and allies while deterring China and North Korea. The value of these daily operations is hard to price in a budget. Military planners understand this. The Defense Department is developing a new military concept called AirSea Battle, which would bolster cooperation between the Navy and Air Force in ways that are particularly relevant for meeting the challenge of a rising China. This is an expensive undertaking. The U.S. military will require next-generation bombers; large numbers of attack submarines; many fifth-generation fighters and refueling tankers; more and better surface ships; and long-range intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities. AirSea Battle requires more defense investment, not budget cuts. Spending cuts will further encumber the Navy's already withering fleet, which plays a central role in AirSea Battle. The Navy says it needs 328 ships compared to the current 284, but that goal remains out of reach. Further starving the already under-resourced Navy guarantees that the Navy will never have the number of ships it needs. The nuclear attack submarine fleet, for example, will certainly come under additional strain. The Navy's stated requirement is 48 such boats, a number that will increase with the demands of AirSea Battle. Yet if the Navy's 30-year shipbuilding plan does not receive additional funding the Navy will have substantially fewer than the 48 subs it needs. There is also no provision in the plan for surging production to meet China's own growing sub acquisitions. China has fielded on average more than two subs annually for 16 years. It now has more than 60 attack subs in its fleet, with more in the pipeline. And unlike the U.S., which spreads its fleet among the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans, China operates all of its boats in Asia. The long-term costs of defense cuts are not worth the short-term savings. If America skimps on its military, China will become the regional hegemon. One need only look to Beijing's recent behavior to imagine an Asia under Chinese domination. China has been bullying its neighbors over disputed claims in the South and East China Seas, while continuing an arms build-up across from Taiwan. In response allies and friends are asking for greater American presence--the U.S. military is obliging, but is doing more with less. Such strategic insolvency is unsustainable. Should American military power further erode, the region would face one of two unhappy futures. China could successfully pacify its neighbors and dominate Asia. America would thus fail to maintain a longstanding objective--the prevention of a hostile hegemon dominating Asia. Alternatively, Asian countries might find ways to resist Chinese pressure themselves. In this scenario, countries would arm to the teeth and form ever-shifting constellations of power. Many would develop weapons of mass destruction. Asia would look something like Europe did before World War I--but with nuclear weapons. Confronting either future tomorrow could be more expensive than properly resourcing our Pacific forces today.

Defense cuts hurt jobs – aerospace industry and manufacturing
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">NAM, ‘9-1</span> [National Association Of Manufacturers (NAM), “Manufacturers: Defense and Aerospace Sectors Vital to Manufacturing's Future”, September 1, 2011
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://news.thomasnet.com/companystory/Defense-Manufacturing-Initiative-shows-importance-to-U-S-economy-601387]]</span>, SM]

Washington, D.C. - The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) announced a defense manufacturing initiative today that will bring together manufacturers in the defense and aerospace industries and their suppliers to highlight the critical importance of the defense sector to our nation's innovation and economy. As policymakers discuss programmatic changes to the sector, manufacturers are working aggressively to illustrate their roles as innovators and creators of many of the products and technologies used to protect our nation and improve the daily lives of its citizens. Manufacturers know this sector is vital to helping our country maintain its competitive edge in the world. This initiative will be spearheaded by the NAM's Defense Manufacturing Working Group and will focus on issues such as export controls, procurement efficiencies, rare earth minerals and the extension of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) bill. The group will also work to address concerns about deep defense budget cuts in Congress that would hurt our national security and cripple a vital part of manufacturing that will affect tens of thousands of small and medium-sized manufacturers and up to 3 million workers directly and indirectly, as the ripple effects impact many broad sectors of manufacturing. "As a supplier to this industry, I know firsthand that the continued success of our defense and aerospace manufacturing sectors is critical to America's ability to compete," said Click Bond COO Collie Hutter. "Manufacturers across the supply chain, both large and small depend on the defense and aerospace industries to grow and to create high quality jobs. We cannot afford to fall behind as the world's leader at this critical time in our economic recovery." "Manufacturers fully acknowledge we have to get our fiscal house in order to ensure a healthy economy, and that includes hard choices on our spending," said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. "Those decisions must be smart decisions and should not be at the expense of our nation's competitiveness or national security or at the risk of adding to the already high unemployment rate. Much of the innovation essential to our economic development comes from important research and development in the defense and aerospace industries. Manufacturers firmly believe advanced defense and aerospace manufacturing capabilities in the U.S. should not be taken for granted because once they are gone it could take decades to rebuild them." Other countries are moving forward in developing their own defense and aerospace manufacturing industries. Brazil, China and Russia are racing to develop new aircraft to project their power internationally and continue to grow their economy through exports. It is critical that manufacturers not stand on the sidelines while other countries seek to minimize strong lead of the defense and aerospace sectors in the United States.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Even a small cut has devastating effects, and future congresses have the __ability__ to rollback the cuts, other priorities mean they won’t</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Bolton, ‘11</span> [<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/scholar/121|John R. Bolton]]</span>, August 1, 2011, “Defense and the Debt Ceiling”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/103940]]</span>]
First, they say, "Even if the committee failed to produce a single dollar in savings, Defense would be on the hook for less than $500 billion over nine years, beginning in 2013." Unquestionably, however, cuts at this level would be catastrophic. They may not be at the $900 billion level of the Reid Plan, but they are debilitating nonetheless. If that is the best argument the deal's advocates have, we are in deep trouble. Second, proponents of the deal argue that out-year defense cuts can be reversed by subsequent Congresses. Of course, the Democrats will argue precisely the same point in favoring their domestic programs, suggesting that the entire second-stage exercise is a sham. Perhaps that is the best we can hope for, but it will mean a debt-ceiling increase in the second-stage without certainty about offsetting spending cuts.
Sequestration uniquely devastates our military – increased aggregate spending hasn’t gone to the right places
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Boot, Fellow @ CFR, ’11 </span>[Max Boot, Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “Indefensible Budget Cuts,” Prepared Testimony Before the House Armed Services Committee, 2011]
Thank you for inviting me here to talk about the future of the American armed services. That future is very much in doubt at the moment. The armed forces face the most formidable enemies they have encountered in decades. These enemies do not carry guns and they do not plant IEDs. Rather they wear green eyeshades and wield complex spreadsheets. But make no mistake: the impact of budget cuts has the potential to devastate our armed forces. It will, in fact, do more damage to their fighting capacity than the Taliban, Al Qaeda, or any other external foe could possibly inflict. Already this year the budget has been cut by approximately $478 billion--$78 billion in cuts announced in January by the administration, and another $400 billion under the Budget Control Act this summer. Now we face the prospect of sequestration this fall—which could mean another $600 billion in cuts, or more, over the next decade. Hundreds of billions more will be lost assuming the disappearance of funding for Overseas Contingency Operations as we wind down operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Todd Harrison of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments estimates that in all the defense budget could decline by 31 percent over the next decade. That compares with cuts of 53 percent after the Korean War, 26 percent after the Vietnam War, and 34 percent after the end of the Cold War. might argue that there is nothing wrong with this—that we always downsize our military after the conclusion of hostilities. Leave aside the fact that hostilities have not yet ended—our troops are still in combat every day in Afghanistan and they still face the constant prospect of attack in Iraq. Moreover they continue to conduct military operations against Somalian pirates and Al Qaeda terrorists which put them in harm’s way on a regular basis. It is beyond bizarre that we are rushing to spend the peace dividended at a time when we are not actually at peace. But, again, leave that aside for a moment, and simply consider the consequences of past drawdowns (as I laid out in the Washington Post last year). After the American Revolution, our armed forces shrank from 35,000 men in 1778 (plus tens of thousands of militiamen) to just 10,000 by 1800. The result was that we were ill-prepared to fight the Whiskey Rebellion, the quasi-war with France, the Barbary wars and the War of 1812 -- all of which might have been averted if the new republic had had an army and a navy that commanded the respect of prospective enemies, foreign and domestic. After the Civil War, our armed forces shrank from more than a million men in 1865 to just 50,000 in 1870. This made the failure of Reconstruction inevitable -- there were simply too few federal troops left to enforce the rule of law in the South and to overcome the ruthless terrorist campaign waged by the Ku Klux Klan and other white supremacist groups. Segregation would remain a blot on U.S. history for another century. After World War I, our armed forces shrank from 2.9 million men in 1918 to 250,000 in 1928. The result? World War II became more likely and its early battles more costly. Imagine how Hitler might have acted in 1939 had several hundred thousand American troops been stationed in France and Poland. Under such circumstances, it is doubtful he would ever have launched his blitzkrieg. Likewise, Japanese leaders might have thought twice about attacking Pearl Harbor if their homeland had been in imminent danger of being pulverized by thousands of American bombers and their fleet sunk by dozens of American aircraft carriers. After World War II, our armed forces shrank from 12 million men in 1945 to 1.4 million in 1950. (The Army went from 8.3 million soldiers to 593,000.) The result was that ill-trained, ill-armed draftees were almost pushed off the Korean Peninsula by the North Korean invasion. The very first American ground force to encounter the invaders—Task Force Smith—was routed and decimated because it did not have enough ammunition to stop North Korean tanks. Kim Il Sung was probably emboldened to aggression in the first place by the rapid dissolution of America's wartime strength and indications from parsimonious policymakers that South Korea was outside our "defense perimeter." After the Korean War, our armed forces as a whole underwent a smaller decline -- from 3.6 million men in 1952 to 2.5 million in 1959 -- but the Army lost almost half its active-duty strength in those years. President Dwight Eisenhower's New Look relied on relatively inexpensive nuclear weapons to deter the Soviet Union and its allies, rather than a large, costly standing army. As a result the Army that was sent to Vietnam was not prepared to fight guerrillas -- an enemy that could not be defeated with a hand-held Davy Crockett nuclear launcher. After the Vietnam War, our armed forces shrank from 3.5 million personnel in 1969 to 2 million in 1979. This was the era of the "hollow army," notorious for its inadequate equipment, discipline, training and morale. Our enemies were emboldened to aggression, ranging from the anti-American revolutions in Nicaragua and Iran to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. We are still paying a heavy price for the Iranian Revolution, with Iran on the verge of going nuclear. After the end of the Cold War and the Persian Gulf War, our armed forces shrank from 2.1 million personnel in 1989 to 1.3 million in 1999; the Army went from 769,000 soldiers to 479,000. The result: an Army desperately overstretched by its subsequent deployments. Part of the reason too few troops were sent to stabilize Iraq in 2003 was that senior officials thought there simply weren't enough to go round. We are still suffering the consequences of the post-Cold War drawdown. The Navy, down from 546 ships in 1990 to 284 today (the lowest level since 1930), is finding it hard to fight Somali pirates, police the Persian Gulf and deter Chinese expansionism in the Western Pacific. The Army and Marine Corps are forced to maintain a punishing operational tempo that drives out too many bright young officers and NCOs. The Air Force, which has been reduced from 82 fighter squadrons in 1990 to 39 today, has to fly decadesold aircraft until they are falling apart. The average age of our tanker aircraft is 47 years, of strategic bombers 34 years, and some older fighter aircraft are literally falling out of the sky. The bipartisan Quadrennial Defense Review Indepdent Panel led by Stephen Hadley and William Perry found last year “a growing gap between our interests and our military capability to protect those interests in the face of a complex and challenging security environment.” The panel further noted: “There is increased operational tempo for a force that is much smaller than it was during the years of the Cold War. In addition, the age of major military systems has increased within all the services, and that age has been magnified by wear and tear through intensified use…. The Department of Defense now faces the urgent need to recapitalize large parts of the force. Although this is a long-standing problem, we believe the Department needs to come to grips with this requirement. The general trend has been to replace more with fewer more-capable systems. We are concerned that, beyond a certain point, quality cannot substitute for quantity.” The Hadley-Perry commission recommended that “as the force modernizes, we will need to replace inventory on at least a one-for-one basis, with an upward adjustment in the number of naval vessels and certain air and space assets.” It also recommended maintaining the size of our current ground forces because “the increased capability of our ground forces has not reduced the need for boots on the ground in combat zones.” Both of those recommendations are absolutely right. And both are increasingly difficult to carry out given the magnitude of defense cuts already agreed upon. They will become an utterly impossibility if sequesteration occurs. You have heard the services say that they can deal with the current level of cuts but that’s only because they’re being good soldiers. In reality even the current cutbacks are already cutting into muscle; sequestration, if it were to occur, would be akin to lopping off entire limbs. In either case American power will not survive in its present form. Those who argue in favor of cuts point out that defense spending has doubled in real terms since 9/11. That’s true but much of the spending has gone to current operations, personnel costs, ballooning health care costs, and other necessities—it has not been used to recapitalize our aging inventory of weapons systems or to substantially expand a ground force that was cut by a third since the Cold War. Instead, even as we continue to fight in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Defense Department has been eliminating or reducing one system are another. Defense Secretary Bob Gates closed headquarters, eliminated general-officer slots, and even shut down the whole U.S. Joint Forces Command. He cancelled or capped 30 procurement programs that, if taken to completion, would have cost more than $300 billion.



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Kritiks-Race K]]Race K</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 1]]1NC Version 1</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Technology has become the new American theology. The affirmative’s techno-fetish ignores the SUBTEXT OF WHITENESS at the core of their science.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dinerstein 2k6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dinerstein, Joel [Assistant Professor of English at Tulane University ] “Technology and Its Discontents: On the Verge of the Posthuman” American Quarterly, Volume 58, Number 3, Septermber 2006, pp. 569-570)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Immediately after 9/11, ….. By the conclusion, I hope to have shown that the posthuman is an escape from the panhuman.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">McQUAID</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k7</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age. ….. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This essay addresses the fight to make America’s space program—like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">DR. CRENSHAW</span> Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>

This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>. ……. Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">MEMMI </span>Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">2000</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, ….. If it is accepted, we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 2]]1NC Version 2</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">White supremacy is the unnamed political system that shapes the modern world. Our Hobbseian social contract is really a RACIAL contract which ENFORCES this system. We must aggressively ENGAGE a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLS</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>**
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today ….. Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">McQUAID</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k7</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age…… </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">—like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The ignorance of these racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through EPISTEMOLOGICAL ETHNOCENTRISM where any achievement deemed to fall OUTSIDE the Euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of EXPLORATION, DISCOVERY and EXTRA-TERRESTRIALITY are used to DEMONIZE non-European space.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLS</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">There are two main dimensions to this norming: the epistemological and the moral. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">……. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">And the society they saw themselves founding was, correspondingly, sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">DR. CRENSHAW</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>. …… Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">MEMMI </span>Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">2000</span></span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, …… True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 3]]1NC Version 3</span>==== 

White supremacy is the unnamed political system that shapes the modern world. Our Hobbseian social contract is really a RACIAL contract which ENFORCES this system. We must aggressively ENGAGE a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">MILLS</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today…… Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.</span>


Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">McQUAID</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2k7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age. …….. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span>

Their space policy perceives American history as a straight line of inevitability that links westward expansion to the colonization of space.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Billings 2006</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Linda Billings is a Ph.D. Research Associate at the SETI Institute in Washington, DC. Linda has a Ph.D. in mass communication. She specializes in research, analysis, commentary on space policy, and the history of rationales for space exploration. She has more than 30 years of experience in the field of communication and 25 years of experience in aerospace; “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” presented at the IASTS 21st Annual Conference February 3-4, 2006, Baltimore, MD; AL]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The social, political, economic and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">cultural context for the U.S. civil space program has changed radically since the 1960s…… the blinders worn to screen the past have proven to be just as effective at distorting the view of the future.”</span>

The ignorance of these racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through EPISTEMOLOGICAL ETHNOCENTRISM where any achievement deemed to fall OUTSIDE the Euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of EXPLORATION, DISCOVERY and EXTRA-TERRESTRIALITY are used to DEMONIZE non-European space.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">MILLS</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">There are two main dimensions to this norming: the epistemological and the moral. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">……. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">And the society they saw themselves founding was, correspondingly, sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."</span>

The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.
We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">DR. CRENSHAW</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>……. Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.
Racism is a decision rule – moral obligation to come first
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">MEMMI </span>Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">2000</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission………. If it is accepted, we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

Hegemony is UNSUSTAINABLE and only serves to JUSTIFY domestic racism by keeping the oppressed at the brink of starvation.\

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__MARSHALL__</span>** Research Assc with the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG) **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__2k10__</span>**
Andrew Gavin-currently studying Political Economy and History @ Simon Fraser University; War, Racism and the Empire of Poverty: When Empire Hits Home, Part 1; GLOBAL RESEARCH, March 22;
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleld=18263|www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleld=18263]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the American Empire is in decline……. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The war is waged by the ruling group against its own subjects and its object is not the victory</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">XO CP</span>=== 



Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects enacting through the appropriate agencies



Contention 1: Solvency



Executive orders effectively implement policy with the force of law.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 01</span> [Kenneth, Professor of Political Science @ University of Wisconsin – Madison, //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With the Stroke of a Pen]</span>//

These chronicles of presidential decisiveness and unilateral action are at odds …..“the President’s lawmaking role is substantial, persistent, and in many cases disturbing.”8



<span class="cite" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pres powers on the brink – Obama has little presidential influence – Cowed by conservatives, supports those who backstab him, and betrays campaign promises</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Agonist, </span>7/6/<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>(Aurelius, Freelance writer, “The CV Is Hardening: Obama is Weak”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://agonist.org/aurelius/20100706/the_cv_is_hardening_obama_is_weak]]</span>)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">"Weak," "wimp," "soft." ….. </span>what they're doing during the 2012 Democratic primaries.

Executive orders are key to presidential powers – they control policies and set agendas.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 01</span> [Kenneth, Professor in the Department of Poli Sci @ University of Wisconsin-Madison, //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Executive Orders and Presidential Power</span>//, pg. 28-29]



This theoretical perspective offered by the new institutional economics literature provides …… within a particular structure context over which they have no control.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Increased presidential powers are key to solve warming</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">PCAP 8</span> (Presidential Climate Action Project, Nonpartisan Project at the University of Colorado Denver, “Climate Action Brief: The Use of Presidential Power”, 2008 is the last date cited, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.climateactionproject.com/docs/briefs/Climate_Brief_Presidential_Power.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">This legacy could lead the Congress……. And, of course, the President has the bully pulpit.</span>



Warming causes extinction-melting ice caps.

Tickell,’08 [Tickell, The Guardian, journalist, author of Kyoto 2, climate expert, 8/11/2008, Oliver, "On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction," <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>]

We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra. But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the idea that we could adapt</span> to a 4C rise <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">is absurd and dangerous…… </span>Many scientists warn that this historical event may be analogous to the present: the <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">warming</span> caused by human emissions could <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">propel us towards a</span>similar<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">hothouse Earth.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative Evidence-Counterplans-EU CP]]EU CP</span>=== 

TEXT: The European Union should fund the European Space Agency to increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects based on United States asteroid detection technology. The ESA should model all technology based off United States technology



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">CP solves the case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Brauer and Monte 2005</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Gerard and Luca del, Gerard is the head of the ESA, “European Space Research and Development for the Security and Military Sectors” pdf)</span>

The above described scenario suggests that the potential contribution ……<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">.. </span>prototypes, demonstrators or space borne infrastructure components to serve defence requirements.



ESA’s project – Don Quijote – can effectively deflect asteroids

Roberts 9 <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Karlene H., PhD, Has School of Business, University of California, Berkeley, Chair, Center for Catastrophic Risk Management, University of California, August 2009, Natural Hazards Observer, “The Catastrophe We Can Prevent: the Near Earth Orbit Problem,”[[http://ccrm.berkeley.edu/pdfs_papers/9.09/Roberts_Near_Earth_Object_Problem3.pdf]] MGE)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The European Space Agency (ESA) has addressed one part of the deflection problem. Its project, Don Quijote, is a mission concept addressing the projectile proposal. A non threatening asteroid would be identified. A spacecraft would fly out and observe the asteroid for some period of time. A second spacecraft would then fly out and ram the asteroid and the first spacecraft would continue to measure changes in asteroid trajectory, etc</span>. This program is as yet unfunded.

===UN CP=== 
---1NC
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The United States State Department should initiate multilateral measures in order to <plan’s mandates> through the United Nations. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">US must commit to international multilateralism __through__ the United Nations</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hadani, ’10</span> [2010, Driss El Hadani, “How to engage current and future space actors”, Chapter 6 of Fair and Responsible Use of Space: An International Perspective, pp. 146-153]

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The United Nations through the Committee on Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS)..</span>.updated and reinforced to serve as the framework for the fair and responsible use of space.156</span>

===<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Code of Conduct CP</span>=== 




**The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations, including China, that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space, including the development of Operationally Responsive Space. The United States federal government should adapt a policy of not initiating a first strike on the People’s Republic of China.**



**Code of conduct solves weaponization – even if there are no enforcement procedures, the creation of international norms deters violators, and a focus on actions solves all their verification concerns**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Krepon, Hitchens, and Katz-Hyman, ’11</span>** [February 2011, Michael Krepon is the President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Theresa Hitchens is Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, and Michael Katz-Hyman is a Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects “Preserving Freedom of Action in Space: Realizing the Potential and Limits of U.S. Spacepower”, Chapter 20 in “Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays”, SM]

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">We view a code of conduct for responsible spacefaring nations as a …. even more useful when drawn together as a coherent regime.</span>



**CP solves China – they are not solely motivated by national security – a code of conduct creates a new cooperative relationship**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Krepon,’08</span>** [Michael Krepon is president of the Henry Stimson Center and Christopher Clary “Space as a Strategic Asset Twilight War: the Folly of U.S. Space Dominance, and the Politics of Space Security: Strategic Restraint and the Pursuit of National Interests,” The Non-Proliferation Review, November 1, 2008, Vol. 15 No. 3, 549-554, SM]

The Chinese and U.S. ASAT tests are important indicators ….. Moore’s prescriptions for a new treaty will not be easy to implement.

===Anchor Tenant / Loan CP=== 
Text: The Department of Defense should replace current spending on fossil fuels by agreeing to pay at least one dollar per kilowatt-hour for space-based solar power services developed by the private sector. The United States federal government should not develop space-based solar power. The United States federal government should offer long-term, low-interest, guaranteed loans to any private company that expresses interest in investing in space-based solar power.
CP critical to initiate a SBSP transition – #1 driver
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NSSO, 7 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]])</span>
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> industry has stated that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the #1 driver and </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">requirement </span>****<span style="font-size: 16px;">…….. </span>**</span>NextView acquisition approach pioneered by the National GeoSpatial<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8px;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">imaging Agency.</span>

Loan guarantees solve better than the aff
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bova, 1AC author, 8</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">–award-winning editor and an executive in the aerospace industry Ben, “TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT From Ben Bova,” 10-2008, [[http://www.benbova.com/presidentltr1.html]]</span>

Once you enter the White House you will face enormous problems: ……….. that will deliver the gigawatts we need to lower our imports of foreign oil and begin to move away from <span style="font-size: 8px;">fossil fuels.</span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]