[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Iowa City West (IA) - Jeffrey Ding & Liam Hancock#http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2011-2012+-+Iowa+City+West+%28IA%29+-+Jeffrey+Ding+%26+Liam+Hancock|Back to ICW HD Main Page]]
=Generic CPs= 
==Russia CP== 
===NEO 1NC Shell=== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The government of the Russian Federation should</span>**
* **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects including both ground- and space-based tracking measures</span>**
* **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">colonize Mars</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Russian space program can detect and deflect asteroids</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2010</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(RusData Line, “Russia is developing equipment for exploration of a potentially dangerous asteroid,” May 19)</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Russian scientists are promising to develop ...</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">stressed the head of the space agency.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russia has capabilities to land on Mars or the Moon</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ZAK 2011</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Anatoly, Russian space program: a decade review (2000-2010), June 8, http://www.russianspaceweb.com/russia_2000_2010.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Not coincidently, during 2005 and 2006, ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">2035 period, pushing lunar exploration to 2030-2040.</span>
==ESA/EU CP== 
===SSA 1NC Shell=== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The European Space Agency should</span>**

* **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">develop an advanced fully operational SSA system</span>**
* **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">substantially expand its debris tracking system</span>**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The EU can develop a fully operational SSA system that allows international collaboration</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pannu 2011</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Aman, Space Security and European Union -Leader, Decision Maker or Enabler?, Last date modified June 1 2011, Aerospace & Defence Consulting Analyst, Frost & Sullivan</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Attaining full operational capability</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(FOC)</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">will ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">the broader international framework in the future.</span>







<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">CP accesses debris detection best</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Vieru</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 6-18-20</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">11</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Tudor, Science editor for Softpedia (a site that specializes in covering the latest science and technology news), ESA Space Assets Defense Program Gets Boost, Softpedia, [[http://news.softpedia.com/news/ESA-Space-Assets-Defense-Program-Gets-Boost-206891.shtml]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">According to ESA, the main goal of the ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">solving half the problem.</span>
==<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">'We' PIC</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC Shell</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jeffrey and I REJECT the word ‘we’ in the 1ac- replace it with you and I.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collective pronouns deny individuality- this hurts autonomy</span>**
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Agrawal and</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Maheswaran 05</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Nidhi Agrawal,Associate Professor of Marketing at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University; Paganelli Bull Professor of Marketing at New York University Stern School of Business; they originally wrote this in an article in 2005, this is a summary of that article that cites their claims; “Self construal”, http://www.psych-it.com.au/Psychlopedia/article.asp?id=76]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Agrawal and Maheswaran (2005) argued extended...</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">with your friends and family".</span>__



<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Autonomy is key to value to life</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Harris 3</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (John, “Consent and end of life decisions” Journal of Medical Ethics, Volume 29, pg. 10-11)</span>





<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">When </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">I suggest</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> that these </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">elements...</span>//
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">misguided or even self harming.</span>

==Japan CP== 
===Solar Sails 1NC=== 
**Japan would do the aff better: they’ve already deployed solar sails, and have fixed the major problems facing NASA.**
Patel, 10<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(9/2/10. Peter—writer for Astrobiology Magazine. “Solar Sail Spacecraft could explore beyond solar system” Space.com. http://www.space.com/9051-solar-sail-spacecraft-explore-solar-system.html)</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The result was NanoSail-D, a diamond-shaped ...</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for tough, lightweight materials for the support structure. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Japan competitiveness in the space industry promotes U.S.-Japan relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Logsdon, 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John, Former director of the space policy institute at the George Washington University, “US-Japanese Space Relations at a Crossroad,” </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.sciencemag.org/content/255/5042/294.full.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, KT)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">MITI</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">approach could </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">present an ...</span>
<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">strengthens U.S.-Japanese ties overall</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. C</span>



**The alliance is key to East Asia power projection**

**Calder 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kent E., director of the Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies. “Pacific Alliance” Page:4. 8/24/2009//ts)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">For the United States, the logic of alliance on geopolitical grounds ...</span>
__flexibly pursuing the Iraq War.__ 



**The impact is great power nuclear conflict**

**Gray, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6. Interstate War, Down but Far from Out ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23 </span>



===2NC Japan Solves Solar Sails=== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Japan’s solar sails have fewer tech failures and travel further than current NASA efforts</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Phillips 11.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(1/24/11. Dr. Tony Phillips, writer for NASA. NASA. “Solar Sail Stunner” http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2011/24jan_solarsail/)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NanoSail-D spent the previous month and ...</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. Eventually, this brings it down." </span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Japan can do solar sails</span>
**Shay 10 – writer for Reuters and Time**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/21/10, Christopher, Japan: The New Pioneer of the Final Frontier?,http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1997768,00.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The country that invented the ... </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">considering raising the budget for Hayabusa II. </span>


===2NC Net Benefit Work=== 
**Plan causes competition for engineering talent**
<span class="Underline">**Anselmo 7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Aerospace industry analyst for boeing, studies international aerospace competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph C, “Vanishing Act,”2/5/7, [[http://www.deloitte.com/assets/Dcom-Shared%20Assets/Documents/us_mfg_aviationweekreprint2__140207.pdf]], CJC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the swelling ranks of ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">learn skills and on-the-job experience more quickly. </span>



<span class="Underline">**An independent Japan is crucial to deterring North Korea proliferation**</span>

**Preble,** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">200</span>**6**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute [Christopher, April 18, “Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6335, accessed 7/14/10]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The North Korean crisis may have provided the ...</span>
__serious challenges to__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span>__regional security__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> order. </span>




==Private Sector CP's== 
===Coercion Net Benefit=== 
====1NC Coercion==== 
**NASA fails and is coercive – the CP allows for scientific advancement**
<span class="Underline">**Ludlow, 2008**</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Lawrence, freelance writer with an MA and BA from University of Toronto, “NASA, the Aerospace Welfare Queen”, Strike the Root, April 30, http://www.strike-the-root.com/81/ludlow/ludlow2.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The National Aeronautics and Space Administration </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">(NASA)...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">space. The only question is when. </span>



**Coercion is never justified**

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Pilon, 1</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Roger, Vice President for Legal Affairs and Director of the Center for Constitutional Studies at the Cato Institute, “Two Kinds of Rights,” 12-6-2001, www.cato.org/current/terrorism/pubs/pilon-011206.html, JMP)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">As the Declaration of Independence says, ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">noted, </span>__end__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">often </span>__with neither____.__ 



===Prizes CP=== 
====1NC Solar Sails==== 
**The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should establish ten ten-million dollar prizes for the development of solar sails technology.** 


**A Solar Sail Centennial Challenge would solve solar sail demonstration** 
**Friedman 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Engineer for the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Co-Founder of the Planetary Society (December 2, Planetary Society, “Project: Solar Sailing”, http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/ss_update_20051202.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">We are considering some minor modifications ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to demonstrate controlled solar sail flight. </span>







<span class="verdana">**Prizes are cost effective and generate new ideas**</span>

<span class="verdana">**Shachman 6.** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(4/5/6. Noah writes about technology, national security, and politics for The New York Times, The Chicago Tribune, Popular Mechanics, and Wired magazine. “Like to Tinker? NASA’s looking for you” The New York Times. Lexis.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Until recently, the chances that ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">to attract the bicycle mechanics.'' </span>



====2NC Solar Sails Solvency==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The free market has spearheaded the effort for solar sails on a smaller scale</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cain 4.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (11/10/4. Fraser, publisher of Universe Today, a website dedicated to astronomy and space exploration news, he studied engineering at the University of British Columbia. “Launch Date Set for Solar Sail. Universe Today. http://www.universetoday.com/10032/launch-date-set-for-solar-sail/)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The [[http://www.universetoday.com/72344/cosmos-photos/|__Cosmos__]]1 team announced today that ...</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">built by Malin Space Science Systems. </span>

**Private companies are comparatively better at building solar sails: raise public awareness, more room for creativity, no bureaucracy**
**Vulpetti et al., 8.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Giovanni, physcisit, chair of the Interstellar Space Exploration Committee. Les Johnson: Deputy Manager for the Advanced Concepts Office at the NASA George C. Marshall Space Flight Center. Gregory L. MatloffL assistant professor of physics at New York City College of Technology (NYCCT), coordinates the astronomy program at that institution, has consulted for the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center. “Progress to Date” Springer New York.)</span>
Private Initiatives
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The early development of ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">similar to a smaller-scale version of NASA ISP. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Private sector willing to work for “first to market advantage” or deals from NASA</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Carroll 10.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(8/9/10. Kieran, Ph.d. An engineer with experience working on satellites and developer of the solar sail system for 20 years. “A Milestone for solar sailing” The Space Review. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1677/1]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Competition, community, and celebrating IKAROS </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Since then, ...</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">“a rising tide lifts all boats,” is peculiarly apt. </span>
====2NC Doesn't Link to Spending==== 
**Link differential - The gov’t doesn’t have to pay for prizes until they’re done** 
**Stine 2009** – Specialist in Science and Technology Policy (Deborah D, “Federally Funded innovation Inducement Prizes” , CRS Report for Congress, June 29th, [[http://www.crs.gov/|www.crs.gov]])
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Competitors</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, in general, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">receive no funding from...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">more challenging such actions are to take. </span>


===DOD Anchor Tenant=== 
====1NC SPS Shell==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should not develop space-based solar power. The Department of Defense should replace current spending on fossil fuels by agreeing to pay at least one dollar per kilowatt-hour for space-based solar power services developed by the private sector.** 


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Being an anchor tenant is the only way to create investment for SPS</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NSSO 7</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf, FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">FINDING: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The SBSP Study Group ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">by the National GeoSpatial</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 6pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">imaging Agency. </span>


====2NC Solvency Work==== 
**The DOD makes SBSP cost-competitive without spending money**
<span class="Underline">**Betancourt 10**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Kiatar Betancourt, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Legal Challenges Facing Solar Power Satellites”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/betancourt.html, FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Military Interest: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The U.S. military...</span>
costs<span class="Underline"> of SBSP </span>lower<span class="Underline"> over time.</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The CP would catalyze private sector development</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NSSO 7 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf , FS)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The SBSP Study Group found ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">demonstrate commercial feasibility of advanced energy technologies.” </span>










=Case Specific CP's= 
==Near Space Platform CP (v. ORS)== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">TEXT: The United States Federal Government should develop near space platforms</span>**



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CP solves best</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown 6</span>** __<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Researcher at College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research, & Education, 6(Kendall, Lieutenant Colonel USAF, Ph.D. & Researcher at College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research, & Education at Maxwell Airforce Base & Liquid-Rocket-Engine System Engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Fligth Center, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for t</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">vehicles</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">might be a better solution.</span>__



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The HLV in the ORS system causes offensive counterspace</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown, 6</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Lt Col, USAFR, PhD liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine (6/1/06, Kendall K., Air & Space Power Journal, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">to Space for the US Air Force?,” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html, Sawyer)</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The HLV</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">’s flexibility (the reusable ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">attaining and maintaining space superiority).</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And they guarantee miscalc and accidental nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown, 6</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Lt Col, USAFR, PhD liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine (6/1/06, Kendall K., Air & Space Power Journal, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">to Space for the US Air Force?,” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html, Sawyer)</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Inclusion of a global strike capability ...</span>__

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">he US Air Force?,” Air & Space Power Journal, Summer)</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Pe</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">rhaps we won’t need an HLV ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">asking the world to trust us in a time of hostilities.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it leads to preemption – turns case</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown, 6</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Lt Col, USAFR, PhD liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine (6/1/06, Kendall K., Air & Space Power Journal, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">to Space for the US Air Force?,” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html, Sawyer)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The political environment in</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a...</span>__
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">of the ORS system? Probably so.</span>__
==SPS Global Distribution CP (v. Aff w/o fiat) also <3 DML== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the United States federal government should develop and demonstrate space-based solar power for global distribution.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Two billion people have no access to energy – plan solves</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bradbrook 5</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Bonython Professor of Law, University of Adelaide, Australia</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Adrian, “Access to Energy Services in a Human Rights Framework,” [[http://www.un.org/esa/sustdev/sdissues/energy/op/parliamentarian_forum/bradbrook_hr.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The report emanating from CSD-9 recognised ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, held in Johannesburg in September 2002.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A paradigm of energy justice is key to assist the energy-oppressed poor</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Guruswamy 10 –</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Nicholas Doman Professor of Law, Director for the Center for Energy and Environmental Security, University of Colorado at Boulder</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Lakshman, “Energy Justice and Sustainable Development,” 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 231, lexis, dml)</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sustainable Development</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">("SD") - an expression of distributive justice...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">EOP to SD must be re-affirmed.</span>

==Ground-Based Tracking CP (v. NEO)== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially expand its ground-based Near Earth Object detection system.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Expanding Spaceguard, PANSTARRS, LSST, Arecibo, and other systems solves NEO detection</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bucknam and Gold 08</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, Deputy Dir for Plans in the Policy Planning Office of the Office of the US Secretary of Defense, Colonel USAF, PhD in War Studies from U of London, BS in physics, MS in materials science and engineering from Virginia Tech & Robert, Chief Technologist for the Space Department at the Applied Physics Laboratory of Johns Hopkins “Asteroid Threat? The Problem of Planetary Defence,” Survival vol. 50 no. 5 | 2008 | pp. 141–156)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In 1998,</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA began the Spaceguard</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Survey...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that could handle 18,000 PHOs.</span>




<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Avoids spending and politics</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reich 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Eugenie covers physics, science policy, and alleged scientific misconduct. She has published a book on scientific fraud and was a Knight Science Journalism Fellow at MIT. Before joining Nature, she was a features editor at New Scientist and a researcher at the BBC. She has a BA in physics and philosophy from the University of Oxford., “ NASA panel weighs asteroid danger,” 8 September 2010 | Nature 467, 140-141 (2010))</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ball Aerospace and Technologies Corporation, a manufacturer ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">effect start from scratch</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">", he says.</span>


==Strato-Solar CP (v. SBSP)== 
===1NC Shell=== 
<span class="Underline">**TEXT: The United States federal government should develop stratosphere based solar power.**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

<span class="Underline">**The counterplan solves the case without going to space—StratoSolar is cheap and scalable—it could meet all of humanity’s energy needs.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Henson 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Keith Henson, engineer and scientist, founder of the L5 Society—the precursor to the National Space Foundation, famous critic of Scientology, holds a degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Arizona, 2011 (“An Idea for Inexpensive Electricity: Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles above the Earth,” The Oil Drum—a web-based, interactive energy, peak oil and sustainability think tank and community devoted to the discussion of energy issues and their impact on society facilitated by the Institute for the Study of Energy and Our Future, September 2nd, Available Online at http://www.theoildrum.com/node/8323, Accessed 09-10-2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Why use a tethered approach, 12 miles up...</span>
1.5 cents per kWh<span class="Underline"> when mature. </span>


Net benefit is GEO DA (Link Later)
===2NC AT: Perm do the CP=== 
<span class="Underline">**Here’s evidentiary support: the counterplan is functionally different than the plan—it’s a distinct technology.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Henson 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Keith Henson, engineer and scientist, founder of the L5 Society—the precursor to the National Space Foundation, famous critic of Scientology, holds a degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Arizona, 2011 (“An Idea for Inexpensive Electricity: Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles above the Earth,” The Oil Drum—a web-based, interactive energy, peak oil and sustainability think tank and community devoted to the discussion of energy issues and their impact on society facilitated by the Institute for the Study of Energy and Our Future, September 2nd, Available Online at http://www.theoildrum.com/node/8323, Accessed 09-10-2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A few months ago, I wrote about ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">being done at a company called StratoSolar.</span>





**The mesosphere is between 36-51 miles above the surface**

**National Weather Service, 11** (“Layers of the Atmosphere”, 2/11, [[http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream/atmos/layers.htm|http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream//atmos/layers.htm]])



**Layers of the Atmosphere**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">The...</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, atoms and molecules escape into space and satellites orbit the earth. </span>



===2NC Solvency Work=== 
<span class="Underline">**There’s no extreme weather in the stratosphere—buoyancy effectively stabilizes StratoSolar platforms.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kelly 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Edmund Kelly, President of StratoSolar Inc., former Founder and Vice President of Engineering at Orion Multisystems, former Founder and Chief Technology Officer at Transmeta, former Distinguished Engineer at Sun Microsystems, former Senior Engineer at Convergent Technologies Inc., former Principal Engineer at Kaiser Electronics, holds a degree in Engineering from University College Dublin, interviewed by Rikki Stancich of CSP Today, 2011 (“StratoSolar: Taking CSP to new heights,” CSP Today—a publication covering the Concentrated Solar Thermal Power industry, July 11th, Available Online at http://social.csptoday.com/qa/stratosolar-taking-csp-new-heights, Accessed 09-10-2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">CSP Today: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">StratoSolar is a novel ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the top 5km of the light pipe. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Putting satellites in the low stratosphere solves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wang 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Brian Wang, Director of Research at Next Big Future—a science and technology blog, member of the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology Task Force, Senior Associate at the Foresight Institute, holds a degree in computer science and an MBA, 2011 (“Stratosolar for concentrated solar power that is 15 times lower cost,” Next Big Future—a science and technology blog, February 19th, Available Online at http://nextbigfuture.com/2011/02/stratosolar-for-concentrated-solar.html, Accessed 09-10-2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A StratoSolar concentrator uses very little material due...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">alternative including existing fossil fuel plants. </span>


<span class="Underline">**15X Efficiency advantage over ground-based solar power**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wang 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Brian Wang, Director of Research at Next Big Future—a science and technology blog, member of the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology Task Force, Senior Associate at the Foresight Institute, holds a degree in computer science and an MBA, 2011 (“Stratosolar for concentrated solar power that is 15 times lower cost,” Next Big Future—a science and technology blog, February 19th, Available Online at http://nextbigfuture.com/2011/02/stratosolar-for-concentrated-solar.html, Accessed 09-10-2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Why it comes at a reasonable cost: ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">alternative including existing fossil fuel plants.</span>



<span class="Underline">**And StratoSolar solves the problems with terrestrial solar—coverage, scale, and no fuel cost.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Westenhaus 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Brian Westenhaus, President at Carbon Meridians, Inc., author of New Energy and Fuel—a blog about alternative energy, 2011 (“Is This The Optimal Solar Solution?,” New Energy and Fuel—a blog about alternative energy, July 11th, Available Online at http://newenergyandfuel.com/http:/newenergyandfuel/com/2011/07/01/is-this-the-optimal-solar-solution/, Accessed 09-10-2011)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The interesting advantages begin with...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and maybe pay for the house as well. </span>



<span class="Underline">**StratoSolar can be deployed more quickly than SSP—functioning within three years and scaled up in five.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kelly 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Edmund Kelly, President of StratoSolar Inc., former Founder and Vice President of Engineering at Orion Multisystems, former Founder and Chief Technology Officer at Transmeta, former Distinguished Engineer at Sun Microsystems, former Senior Engineer at Convergent Technologies Inc., former Principal Engineer at Kaiser Electronics, holds a degree in Engineering from University College Dublin, interviewed by Rikki Stancich of CSP Today, 2011 (“StratoSolar: Taking CSP to new heights,” CSP Today—a publication covering the Concentrated Solar Thermal Power industry, July 11th, Available Online at http://social.csptoday.com/qa/stratosolar-taking-csp-new-heights, Accessed 09-10-2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">CSP Today: What level of interest has ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rapidly to be a significant source of energy within five years. </span>

==4 Ways to Solve Debris CP <3 Rachel (v. Debris)== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**The United States federal government should**
* **substantially increase its development and deployment of Aerogel**
* **develop 12 ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminators**
* <span class="Underline">**deploy nanosatellites based off of the CubeSail demonstration to remove debris**</span>
* **establish an Orbital Debris Recycling and Removal Fund.**

**Best Way to Capture Space Debris is Aerogel – sustains impact and captures small debris**
<span class="Underline">**Burchell 06** – PHD in planetary physics</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mark J. Burchell, May 2006, COSMIC DUST COLLECTION IN AEROGEL, Vol. 34: 385-418, pg 406) </span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Aerogel has</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">now been used for almost ...</span>__
__<span style="background-color: yellow;">based on captured cosmic dust.</span>__



<span class="Underline">**EDDE solves all debris in LEO in 7 years— propellantless and sustainable**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Pearson 10 –** </span>President of STAR, Inc., a small business in Mount Pleasant, SC he founded in 1998 that has developed aircraft and spacecraft technology under contracts to Air Force, NASA, DARPA, and NIAC, Mr. Pearson has degrees in engineering and geology, and is the author of nearly 100 technical articles, including invited articles for //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Encyclopaedia Britannica</span>// and //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New Scientist</span>//

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jerome Pearson,</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 14 January 2010.; Accessed 6/20/11; “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR”; </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA; http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminator ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">removal of all large debris objects in LEO.</span>



**Nano Satellites attached with sails can deorbit debris**

**O’Neil 10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian O’Neil, astrophysicist and writer for Discovery News, Cube-sails to drag space junk from space, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://news.discovery.com/space/cubesails-to-drag-space-junk-from-orbit.html]]</span>) ASingh</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Nano satellite concept</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, designed ...</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">it opens its sail, pulling the junk from space. </span>__

==IASDCC CP (v. Debris)== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government should advocate within the Inter-Agency Space Debris Coordination Committee the following policies</span>**
* **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Adopting clear liability and enforcement mechanisms</span>**
* **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Creating a detailed register of space-objects as well as end-of-life policies</span>**
* **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Fostering a collective awareness of space traffic</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">These regulations solve debris collisions and the potential negative effects of miscalculation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pasco 6</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Xavier Pasco fellow at the Space Policy Institute in the George Washington University he is in charge of the Department "Technology, Space and Security at the Foundation for research and strategy PhD in political science from the university of Paris July 2006“A European Approach to Space Security” Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland [[http://mail.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/pasco2006.pdf]]x ZM]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Reinforcing legal rules in space will ...</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">no first deployment of ASATs .</span>



**This international effort spurs specific debris removal programs that solve the affirmative**

**David 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - research associate with the Secure World Foundation, winner of the </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">National Space Club Press Award</span>//

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, October, Aerospace America, “Space traffic management”, http://www.aerospaceamerica.org/Documents/Aerospace%20America%20PDFs%20(2009)/Aerospace%20America_OCT2009.pdf) RA</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The optimistic message from Marshall Kaplan...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with every launch campaign,” he concludes. </span>

==Inflatable Electron Power (v. SPS)== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The United States federal government should deploy inflatable space-based free space electron power</span>**

**Collecting electrons instead of photons solves better than the aff**

**__Thomas ‘8__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael E. Thomas, CEO, President, and Chairman of Colossal Storage Corporation, over 25 years in microelectronics, “Renewable - Free Energy for the World – Forever,” 7-21-2008, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.prlog.org/10091881-renewable-free-energy-for-the-world-forever.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Wireless power transmission and space power ...</span>
output to Earth goes up dramatically. 


Net Benefit was GEO DA (Link Later)


=Advantage CP's= 
==Important Note== 
Some of these are often read in different combinations together, to see which ones were read together against different affirmatives check [[debatecoaches/Specific Negative Strategies|here]].
==Employment Visas CP (Competitiveness/Science Leadership)== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**The** <span class="yshortcuts">**United States federal government**</span> **should provide employment-based visas to graduates who earn a Masters or PhD degree from an accredited U.S. university in a science, technology, engineering or math field of study.**



**The plan solves competitiveness and economic leadership in the short and long term**
**Fitz, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marshall, Center For American Progress, Director of Immigration Policy at American Progress, director of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, key legislative strategists in support of CIR and has served as a media spokesperson on a broad array of immigration policy and legislative issues, quoted extensively across spectrum of international, national, presented at national conferences and universities on immigration matters, advised numerous members of Congress on immigration, helped draft major legislation, Prosperous Immigrants, Prosperous Americans, How to Welcome the World’s Best Educated,Boost Economic Growth, and Create Jobs, December 2009)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Immigrants who come to the **U**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **S**</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">from pursuing income maximizing opportunities.</span>







**The counterplan’s essential to US science and space leadership**

**Alberts, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce Alberts, President, National Academy of Sciences, Wm. A. Wulf, President, National Academy of Engineering, and Harvey Fineberg, President, Institute of Medicine, Dec. 13, 2002, Current Visa Restrictions Interfere with U.S. Science and Engineering Contributions to Important National Needs)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Building stronger allies through scientific...</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">national security and economic development goals. </span>

==Military Renewables CP (DOD Dependence Heg Internal)== 



===1NC Shell=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase the military's development and use of biofuels, hybrid transportation, solar water purification systems, solar tent shields, portable solar panels and solar chargers, including investing in fuel-cell powered unmanned aerial vehicles.**

**Military renewables other than SPS can be easily integrated in the field but more investment is needed**
**Rosenthal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- MD from Harvard, environmental reporter for the New York Times</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Elisabeth, October, “U.S Military Orders Less Dependence on Fossil Fuels,” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/05/science/earth/05fossil.html?hp=&pagewanted=1]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">With insurgents</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> increasingly </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">attacking</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the infrastructure will be created.” </span>


==**Army Budget CP (Defense Cuts Heg Internal)**== 
===**1NC Shell**=== 
The United States federal government should fully fund the Army's Fiscal Year 2012 budget request.
**Fully funding the budget prevents defense cuts**
**Chiarelli, 5/4** – general in the US Armed Forces
[Peter, “Statement Before the Subcommittee on Airland Committee on Armed Services United States Senate”, First Session, 112th Congress, [[http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2011/04%20April/Chiarelli%2004-05-11.pdf]], AL]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 4pt;">In support of Army Acquisition and Modernization, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the ...</span>__
__in this era of persistent conflict.__ 

==RPS CP (Warming Advantage)== 
**The United States federal government should implement a renewable portfolio standard.**

**RPS solves warming**
**Fershee 8- prof @ University of North Dakota Law, focus in energy law**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua,“Changing Resources, Changing Market: The Impact of a National Renewable Portfolio Standard on the U.S. Energy Industry” Energy Law Journal, Vol. 29, No. 1, http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:5o1fbZrYa-AJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,23) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In May 2007, the House Committee ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">thousands of jobs in the past six years. </span>