[[toc]]
=Mt. Hebron DW (MD) - Jake Dillion & Andrew Wang= 

=Contact= 

Jake and Andrew are terrible at updating their wiki. If you have any questions, please e-mail Scott Brown at sbrowndebate@gmail.com.

Thanks

Scott

=Aff - DISCOVR= 

==1AC - Wake== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Plan Text </span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earths mesosphere by launching the Deep Space Climate Observatory </span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Contention One is the Status Quo </span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The sun is entering a period of extreme activity in 2013</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moskowitz 8/11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Solar flares like the huge … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">said. Penn masala – they mak</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We are more vulnerable to the effects of solar storms than ever before </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Derbyshire 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The world is overdue a ferocious … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Quebec, the U.S. space agency said</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The current solar storm monitoring satellite is outdated and will fail to provide warning for a major storm </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">CARV 5/18 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Concept Activity Research Vault, 5/18/2011 develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, Satellite outages now critical data problem, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Advanced Composition Explorer ( ACE ) … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">its NASA calculated life expectance.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">There is no funding for the updated version of this technology, the Deep Space Climate Observatory, or DSCOVR </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Turner 7/13</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[SpaceNews staff writer, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Space Climate Probe, Satellite Constellation” http://www.space.com/12259-house-panel-space-climate-satellites-funding.html]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. House Appropriations Committee is … not provide funding for either. </span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Contention Two is Solar Storms </span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario One is Miscalc </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Solar storms cause satellite failure </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">NOAA 2003 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">National Oceanographic and Aeronautics Administration, NOAA Magazine story 98, June 19, “The Growing Importance of Space Weather Information”<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.magazine.noaa.gov/stories/mag93.htm]]</span> </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, astronauts and aircraft carry … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">the threats of human exposure. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Satellite malfunctions are indistinguishable – a harsh space environment will trigger an accidental war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Coffelt 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Colonel in the US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Those that operate satellite systems</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> … systems and access to space. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">30 Minute Timeframe to massive nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Dennis Ray Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As for the accidental factor … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">would surely have taken place.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario Two is the Economy </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Solar storms would destroy communications infrastructure and GPS</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">IBT 11’</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [International Business Times, “Severe … enable extremely high radiation levels. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The magnitude of this internal is huge</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>.** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Commercially, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the economy of the … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9 </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline leads to global escalatory war –studies prove</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span> [**Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario Three is Blackouts </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Solar storms cause long term blackouts </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Butt 10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For the reasons outlined above, … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">for multiple years are possible</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [25]. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This is an econ internal – even a few days without electricity collapses the economy </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bryan 03 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jay, The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec), August 19, SECTION: Business; Opinion on the Blackout; Pg. B1, HEADLINE: Power grids vital in information age: "Just a few days could theoretically take economic growth ... right down to zero" l/n</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This worsened the already-anemic … in an information-age economy.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Blackouts cause nuclear plants to meltdown </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">IB Times 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">International Business Times, written by staff reporter, 8/8/11 “Severe Solar Storms could Disrupt Earth this Decade: NOAA” http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/194166/20110808/solar-storms-severe-solar-storms-earth-paralyse-carrington-event.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">htm </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is a particular problem in … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">of major earthquakes and tsunamis.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">That causes extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Wasserman 2001 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Harvey – senior editor of the Free Press, October 2001, “America’s Terrorist Nuclear Threat to Itself,” http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">No sane nation hands to a … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">generations</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">must be shut down.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">DSCOVR solves for solar storms by providing early warning </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Clark 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The White House is requesting $47 … the next solar maximum in 2013.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">DSCOVR is scientifically vital to solar weather prediction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lautenbacher 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010</span>**, **Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The DSCOVR</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Deep Space Climate … DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Early warning prevents damage </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Phillips 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Earth and space are about … take this very seriously indeed." </span>__**

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Contention Three is Climate Conflict</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Warming is inevitable – status quo CO2 emissions and oceanic feedbacks</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Over the 20th century, the … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">level of carbon dioxide reached</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">That causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tussing 2008 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The impetus behind these efforts … taking shape in every theater. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tussing 2008 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In emulation of </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">American … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">camp of the civil authorities. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lack of effective climate data means US power fails to respond to these – decapitates effective interventionism to check</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change will likely exacerbate … prepared to meet future challenges.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Given the proliferation of new … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">secu­rity professionals need to ask. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">DSCOVR solves-</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Key to Observation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Donahue 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Bill, Who Killed the Deep Space Climate Observatory?, PopSci 4-6-11, Portland based writer, http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Since 1999, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA and NOAA have … Earth-monitoring systems could depend</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Calibration </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Williams 2008 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">a great boost</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in the 1970s. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Integration</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Valero 2007 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences … the nation's investment in space. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A synergistic, integrated system composed of LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">D. Data Gaps</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The L1 and L2 Lagrange … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">other networks </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">and spaceborne platforms”</span>__**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1 is Africa</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Smith 2007 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Deployment of military forces will … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">military forces in a reactive manner. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deutsch ’02 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Rabid Tiger Project believes … to follow their client states.</span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is Indo-Pak War</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Warming causes Indo-Pak war, disrupts irrigation patterns in Kashmir.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">IPS 2010 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Inter Press Service, January 18, "India/Pakistan: Reduced Himalayan snowfall could spark water war" http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/ips/14ecc8996051f75493d532d312e580ae.htm]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">SRINAGAR , Jan 18 (<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ipsnews.net/|IPS]]</span>) - </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The declining … the mountains," </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">said Prof Sultan.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">US military is key to solve, otherwise it escalates to a global nuclear war and draws in great powers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baker 2010</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michael L., former International Affairs resident fellow at CFR, The Coming Conflicts of Climate Change, September 7 2010, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/coming-conflicts-climate-change/p22886]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">nowhere is this more … challenges posed by climate change.</span>__


=Neg= 

==Credit DA== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">1NC Credit Downgrade DA</span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">No downgrade now – credible deficit reduction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 9-8</span>**
S&P defends U.S. downgrade; Moody’s says U.S. still AAA (Reuters), http://www.aminutenews.com/?p=44872
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moody’s</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Investors Service, which on … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">to be “credible</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,”</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> he said.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">“If the impact for boost inadequacy modify that is included in the budget curb behave produces results that are not rattling credible, that compounded with the scheme action could potentially drive an primeval advise on the rating,” Nazi said.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Even the $917 1000000000 in fund that hit already been united by Republicans and Democrats are not secure in the daylong term, he said.</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Those fund embellish mostly from </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">… the expeditionary to matter inspection.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The plan breaks that framework – creates huge spending that strains the deficit</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hsu 9</span>**[Feng, Ph.D. and Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group, and Ken Cox, Ph.D. and Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">There are limited financial resources … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">but can be mutually supported.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The signal of a fiscal discipline framework has appeased Moody’s but they are watching to whether or not it will succeed – failure to curtail spending and maintain status quo plans for cuts triggers a downgrade</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Panchuk, ‘8-3</span>** [8-3-11, Kerri Panchuk, “Moody's affirms … , SM]

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moody's</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Investors Service (<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://finance.yahoo.com/q?s=MCO|MCO]]</span>: 27.04 -3.19%) </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">confirmed … </span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">the rating negatively</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">" Moody's said.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Further downgrades raise interest and collapse the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Goldwein 8-11-2011 </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marc, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, The Atlantic, Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">What are the consequences of … to bail out the U.S. government</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline leads to global escalatory war –studies prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span> [**Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention. </span>


==1NC Frontier K== 

**Tying the space program to competitiveness and leadership promotes a counterproducetive “frontier mentality”**
**Billings 97’**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Linda, More than 30 years of experience in the field of communication and 25 years of experience in aerospace Ph.D. in mass communication specializes in research, analysis, and commentary on space policy, and the history of rationales for space exploration. “Frontier Days in Space: Are they Over?” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://lindabillings.org/papers.html]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The rationale of the US … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not worthy of public funding. </span>

**Rhetoric and metaphors are crucial determinants of our space policy; representations precede policymaking in this arena.**
**Billings 06’**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Linda, More than 30 years of experience in the field of communication and 25 years of experience in aerospace Ph.D. in mass communication specializes in research, analysis, and commentary on space policy, and the history of rationales for space exploration. February 3 “To the moon mars and back: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space fairing societies.” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> social, political, economic and … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the space exploration enterprise. </span>

**The way we treat space both reflects and determines our treatment of the terrestrial ecosystem**
**Miller, 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ryder Miller, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://escholarship.org/uc/item/2d37b8cx]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Astroenvironmentalism: The Case for Space Exploration As An Environmental Issue, Ryder W. Miller edited </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">From Narnia to a Space Odyssey: The War of Ideas Between Arthur C. Clarke and C.S. Lewis</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He is also the co-writer of </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">San Francisco: A Natural History</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most important related efforts … of it in environmental terms. </span>

**We must approach space through the guidelines of PRIOR ethical constraints – your ballot reflects an ethical decision, not just a technocratic calculation.**
**Miller, 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ryder Miller, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://escholarship.org/uc/item/2d37b8cx]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Astroenvironmentalism: The Case for Space Exploration As An Environmental Issue, Ryder W. Miller edited </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">From Narnia to a Space Odyssey: The War of Ideas Between Arthur C. Clarke and C.S. Lewis</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He is also the co-writer of </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">San Francisco: A Natural History</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As I have outlined elsewhere (Miller, 1999), … Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.</span>

**Reject the affirmative to embrace astroenvironmentalism as an ethical constraint. Preservation of space must be DECOUPLED from instrumental justification.**
**Billings 06’**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Linda, More than 30 years of experience in the field of communication and 25 years of experience in aerospace Ph.D. in mass communication specializes in research, analysis, and commentary on space policy, and the history of rationales for space exploration. February 3 “To the moon mars and back: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space fairing societies.” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The wilderness metaphor has been … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">data generated by Earth-sitters” (p. 103)?</span>