[[toc]]
As a caveat, if there is ever anything you saw me read in round that is not on the wiki, please feel free to email me. I am largely pro-disclosure so anything that is not on my wiki can easily be sent to you. It is just laziness or lack of internet at tournaments that keeps it off the wiki. My email is noahistar@gmail.com.
Another caveat, I have decided as of Jan-Feb to disclose full text of my evidence on the Jan-Feb topic. In case Greenhill decides to run Copyright theory. I do not take credit for any of the evidence read in the round. All cites are attributive. Thank you very much Mr. Nebel.
Also, I recommend people disclose full text, it is better for the community, it honestly just saves time. If you are trying to hide your bad evidence, then you should cut better evidence and then show the world you are a great debater.
Luv,
Noah
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===AC=== 
====Hooker AC==== 

I value justice.
Justice is synonymous with morality
Dictionary.com
the quality of … or moral rightness:
The only plausible view of morality is one that best coheres with our convictions. They are the starting point for any morality.
Hooker 1 Brad Hooker, Ideal Code, Real World, book, email me if you want a PDF copy)
We should evaluate… mesh with our other moral beliefs.17

Moral convictions mandate that absent your own circumstances you should give greater weight to the welfare of those important to you
Hooker 2
Most of us….relationships to you

Rule consequentialism coheres because it accords with our moral convictions while also being fundamentally impartial.
Hooker 3
Does rule-consequentialism… and special duties are plausible.)

Thus the standard is maximizing expected well-being.
Contention One--Animals Matter.
A. Recognizing animal rights is a moral conviction. Regardless of how we treat other humans we would still find animal abuse counterintuitive and immoral.
Hooker 4
Animals (or at… treat other humans.

Rule consequentialism must favor the worst off to promote well-being
Hooker 5 (44)
To use Derek Parfit's… favour the second code.


C. Animals suffer because they have active frontal cortexes that react to pain and fear.
Grandin and Deesing—(Temple Grandin and Mark Deesing, Department of Animal Science Colorado State University, USA American Board of Veterinary Practitioners - Symposium 2002 May 17, 2002, Manhattan Beach, California Special Session Pain, Stress, Distress and Fear Emerging Concepts and Strategies in Veterinary Medicine (Updated September 2003)
Our review of… one emotion at a time.

D. Abnormal behavior demonstrates that are aware of changes in well-being.
Fraser (David Fraser, Professor at University of British Columbia, Research Assessing Animal Well-Being: Common Sense, Uncommon Science, 1993)
For animals kept… ways (Luescher et al., 1989).

If animals have moral status, recognizing their rights outweighs because there are numerically more of them. Even just marine animals are killed in massive amounts.
ADAPTT (ADAPTT [Animals Deserve Absolute Protection Today and Tomorrow]. “More Than 150 Billion Animals Slaughtered Each Year.” July 18, 2011.)
We at ADAPTT… have anticipated here.

Contention Two is Ecological Survival
The denial of animal rights is part and parcel of the logic of domination and our top-down ideologies that characterize animals as sub-human and tools to sustainable development. This has created global oppression of species.
Kahn
When Freire's work is…globalization-from-below.

Humanity’s development to avoid human extinction relegates all non-humans. This logic is a cancer and it has metastasized as all climate and ecological crises. We have entered the time of the “6th Extinction” as our obsession with human survival devastates all.
Kahn 2 (Richard Kahn, Core Faculty in Education at Antioch University Los Angeles, the specialisist in Ecopedagogy Paulo Freire and Eco-Justice: Updating Pedagogy of the Oppressed for the Age of Ecological Calamity, 2007)
In his book… sixty-five million.

This logic will cause earth wide extinction by 2032
Kahn 3 (Richard Kahn, Core Faculty in Education at Antioch University Los Angeles, the specialisist in Ecopedagogy Paulo Freire and Eco-Justice: Updating Pedagogy of the Oppressed for the Age of Ecological Calamity, 2007)
New advances in capitalism…. planet by 2032.

====Paul and Adam are sometimes smart AC==== 
this ac is the same as above but without the kahn contention. That is replaced with
- we have a shared good with animals
korsgaard
[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]
"because we are . . . our animal nature"


- share a natural good
korsgaard
[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]
"to explain what . . . its own sake"


we have similar interests as well
korsgaard
[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]
"this is part . . .the other animals"

- animals communicate claims through cries
korsgaard
[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]
"from here the . . . obligations to animals"


research shows we are biologically the same as animals
Cassuto [David N., Associate Professor of Law, Pace University School of Law. B.A., Wesleyan University, J.D., University of California, Berkeley, Boalt Hall School of Law, Ph.D., Indiana University], “BRED MEAT: THE CULTURAL FOUNDATION OF THE FACTORY FARM,” Law and Contemporary Problems, 70 Law & Contemp. Probs. 59, winter 2007,]

"this article takes . . . dolphins to pigeons"


====Donald Duck AC==== 


The flawed discourse of the Animal prevents us from discovering its true nature

Donaldson 1 (Brianne Donaldson, Claremont School of Theology and Center for Neuroeconomics Studies at Clarement Graduate University, Discourse First, Cages Second: A New Locus for Animal Liberation, Between the Species, Issue X, 2010)
This is the extent of the.... share this planet with.


You must affirm to make judgments about animals

Donaldson 2 (Brianne Donaldson, Claremont School of Theology and Center for Neuroeconomics Studies at Clarement Graduate University, Discourse First, Cages Second: A New Locus for Animal Liberation, Between the Species, Issue X, 2010)

Part Two is Ethics
Acknowledging the impacts upon all species of the earth.
Hooker 1 (Brad Hooker, 11-12, Ideal Code, Real World)
We should evaluate rival moral theories .... how they mesh with our other moral beliefs

Thus, Rule consequentialism coheres because it accords with the moral convictions.

Hooker 2 (Brad Hooker, 29, Ideal Code, Real World)
Does rule-consequentialism accord with the .... is a moral conviction.


Hooker 3 (67)
Animals (or at least many of them) count morally ,.... independently of effects on how we treat other humans.

Thus the standard is maximizing expected well-being.

C1 -> Suffering

Animals suffer because they have active frontal cortexes

Grandin and Deesing —(Temple Grandin and Mark Deesing, Department of Animal Science Colorado State University, USA American Board of Veterinary Practitioners - Symposium 2002 May 17, 2002, Manhattan Beach, California Special Session Pain, Stress, Distress and Fear Emerging Concepts and Strategies in Veterinary Medicine (Updated September 2003)
Our review of the lit erature ... Even just marine animals are killed in massive amounts.


ADAPTT (ADAPTT [Animals Deserve Absolute Protection Today and Tomorrow]. “More Than 150 Billion Animals Slaughtered Each Year.” July 18, 2011.)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> We at ADAPTT have settled on .... have anticipated here. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Contention Two is Ecological Survival</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Animal’s non-moral status gives humanity reign over all life forms.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Kahn 1 (Richard Kahn, Core Faculty in Education at Antioch University Los Angeles, the specialisist in Ecopedagogy Paulo Freire and Eco-Justice: Updating Pedagogy of the Oppressed for the Age of Ecological Calamity, 2007)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Leaving aside many of Bowers's ..... enthrones human beings at the reign of life .</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Kahn 2 </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> When Freire's work is engaged ... We have entered the time of the “6th Extinction.”</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Kahn 3 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> In his book, The Enemy of Nature,.... great vanishing of creatures in the last thirty years such as the planet had not seen during the previous sixty-five million. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> This logic will cause earth wide extinction by 2032</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Kahn 4 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> New advances in capitalist lifestyle.... <span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">to increase the probability that the future will contain a lot of value </span></span>


==Negative== 
===NCs=== 
====Where I End and You Begin NC==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Morality and justice are created through communicative action specifically a network of symmetrical relations. But we can’t communicate with animals the same way we do humans. Instead, we enter into an intersubjective relation with animals who we view as an alter ego of ourselves. So we perceive them as a second person or other who we then incorporate into society to generate a quasi-moral responsibility and this relationship is asymmetrical.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Habermas explains</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Social interactions mediated… kind as an intersubjective relation.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Interactions between human and animal are non-linguistic and animals can’t directly participate in communicative action. The only way to involve animals is by assuming a personal identity and ascribing human qualities of an agent to them. This creates analogous to moral duties.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Habermas 2 (Jurgen, one of the most influential philosophers in the world, Remarks on Discourse Ethics, pg 109-110, 1994, MIT Press)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> In making such statements… recognition between persons</span>
===Topicality=== 
====T-Suffering==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">INTERPRETATION: Animal rights means protecting animals from pain and suffering.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Discoverthenetworks.com (A Guide to the Political Left, Online Magazine, excerpt from biographical page on Singer, 2005, http://www.discoverthenetworks.org/individualProfile.asp?indid=2340)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Peter Singer is…. in the 1940s.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Limits</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> 1. Their aff explodes limits by failing to specify in what way animals are morally relevant. Simply being morally relevant can happen in numerous ways. The SEP 1 explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> (Lori Gruen,, Chair of Philosophy at Wesleyan, First published Tue Jul 1, 2003; substantive revision Mon Sep 13, 2010, http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/moral-animal)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> That non-human… systematically violated. (Regan, 1985)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Ground</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> 1. Their interpretation forces the neg to defend arguments not defended in the literature. The real debate isn’t if animals matter but how they matter. SEP 2 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Given the long… status of animals.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Fairness</span>

====T-Absolutism==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">1. Their aff explodes limits by failing to specify in what way animals are morally relevant. Simply being morally relevant can happen in numerous ways. The SEP 1 explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> (Lori Gruen,, Chair of Philosophy at Wesleyan, First published Tue Jul 1, 2003; substantive revision Mon Sep 13, 2010, http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/moral-animal)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> That non-human… systematically violated. (Regan, 1985)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Ground</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> 1. Their interpretation forces the neg to defend arguments not defended in the literature. The real debate isn’t if animals matter but how they matter. SEP 2 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Given the long… status of animals.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Fairness</span>

===Ks=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">A. Animal ethics relies on moral value and status assessments of nature, which incites patriarchal aggression.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Kheel (Marti Kheel, author of Nature Ethics and activist in ecofeminism, animal advocacy, and environmental ethics."From Heroic to Holistic Ethics: The Ecofeminist Challenge," pp. 243-271 in Greta Gaard ( Ed.). Ecofeminism: Women, Animals, Nature. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1993.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> If the cult of… the "object" of abuse.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> B. Turns Case—Attempts at the protection of nature based in ethics inevitably place human will above nature. Animals can never be treated equally via the aff—so you negate.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Kheel 2</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Both animal liberationists… an inherently aggressive will.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> C. Impact---This form of aggression justifies predatory acts of violence</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Kheel 3 (Marti Kheel, author of Nature Ethics and activist in ecofeminism, animal advocacy, and environmental ethics."From Heroic to Holistic Ethics: The Ecofeminist Challenge," pp. 243-271 in Greta Gaard ( Ed.). Ecofeminism: Women, Animals, Nature. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1993.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Patriarchal society… us to consume.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> D. The alt—We must engage in holistic ethics to avoid the patriarchal discourse embedded in the aff. To do so, we must avoid crisis scenarios and ethical dilemmas that isolate a forced choice. Rather, we must question the underlying conditions that created these dilemmas to piece together the larger story of the natural world. Only then can we genuinely interact with nature without emphasis on rights.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Kheel 3</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> The "environmental crisis…"climate" must be right.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Moreover, their framework ensures we consistently face the same moral crises. The aff’s ethical stance on animal rights will be reversed— if the aff wins reasons that animals rights are morally necessary or good, you negate because it is the only way to solve and take a static chance on the issue.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Kheel (Marti Kheel, author of Nature Ethics and activist in ecofeminism, animal advocacy, and environmental ethics."From Heroic to Holistic Ethics: The Ecofeminist Challenge," pp. 243-271 in Greta Gaard ( Ed.). Ecofeminism: Women, Animals, Nature. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1993.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Heroic medicine, like… to bear fruit.</span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Fertile Crescent AC=== 
Part One is Naturalism
1. Non-natural theories are epistemically inaccessible. Papineau
(Papineau, David, "Naturalism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/naturalism)
Moore took this argument… can have any knowledge of them.

2. Naturalism best accounts for moral motivation and supervenience. Papineau 2
(Papineau, David, "Naturalism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/naturalism)
Realist moral naturalism also… supervene on physical facts (Ridge 2006 Section 6).


Thus, the basis for morality is evolutionary instincts because we use them to perceive natural moral values. These values are what generates moral obligation.
Collier (John Collier, History and Philosophy of Science, University of Melbourne, Michael Stingl, Department of Philosophy, University of Lethbridge, Biology and Philosophy (1993), Evolutionary Naturalism and the Objectivity of Morality)
A key problem with Richards'… us reason to act morally.


Part Two is Altruism
The primary evolutionary moral instinct is altruism because all other evolutionary instincts are merely attempts to motivate altruism.
Ruse (Michael Ruse, professor of history and philosophy, University of Guelph, Ontario, 1986 by the Joint Publication Board of Zygon, “Evolutionary Ethics: A Phoenix Arisen”)
We must begin with the science… superbrain of pure rationality.

Moreover, The specific form of altruism that constitutes general human morality is known as strong reciprocity, defined as rewarding altruism and punishing non-altrusim even at personal cost.
Gintis et al
(H. Gintis, Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, New Mexico and, The Central European University, Budapest, Hungary, J. Henrich, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, S. Bowles, Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, NM, USA, R. Boyd, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA, E. Fehr, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland, Soc Just Res 2008, “Strong Reciprocity and the Roots of Human Morality”)
The two volumes under review… and the taste for retribution.

Last, Social and physical evolution dictate utilitarian norms
Weinstein (David Weinstein “Herbert Spencer” Spencer’s Liberal Utilitarianism. SEP. 2008.)
Now in Spencer's case, especially… stipulated by equal freedom

Part Four is Libya
A. Libya will collapse absent international aid
Margon 11 (Sarah Margon is the Associate Director for Sustainable Security at American Progress., 8/22, “Libya Will Still Need Help After Qaddafi’s Departure”, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/08/libya_next_stage.html)
The situation in Tripoli remains… conflict as it was during.

B. International aid solves instability
Serwer 11 (Daniel, professorial lecturer and senior fellow at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies and a scholar at the Middle East Institute, “ Post-Qaddafi Instability in Libya CPA Contingency Planning Memorandum No. 12,” August 2011, http://www.cfr.org/libya/post-qaddafi-instability-libya/p25612)
The United States could play… providing training outside Libya.

C. Instability triggers massive oil shocks – that collapse the global economy
Stelzer 11 (Irwin M., Contributing editor to The Weekly Standard, director of economic policy studies at the Hudson Institute, and a columnist for the Sunday Times (London), 3/7, “A Libyan Oil Shock?”,http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/libyan-oil-shock_552544.html?page=2)

But there is oil and there is oil… nation’s continuing need for oil.

D. Oil shocks independently cause extinction
Klare 8 (Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, “The rise of the new energy world order,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/JD17Dj04.html)
A growing risk of conflict. Throughout history…. control its global distribution


E. Economic decline incites global nuclear conflict—that’s extinction
Harris and Burrows 9 (Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf)
Increased Potential for Global Conflict… in a more dog-eat-dog world.


Moral uncertainty means we default to preventing extinction. Bostrom
(2011) Nick Bostrom, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy
These reflections on moral uncertainty… any existential catastrophe

If there’s any risk of util, extinction is bad for the purposes of decision making. Bostrom 2
“There will be some types of… to decision making.”

==Negative== 
===Bandura NC=== 
I negate. Internal self-sanctions are the foundation of morality. External sanctions are inadequate for governing moral conduct because immoral acts can go undetected. Since an agent always control their own conduct, self sanctioning behavior is sufficient to generate obligations
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandura 91</span>—(Albert Bandura, professor at Stanford University, Social cognitive theory of moral thought and action. In W. M. Kurtines & J. L. Gewirtz (Eds.), //Handbook of moral behavior and development// (Vol. 1, pp. 45-103), 1991)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Human morality is an issue of…agency presented in this chapter</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Empathetic concern and for others is the best sanction on moral behavior. When agents are aware of the social consequences of their behavior they will not engage in moral misconduct. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandura 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Studies of socialization practices…rules and moral directives</span> (Cheyne & Walters, 1970; LaVoie, 1974).
I contend that individuals are not obligated to assist people in need because that behavior is not self-sanctioning.
The over demanding nature of beneficence proves that agents would a. have negative social consequences for helping those in need and b. lack empathy to those in need.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beauchamp </span>**([[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/principle-beneficence/#ProOveDemBen|http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/principle-beneficence/#ProOveDemBen]])
Some philosophers defend <span class="DebateUnderline">an extremely…</span> replaced real moral obligation

Soci al context dictates that persons do not have moral obligations to others. Even if they were to have an obligation to assist those in need, because we cant help everyone, social context negates its legitimacy.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brock writes</span> (Some Questions about the Moral Responsibilities of Drug Companies in Developing Countries, Dan W. Brock, Developing World Bioethics, Volume 1, Number 1, 2001)
The second worry concerns his account… social responsibilities in, the developing world.

Even if enough social context exists to generate moral obligation, that obligation would not be to assist people in need but rather to establish social institutions for aid.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brock concludes</span>
Similar worries concern Resnik’s… and justice to meet the need.
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Ellis Island AC (w/Full Text Disclosure)=== 
I affirm and value morality
1.Only the Aff gets RVIS because theolry is a no risk issue for the neg—a. RVIS checks abusive theory proliferation, b. the six minute Nr means neg can go for theory and substance which always screws the 2AR. 2. The NC is reactive, so they can pick a strategy that meets the Aff. Theory is laziness not a check on aff abuse. 3. Cross-x checks theory violations. They must clarify the stance of the AC to get a violation – failure to ask means you shouldn’t vote on arbitrary negative theory.
Victims is plural so the resolution can be answered generically or spefically. A resolutional burden of generality would include the word “all” in front of victims. Plurality refers to a member of the overall category—not all of it
Dictionary.com (http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/plural)
Grammar . noting or pertaining to a member of the category of number, found in many languages, indicating that a word has more than one referent, as in English men, or more than two referents, as in Old English ge, meaning “you.”
Observation One: All moral theories presume the worth of persons as grounds for motivation. Any adequate moral theory must recognize that humans have inherent value, because that value is the reason for acting in the first place. Moral theories differ on how to best respect personal worth, but all moral theories recognize that humans have value worthy of respect. Therefore, a proper account of personhood is a meta-constraint on all ethical theories.
Observation Two: The resolution is a question of situational ethics. Therefore, prefer ethics that directly pertain to domestic violence. Any morality that is based on abstract or unspecific codes of conduct fails to address the situational question and should be rejected. [Questions of desire or self-interest can only be answered when the contributing facts are taken into account.] Domestic violence alone is a grave ethical issue.
Craig-Taylor (Phyliss Craig-Taylor, Professor of Law Charlotte School of Law, LIFTING THE VEIL: THE INTERSECTIONALITY OF ETHICS, CULTURE, AND GENDER BIAS IN DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CASES, 2008, Rutgers Law Record, Lexis)
The necessity for effective and ethical representation is underscored by the facts that of the four million women who are victimized each year nearly two thousand die. 23 "Every day four women die in this country as a result of domestic violence, the euphemism for murders and assaults by husbands and boyfriends. That's approximately 1,400 women each year, according to the [Federal Bureau of Investigation]." 24 Ironically, this number is more than the 170 executions from death penalty cases during the first half of the 1990's or the 370 executions in the second half of the decade. 25 In death penalty cases, several states have acknowledged that the nature of the cases requires specialized attention to ethics and professionalism. 26 The sheer magnitude of tragic deaths from domestic violence should highlight the need for similar attention to ethics and professionalism in domestic violence cases. As many domestic violence cases involve a similar life and death dilemma and the number of reported deaths is so high, these cases require the same specialized attention to ethics and professionalism. Unfortunately, that is not yet the reality.
Thus, the situation proves that where victims face danger from an aggressor, they are morally permitted to kill in self-defense.
First, no agent would accept a morality that precluded the possibility for individuals to defend themselves. Since any person could be violated at any time, moral agents must reserve the right to defend themselves as a means of securing their own freedom. Only a moral theory that provides incentive for individual action can prove obligation, permissibility or prohibition.
Bandura 91—(Albert Bandura, professor at Stanford University, Social cognitive theory of moral thought and action. In W. M. Kurtines & J. L. Gewirtz (Eds.), Handbook of moral behavior and development (Vol. 1, pp. 45-103), 1991)
Human morality is an issue of considerable import both individually and collectively. Internalization of a set of standards is integral to the achievement of self-directedness and a sense of continuity and purpose in one's everyday life. In the absence of personal standards and the exercise of self-regulatory influence, people would behave like weathervanes, constantly shifting direction to conform with whatever is expedient at a given moment. A shared morality, of course, is vital to the humane functioning of any society. Many forms of behavior are personally advantageous but are detrimental to others or infringe on their rights. Without some consensual moral codes people would disregard each others' rights and welfare whenever their desires come into social conflict. Societal codes and sanctions articulate collective moral imperatives as well as influence social conduct. However, external sanctions are relatively weak deterrents because most transgressive acts can go undetected. But people continuously preside over their own conduct in countless situations presenting little or no external threat. So the exercise of self-sanction must play a central role in the regulation of moral conduct. Self- regulatory mechanisms form an integral part of the conception of moral agency presented in this chapter.
Two implications A. This is necessary condition for any morality—individuals themselves are the ultimate arbiters on what is permissible, thus justifying self-defense B. This justifies deadly force as a situational response because it is the only consequence to the abuse that can adequately convey its wrongdoing. The abuser will continue without intervention and deadly force is the only non-external response to the abuse.
Second, the intrinsic worth of persons justifies self-defense. Without the right to self-defense, life is vacuous and without meaning. Even under absolutist systems of deontology, self-defense must be permissible.
Wallerstein (Shlomit Wallerstein. “Justifying the Right to Self-Defense: A Theory of Forced Consequences.” Virginia Law Review, Vol. 91:999, 2005. Lecturer, St. Peter’s College, Oxford University.)
Starting from the premise of an absolute unqualified right not to be killed, it follows that self-defense, as a derivative right, must be an absolute natural right as well. This is so because without an absolute right to self-defense the right not to be killed can hardly be regarded as a right, as it provides its owner no effective tools to protect it. Self-defense plays a major role in resisting the direct imminent unjust threat posed by an aggressor. It also has an additional role in the defense against an indirect threat to autonomy, a threat that is generated by the fear and instability that the lack of such a right would bring about. It constitutes one of the basic conditions that allow people to live together in society. One of the reasons we value life is because it is a necessary precondition to the possibility of autonomy, of pursuing various personal and communal goals. Thus, the right to self-defense can be partly explained by reason of its implications for autonomy.
Third, the aggressor is causally responsible for a situation where the victim’s life will be violated; as such, self-defense must be permissible
Wallerstein 2
It is this same idea that justifies the defensive response. Through “bad” luck, the non-culpable and non-agent aggressor wrongs the defender, violating his right not to be killed. He is posing an unjust threat to the defender, creating a situation in which either the defender or the aggressor will have to pay the costs. In these circumstances, I think it is wrong for the aggressor to transfer the burden to the defender and demand that the defender be the one to suffer the consequences. Hence, it is the causal responsibility of the aggressor for the unjust threat that spawns the right to self-defense. Also note that as self-defense is not about punishment but about resisting, repelling or warding off an attack, we are no longer confined to the concept of moral responsibility. 84 The causal responsibility of the aggressor creates the asymmetry between the aggressor and the defender in the following way: The defender has a right to life. Therefore, if the aggressor makes an attack upon the defender’s life, in the absence of any special justifying circumstances, he wrongs him. Because the aggressor had “bad” luck and is causally responsible for the aggression that created a situation in which either he or the defender will have to suffer the consequences, the defender has a right to use necessary and proportionate force against him. Therefore, when the defender attacks his aggressor to defend himself, he has justifying circumstances and does not violate the aggressor’s right to life and does not wrong him. Because the defender does not wrong the aggressor, the aggressor does not have a right to defend himself from the defender’s threat.
Fourth, the aggressor cedes his rights when he tries to attack the victim. The forfeiture justifies killing the offender.
Feinberg (Voluntary Euthanasia and the Inalienable Right to Life.” Joel Feinberg. The Tanner Lecture on Human Values. Delivered at the University of Michigan. 1977.)
I t was an important pa r t of the classic doctrine of natural rights as expounded by Locke and Blackstone tha t some natural rights, a t least (certainly including the right to l i f e ) , can be forfeited but not alienated. T h e distinction is roughly tha t between losing a right through one’s f aul t or error, o n the one hand, and voluntarily giving the right away, on the other. To forfeit, says Webster’s, is “to lose or lose the right to, by some error, fault, offense, or crime; to alienate the right to possess b y some neglect o r crime; to have to pay as forfeit; as, t o forfeit an estate by trea- son; to forfeit reputation” (emphasis a d d e d ) . A forfeitable right, therefore, cannot be an absolute one in our original sense, f o r it is not possessed unconditionally in all circumstances. Rather it is a right that one must qualify for [the right] by meeting certain conditions of proper conduct. As soon as one’s conduct falls below the qualifying standards one loses the right, whether one likes it or not. Sometimes the loss is thought to occur instantly and naturally - for example, at the moment a homicidal aggressor puts another’s life in jeopardy, his own life is forfeit to his threatened victim; at the moment a murderer kills his victim, he has ipso facto lost his own right to life against the state. In other cases, when the pos- sessor of a forfeitable right misbehaves, he disqualifies himself for continued possession and becomes liable to the annulment of the right at a later time at the pleasure of the state — for example, a negligent motorist may be deprived of his driver’s license in a proceeding that occurs a week after his misconduct. Since the forfeited right in all cases was originally understood to be conditional on the possessor’s continued proper conduct, it is often said that disqualification is something he has brought upon himself not of course as part of his explicit intention o r motive in acting but rather as the predictable and avoidable consequence of his wrongdoing. A forfeited right is not one that has been arbitrarily canceled or withdrawn, nor is it one that has been voluntarily relinquished or transferred. Rather it is thought to be one whose possessor has carelessly, stupidly, or recklessly allowed to get away from him.
Fifth, each agent is justified in preferring his life to the lives of others. The agent-relative value of life justifies self-defense.
Quong (Killing in Self<span style="font-family: 'Marker Felt';">‐</span>Defense Author(s): Jonathan Quong Reviewed work(s): Source: Ethics, Vol. 119, No. 3 (April 2009), pp. 507-537 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/597595 . Accessed: 25/12/2011 13:02)
The central problem with views of self-defense like Thomson’s, and the moral responsibility argument, is that they wrongly focus our conceptual attention on the possible targets of the defensive killing and ask whether the possible target is going to violate someone’s rights or is responsible for the lethal threat. Instead, I believe we should begin by focusing on the agent acting in self-defense. On this view the permission to act in self-defense is justiﬁed by appeal to the agent-relative value [of] that each person’s life has for them. By that I simply mean that your life is of particular importance to you. One implication of this fact is that most deontological theories do not require people to make great sacriﬁces on behalf of others unless they have voluntarily incurred an obligation to do so. You would be a hero if you risked your life by rushing out into choppy and dangerous waters to rescue someone who was drowning, but morality does not demand that you risk your life in this way. Your life is your own, and so morality does not require that you give it up or put it at signiﬁcant risk for another person or even several other people. 20 By appealing to the agent-relative value each person’s life has for them, I therefore mean nothing more than the following: that each person is understood to ha[s]ve a powerful agent-relative permission to avoid sacriﬁcing or signiﬁcantly risking their own life for the sake of others (absent any obligations voluntarily incurred). 21 This appeal to agent-relative value is the source of a moral permission and not merely the grounds for an excuse. We are excused when we act in a way that we should not have, but mitigating circumstances entail that it would have been exceedingly difﬁcult or even impossible for any normal or reasonable person to act as morality requires. Skeptics of the agent-relative view might believe this is what happens when someone kills an Innocent Threat or Aggressor in selfdefense: they should not have killed under those circumstances, but panic or self-interest made it very difﬁcult to act in accordance with morality’s requirements. I believe, however, that agent-relative considerations can do more than provide the grounds for excuse in life and death cases: they can alter the boundaries of what is permissible. Consider cases of rescue. If a child is drowning and X can rescue the child at the cost of muddying their trousers, most will agree X is required to save the child. But suppose instead X can only save the child at the cost of becoming a paraplegic. Here I think many would agree X is no longer required by morality to save the child. Since the death of the child is worse than the cost of becoming a paraplegic, the only explanation is that agent-relative considerations have altered what morality permits. While it is true that this is a case of rescue rather than killing, I think it usefully highlights that agent-relative considerations can dramatically alter what morality permits us to do, even when someone else’s life is at stake. I believe it is this agent-relative view about what morality can reasonably require of us that is at the heart of the permission to act in selfdefense. 22 Just as you cannot be expected to sacriﬁce or incur a significant risk to your life to rescue another person unless you have agreed to do so, I do not believe (subject to certain constraints) that morality can[not] demand that you allow yourself to be killed if you have not consented to this killing, or otherwise engaged in some voluntary act which has the same effect. Morality cannot require you to sacriﬁce your life for another single person when you rightfully possess the means to save yourself, and this is what provides the basic grounds for a permission to kill in self-defense.
Thus the standard is respecting the right to situational self-defense.
Donovan et al clarify (Dolores A. Donovan and Stephanie M. Wildman [“Is the Reasonable Man Obsolete: A Critical Perspective on Self-Defense and Provocation” LOYOLA OF LOS ANGELES LAW REVIEW. Vol. 14, 1981]
To use Ms. Mendez's case in Example One as an illustration, the relevant questions to ask in determining whether she killed in self-defense are: did she reasonably believe she was in danger; did she reasonably assess the force necessary to repel that danger; and did she reasonably assess the imminence of that danger? The focus is on the reasonableness of the defendant's belief. Because the law of self-defense has moved towards a subjective approach that takes surrounding circumstances into account, the [so] reasonable man is more often placed in the context of the defendant's social reality. 8 In the case of the rape victim in Example One, that means that factors such as the recent rape and its effect on Ms. Mendez in light of her cultural background might or might not, depending on the jurisdiction and the judge, be taken into account in determining whether her fear of danger was reasonable. To the extent that the jury is not allowed to take those factors into consideration, Ms. Mendez is less likely to be acquitted 9 on the basis of self-defense. 60 A reasonable man, viewed in the abstract, is not likely to fear death or great bodily injury from someone whom he encounters in a public place, especially when the reasonable man is carrying a loaded gun and even when the prospective victim is carrying a knife. However, a woman who has been raped, who is still in shock from that rape and who has been threatened again by her rapist, is likely to fear death or great bodily injury when she encounters that rapist in a public place, even when she is carrying a loaded gun and especially when her rapist is carrying a knife.
So, to meet the standard the aff must only prove the victim believed to act in self-defense because the perceived circumstances warranted no better option.
I contend that it is morally permissible for immigrant victims to use deadly force as a deliberate response to repeated domestic violence.
Domestic violence is a major cause of injury and death to victims. Victims risk losing their lives by staying in the relationship. Doing nothing is not an option.
Wright (Nancy Wright [law professor at Santa Clara Law School, “Voice for the Voiceless: The Case for Adopting the "Domestic Abuse Syndrome" for Self Defene Purposes for All Victims of Domestic Violence Who Kill Their Abusers”, Criminal Law Brief, Volume 4, 2009])
In addition, 30% of domestic violence incidents involve the use of a weapon and the injuries that battered women receive are at least as severe as those suffered in 90% of violent fclonies. In fact, each year approximately two million of these women suffer severe beatings at the hands of their spouses or partners. Unfortunately, over three women every day are murdered by their husbands; ! 6 frequently experiencing "prolonged, brutal deaths after years of violence.
Immigration is the internal link—research proves it exacerbates domestic violence.
Shaw 1 (Shaw, JD Candidate, Benjamin Cardozo School fo Law, Spring, 200915 Cardozo J.L. & Gender 663NOTE: BARRIERS TO FREEDOM: CONTINUED FAILURE OF U.S. IMMIGRATION LAWS TO OFFEREQUAL PROTECTION TO IMMIGRANT BATTERED WOMEN)
Studies show that the incidence of domestic violence either begins or increases once a couple immigrates to the United States. For example, in a study conducted by the Immigrant Women’s Task Force of the Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and Services—which surveyed immigrant Latina and Filipina women—forty-eight percent of the women reported that the level of domestic violence escalated after their immigration to the United States. 17 This may be partially attributable to the fact that women in traditional marriages—where the woman stays at home—often must find work after immigrating to the United States to ensure the family’s financial survival. This significantly upsets the power balance between the couple because the woman becomes more independent when she has her own source of income. 18 The newly gained independence results in increased efforts on the part of the husband to attempt to control his wife through means of violence and abuse. 19 The abuse may also be triggered or exacerbated upon couple’s immigrating to the United States .
I’ll isolate 4 internal links between immigration law and domestic violence
First, cultural norms and language barriers prevent Hispanic immigrants from reporting domestic violence—they are more likely to stay with repeated abusers.
Wood 1(Sarah M. Wood, J.D., Duke University School of Law; Ph.D., Yale University; A.B., Harvard College. VAWA’s Unfinished Business: The Immigrant Women Who Fall Through the Cracks, Duke Journal of Gender Law and Policy, 2004)
The most obvious barrier faced by undocumented Latino immigrants— men and women alike—is language.
According to a recent survey, seventy-two percent of foreign-born Latinos in the United States speak Spanish as their dominant language, while only twenty-four percent consider themselves bilin- gual.70 Compounding the language barrier, fifty-five percent of foreign-born Latinos have less than a high-school education. Outside of cities with large La- tino populations, law enforcement agencies are unlikely to have sufficient bilin- gual staff, and even when translators are available. Spanish-speaking immigrants may have difficulty understanding law enforcement and court procedures.72 These language barriers have a significant effect on a battered woman’s ac- cess to social and legal services, including shelters and other resources. Illiter- acy in English (and often Spanish as well) makes the dissemination of informa- tion difficult and seriously hampers a battered woman’s ability to navigate the bureaucracy of public and private agencies dedicated to addressing problems of domestic violence. A lack of knowledge about the law enforcement and judi- cial systems is closely related to the language barrier faced by Spanish-speaking immigrants. Immigrants may not understand the legal process at a structural level (who should be called, what should be reported, what the sequence of events will be) and at a functional level (where the police station or courthouse is, what the hierarchy of authority is, which forms must be filled out).74 One commentator has described the Latina immigrant’s experience of the legal sys- tem as “an overwhelming maze” in which “[l]itigants unfamiliar with the legal process or the judicial system are particularly disadvantaged in navigating such space and quickly get the message that they ‘don’t belong’ . . . [which is] further compounded when the only information that is available is in a language that the traveler does not understand.”75 Exacerbating these difficulties is an unwillingness to violate strong cultural norms of what a wife and mother should be, which represent another barrier to seeking help. As one commentator has put it: [w]ithin the Latino community, Latinas’ identities are defined on the basis of their roles as mothers and wives. By encouraging definitions of Latinas as [are] inter- connected with and dependent upon status within a family unit structure, the Latino patriarchy denies Latinas individuality on the basis of gender. For Lati- nas, cultural norms and myths of national origin intersect with these patriarchal notions of a woman’s role and identity. The result is an internal community- defined role, modified by external male-centered paradigms. Following cultural norms, Latina women tend to marry at a younger age than other women, have more children, and remain in the home rather than work.77 Battered Latinas are also more likely than white women to remain with their batterers.
Second, immigration law increases the abuser’s power over sponsored immigrant spouses—victims must stay in the relationship to gain citizenship.
Wood 2 (Sarah M. Wood, J.D., Duke University School of Law; Ph.D., Yale University; A.B., Harvard College. VAWA’s Unfinished Business: The Immigrant Women Who Fall Through the Cracks, Duke Journal of Gender Law and Policy, 2004)
In 1986, Congress amended the INA by passing the Immigration Marriage Fraud Amendments of 1986. These amendments were enacted in response to perceived abuses of spouse-sponsored immigration. Congress found that while:
[h]istorically, U.S. immigration policy has recognized the importance of protect- ing nuclear families from separation by permitting immediate family members of U.S. citizens to immigrate to the United States without numerical limita- tion[,] . . . aliens who either cannot otherwise qualify for immigration to the United States or who, though qualified, are not willing to wait until an immi- grant visa becomes available, frequently find it expedient to engage in a fraudu- lent marriage in order to side-step the immigration law. Surveys conducted by Among other provisions, the new law created criminal penalties for citizens and noncitizens who entered into a marriage for the purposes of circumventing immigration laws.22 The new law also raised the barrier to permanent resident status for immigrant spouses by establishing a two-year period of “conditional” permanent resident status.23 A noncitizen spouse whose petition is approved is only granted permanent resident status conditional upon the marriage having been entered into in good faith,24 the filing of a joint petition to remove the con- ditional status within ninety days of the second anniversary of the approval of the initial petition, and the participation of both spouses in an INS interview within ninety days of the approval of the second petition. The added burdens of a two-year waiting period for permanent resident status, the filing of a second petition, and the joint appearance at an INS inter- view increase the power that the sponsoring spouse wields over the immigra- tion status of the noncitizen spouse. Even if the citizen or permanent resident spouse agrees to sponsor the immigrant spouse and files the initial petition, he may still prevent her from achieving unconditional permanent residence if he declines to file the second petition or appear for the joint interview. In effect, the nonimmigrant spouse controls the immigration status of his spouse for an addi- tional two years under the 1986 amendments.
Third, Immigrants can’t obtain political asylum as a method of entry to stop the abuse
Wood 3 (Sarah M. Wood, J.D., Duke University School of Law; Ph.D., Yale University; A.B., Harvard College. VAWA’s Unfinished Business: The Immigrant Women Who Fall Through the Cracks, Duke Journal of Gender Law and Policy, 2004)
Political asylum is difficult to obtain for any immigrant, and most battered immigrants do not qualify for political asylum as a result of the battering they have suffered, even if the abuse occurred in their country of origin. The law of asylum provides that a noncitizen living in the United States may be granted asylum if he or she is “persecuted or . . . has a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.”31 As the persecution must have occurred in the noncitizen’s country of origin or habitual residence, abuse in the United States for any reason would not meet the statutory requirements for asylum. Abuse by a spouse or partner, even if it occurred in the noncitizen’s country of origin, is unlikely to qualify as persecution on any of the enumerated grounds unless the victim of the battery is specifically targeted on the basis of her race, religion, na- tionality, membership in a social group, or political opinion; persecution on the basis of gender by itself is, unfortunately, not a basis for political asylum.32
Fourth, Undocumented immigrants fear deportation and won’t report—this hinders their access to external resources to stop the abuse.
Wood 4 (Sarah M. Wood, J.D., Duke University School of Law; Ph.D., Yale University; A.B., Harvard College. VAWA’s Unfinished Business: The Immigrant Women Who Fall Through the Cracks, Duke Journal of Gender Law and Policy, 2004)
The fear of jeopardizing her immigration status and being removed to her native country is perhaps the greatest legal barrier faced by a battered undocu- mented immigrant. Although local law enforcement officials are not required to inquire about a victim’s immigration status, they are not barred from inquiring. The victim’s batterer, if arrested, may try to punish her further by reporting her undocumented status to law enforcement or to the INS itself. The threat of de- portation may seem greater than the threat of further battering.
There are also few legal resources available. Although IIRAIRA restored public benefits to some battered immigrants, undocumented women who are battered by men who are not their husbands or who are not legal permanent residents are still barred from receiving most federal, state, and local benefits; they are eligible only for those benefits that are considered emergency relief.80 Thus, they may not receive welfare, food stamps, Medicaid, Supplemental Secu- rity Income, or public housing benefits.81
Most undocumented immigrants are also ineligible to receive legal assis- tance from organizations that receive funding from the Legal Services Corpora- tion.82 Noncitizens who are married to U.S. citizens are eligible for Legal Ser- vices assistance only if they have filed an application to adjust their status to that of a legal permanent resident.83 As foreign-born Latinos are more likely to live below the poverty line than other victims of domestic violence, undocumented immigrants’ inability to receive legal assistance from the Legal Services Corpo- ration cuts them off from a vital legal resource. Additionally, the fear that she may lose custody of her children is a very real one to an undocumented immigrant. If she is deported, her children will not be deported with her if they are U.S. citizens. If the children’s father or other relatives wish the children to remain in the United States, they will be separated from their mother, and the father’s abuse of the mother will not pre- clude his custody of the children in many states, as long as he has not abused the children themselves. In fact, in some cases battered women have lost custody because they have failed to protect their children.86 If deported, undocumented immigrants face a three- or ten-year bar to reentry into the United States, de- pending on the length of their unlawful presence although there is an excep- tion to the bar for battered women and children. Unsurprisingly, the exception only applies to those women and children battered by U.S. citizens or perma- nent residents. Again, battered undocumented immigrants suffer disproportionately because of the structure of immigration law.
Even absent their immigrant status, domestic violence requires lethal self-defense
Ayyildiz (Elisabeth Ayyildiz. “When Battered Women’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman As Vigilante.” Journal of Gender and the Law, Vol. 4:141, Fall 1995. [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 1995; B., University of Virginia, 1991.)
To some, the death of the abuser may seem an inappropriate or excessive way for the battered woman vigilante to punish her abuser and repair the social order. Deadly force on the part of the battered woman, however, may be justified in several ways. First, death may be necessary because lesser degrees of force may be insufficient. The battered woman may not be able to confront the batterer without a deadly weapon because of disparities in size, strength or emotional control. The lower degree of force a woman typically exerts upon a man may have little or no impact on a physically stronger abuser. Indeed, a woman's lesser degree of force [and] may only incite a vicious retaliation by the abuser.
The discourse of the 1AC creates a needed countermovement—domestic violence discourse is racialized as white and fails immigrant women. Inclusion of immigrants is key.
Morrison 06 [Adele, Associate Professor of Law, Northern Illinois University College of Law, Changing the Domestic Violence (Dis)Course: Moving from White Victim to Multi-Cultural Survivor. 2006. Pp 1065-1069]
A number of scholars have critically theorized about the impact of gender and sexism in combination with race and racism on issues dealing with domestic violence. They have each concluded that battered women of color who live at the “intersections” 7 of gender and race oppression are more likely than white women to be entrapped in the cycle of abuse. 8 This Article is grounded in the critical race feminist theory 9 used by other scholars, as well as discourse analysis 10contextualized with cultural theory. 11 I place women of color at the center of domestic violence discourse analysis.A major factor in the legal system’s underserving battered women of color is the discourse about domestic violence. Domestic violence legal discourse is racialized as white and thus fails to adequately respond to the needs of women of color who are victimized by intimate abuse. 13 Legal discourse racialized as white is not unique to domestic violence. 14 Though counter discourses have been constructed, they are responses to the dominant legal discourse. 15 At its core, dominant legal discourse in the United States is white. It is constructed by, for and about whiteness. 16 Current domestic violence discourse was initially constructed as counter to the dominant; meaning that it was fundamentally feminist and challenged the patriarchy. 17 This male dominated discourse at least accepted and even condoned the abusive behaviors of men towards their wives and other female intimates. 18 Still, this feminist domestic violence construction was racialized white, meaning it was by, for, and about white women. 19 This Article explores the way whiteness, as a hegemonic force, permeates domestic violence legal discourse to the detriment of all victims of intimate abuse, but particularly battered women of color. The racial vulnerability of battered women of color makes it harder for them to escape victimization at the hands of their male abusers because they are excluded from the domestic violence discourse. They are excluded because it is a white discourse. 20 Even though the legal system has a particularly negative impact on women of color, the system currently fails not only them but white battered women as well. It holds all women back in their efforts to transition from victim to survivor by exerting complete control over the essential elements of domestic violence legal discourse: identity, process, and practice. This racialized dominant discourse results in a “white” approach to anti-domestic violence work. 21 This Article’s call is to move from a “white” approach to domestic violence intervention to a multi-cultural one.
Moreover, Immigrant domestic violence already receives little attention—focusing on heterosexual relationships is the only way to raise awareness
Menjivar and Salcido 09 (Cecilia Menjivar and Olivia Salcido, Arizona State University, Criminal Justice Studies, Immigrant Women and Domestic Violence: Common Experiences and Different Countries, Gender and Society, 09, http://www.stolaf.edu/events/globalization/Immigrant_Women_and_Domestic_Violence.pdf)
We recognize the existence of same-sex relationships among immigrant women and men, which add to the complexity of issues of domestic violence and immigration. However, in this article, we limit our discussion to heterosexual relationships for, in the already limited literature on domestic violence among immigrants, these relationships have attracted by far the most attention. We are also mindful that there are men in domestic violence situations, but we are focusing on women’s experiences because these represent the majority. For instance, in the United States, up to 95 percent of all domestic violence cases between adults are of violence against women (Goldman 1999, 387). And according to Campbell, even when there is physical aggression against men, women’s injuries tend to be more severe due to the disparity in height and weight between the two (1993, 103). We are also limiting our discussion to women in permanent settlement situations in industrialized countries. We will not discuss women in refugee camps around the world—whose situation is of grave concern—because other parameters apply there. In addition, their conditions are often different from those affecting regular or permanently settled immigrant women, particularly those who migrate to industrialized countries. However, when appropriate, that is, when refugee women’s experiences align with those of regular immigrant women, we will refer to the refugee women’s experiences as well. In this regard, we would like to note the extensive and important literature on domestic violence, as well as rights, health care, work, and so forth among refugee women in camps around the world (Colson 1995; Forbes Martin 1992; Research Resource Division for Refugees 1997). Finally, we are limiting our examination to major immigrant-receiving countries, mainly industrialized ones, so as to lend consistency to our comparisons, and because that is where most of the published research has been conducted



===Pure AC=== 

1AC
I affirm. Hanser clarifies moral permissibility:
An agent who has insufﬁcient reason for doing what he does need not on that account be acting morally impermissibly. So let us say that an agent acts morally permissibly if and only if his action embodies a practical inference whose premises’ justifying force, if any, is not successfully undermined or defeated by any moral considerations.
Therefore, the negative has the positive burden of proving the resolution impermissible since absent a reason against the use of deadly force, the resolution would be permissible. This also means that skepticism affirms because if morality doesn’t exist then it’s impossible for an action to be defeated by any moral considerations, rendering all actions permissible.
While Morality is commonly recognized as a system that guides right and wrong conduct, the specific content of Morality has been the subject of thousands of years of irresolvable debate. Conflicting moral judgments are ultimately irresolvable because they are based in differing sets of assumptions. Macintyre:
[A]n agent can only justify a particular judgment by referring to some universal rule from which it may be logically derived, and can only justify that rule in turn by deriving it from some more general rule or principle; but on this view since every chain of reasoning must be finite, such a process of justificatory reasoning must always terminate with the assertion of some rule or principle for which no further reason can be given. Each individual implicitly or explicitly has to adopt his or her own first principles on the basis of such a choice. The utterance of any universal principle is in the end an expression of the preferences of an individual will and for that will its principles have and can have only such authority as it chooses to confer upon them by adopting them.
Thus, the only way to generate moral content capable of guiding individuals is to establish moral consensus amongst the individuals being guided. This requires contractarianism. Gauthier:
Moral principles are introduced as the objects of full voluntary ex ante agreement among rational persons. Such agreement is hypothetical, in supposing a pre-moral context for the adoption of moral rules and practices. But the parties to agreement are real, determinate individuals, distinguished by their capacities, situations, and concerns. In so far as [Since] they would agree to constraints on their choices, restraining their pursuit of their own interests, they acknowledge a distinction between what they may and may not do. As rational persons understanding the structure of their interaction, they recognize a place for mutual constraint, and so for a moral dimension in their affairs.
Thus, moral prohibitions are formed when an individual voluntarily agrees to refrain from taking certain actions in exchange for similar commitments from other individuals.
However, when forming these contracts, no individual can restrain their ability to preserve themselves through self-defense. Baltzly:
I have already more than once suggested that contractarianism seems, at first glance, to provide the best means of meeting Kagan’s first challenge. But why is this? I believe it is due to an essential feature of all contractarian accounts: [is] the fact that in contractarian scenarios, bargainers will seek to minimize the ‘trade-offs’ that accompany the implementation of the social contract[s]. That is, bargainers seeking to adopt a contract for the sake of lessening the evils accompanying the state of nature do so even as they foresee that certain trade-offs will occur. For while adopting the contract will bring about protection from a great number of the evils the bargainers would encounter in the state of nature, this protection comes at the price of certain new threats that are sure to arise in life under the contract. The bargainers accept the threat of these new evils because they prefer the trade-off; still, though, [but] they will seek to make this trade-off as slight as possible. And it is precisely this desire to minimize such a trade-off that makes contractarianism such a promising means of justifying the principled exceptions to constraints on harming others required by some cases of self-defense. For it seems obvious that if a set of bargainers agrees to certain constraints on behavior because, for example, adherence to those constraints is expedient in fulfilling their desire to maximiz[ing] overall well-being, and if the bargainers also can reasonably foresee that on a few particular occasions, their very adherence to those constraints should happen to threaten or undermine overall well-being, then it seems an exception to those constraints would be warranted on those particular occasions. Furthermore, as we have just seen, this exception is grounded in the very principle that grounded the constraints in the first place – namely, the bargainers’ desire to maximize overall well-being. Any constraints agreed to by a set of bargainers, it seems, will thus be qualified in such a way as to allow for certain principled exceptions.
Since the basis for forming these agreements is because they are mutually beneficial, no individual will concede the right to self-defense when their overall wellbeing is threatened since the benefits to the agreement would be outweighed by the costs of giving up the right to self-defense. Indeed, if an individual contracts to relinquish his right to self-defense, he is not to be understood as a rational individual capable of entering into such contracts. Hobbes:
Not All Rights Are Alienable. Whensoever [Whenever] a man [transfers or renounces] Transferreth his Right, or Renounceth it; it is either in consideration of some Right reciprocally transferred to himselfe; or for some other good he hopeth for thereby. For it is a voluntary act: and of the voluntary acts of every man, the object is some Good To Himselfe. And therefore there be some Rights, which no man can be understood by any words, or other signes, to have abandoned, or transferred. As first a man cannot lay down the right of resisting [those] them, that assault him by force, to take away his life; because he cannot be understood to [aim] ayme thereby, at any Good to himselfe. The same may be sayd of Wounds, and Chayns, and Imprisonment; both because there is no benefit consequent to such patience; as there is to the patience of suffering another to be wounded, or imprisoned: as also because a man cannot tell, when he seeth men proceed against him by violence, whether they intend his death or not. And lastly [Since] the motive, and end for which this renouncing, and transferring or [his] Right is introduced, is nothing else but the security of a mans person, in his life, and in the means of so preserving life, as not to be weary of it. And therefore if a man by words, or other signes, seem [contracts] to despoyle himselfe of the End, for which [he contracts in the first place] those signes were intended; he is not to be understood as if he meant it, or that it was his will; but that he was ignorant of how such words and actions were to be interpreted.
Therefore, the standard is consistency with the contractarian right to self-defense, defined as the right to defend oneself through any means in instances where one perceives there is a threat to one's life or overall wellbeing. This is further justified because
1. The only way to account for agents’ reasons for action is to consider their internally motivating reasons. Mercer:
To begin: To understand what another has done is both to have a particular sort of true description of the action he has performed, one that reveals it to be intentional, and to know the agent’s practical reason for performing that action. In turn, to know an agent’s reason for performing some particular action involves understanding his motivation in doing it. An interpreter cannot, though, really understand an agent’s motivation in performing an action unless she sees that motivation as a motivation, unless she is cognizant of its force as a motivation. It is not enough, that is to say, to understand what a person who intentionally sips from a saucer of mud has done to note merely that he had the desire to sip from a saucer of mud, and believed himself both possessed of a saucer of mud and able to sip from it. An interpreter has also to comprehend what in desiring to sip from a saucer of mud was attractive to him. Now usually, of course, there is no problem in our comprehending what it is in the desires had by people around us that attracts them as desirable. The people around us are more or less like us in many if not most of their desires, wants and wishes, and few of them desire to sip from a saucer of mud, so in our day to day life we do not often have cause to turn our attention explicitly to the question from whence arrives the motivational force of their desires. Still, it is not exceedingly uncommon for us, even for those of us who are not psychologists, sociologists, or anthropologists, to be stumped by some piece of what we take to be behaviour. How are we to make sense of some such piece of strange behaviour? One way is to connect that piece of behaviour to one or more of the strange agent’s self-regarding ends. If we can see in sipping from a saucer of mud a way of maintaining self-respect, or even a way to delight in the taste of mud, we can understand the desire the agent had to sip from a saucer of mud. We need not connect his self-regarding end to an intention to realize that end in or through his action; we need only, I think, connect it to an expectation of realizing it. But is this the only way we can make sense of desires we ourselves do not share and cannot, at first at least, imagine sharing? I think that it is. Without our perceiving a connection to an intention or an expectation of realizing some self-regarding end, we cannot see in any consideration we attribute to an agent a motivation to act. The motivating force of the consideration that spurred action will remain beyond our ken, the action stemming from it unfathomable and inexplicable.

I contend that there is a perceived threat to the lives and overall wellbeing of victims of domestic violence.
A. Domestic violence is a major cause of death and injury to victims and represents a substantial harm to their overall wellbeing. Wright:
In addition, 30% of domestic violence incidents involve the use of a weapon and the injuries that battered women receive are at least as severe as those suffered in 90% of violent felonies. In fact, each year approximately two million of these women suffer severe beatings at the hands of their spouses or partners. Unfortunately, over three women every day are murdered by their husbands; ! 6 frequently experiencing "prolonged, brutal deaths after years of violence.
Moreover, this applies to gay and lesbian victims, too. Bricker:
Annette Green's case is compelling on a number of different levels. First, it is a part of the growing body of evidence that intimate violence n15 is as prevalent in the gay and lesbian community as it is in the heterosexual community. n16 Second, it is the first case in which an expert on battered woman's syndrome was [*1383] permitted to testify in a battered lesbian self-defense case. n17 Third, it stands as stark evidence that testimony on battered woman's syndrome fails many defendants who do not fit the stereotype of the "good battered woman." n18 Although heterosexual women are most likely to experience intimate violence from male partners, n19 there is evidence that gay men and lesbians n20 are as likely, proportionally, to encounter violence in their intimate relationships. n21 Furthermore, typical [*1384] gay and lesbian violence and its patterns and effects appear to be virtually identical to heterosexual intimate violence. n22 The only difference, which is not minor, is the couple's shared gender. Despite this difference, however, the severity of the violence against gay and lesbian partners often yields the same result: victimized partners resort to lethal force. In some of these cases, like those of some heterosexual battered women, the lethal conduct occurs in circumstances that support a viable self-defense claim.
B. Leaving the abuser causes more harm—deadly force is the safest available option.
Koons (Koons, Judith E. [Associate Professor of Law, Barry University School of Law]. Gunsmoke and Legal Mirrors: Women Surviving Intimate Battery and Deadly Legal Doctrines. Journal of Law and Policy, 2006.)
The unworkability of a retreat rule is manifest when considering the phenomenon of separation assault. Legal scholars have defined separation assault as "the attack on the woman's body and volition in which her partner keeps her from leaving, retaliates for the separation, or forces her to return." The concept of separation assault recognizes that patterns of violence, already dramatic, often increase upon a woman's separation from a battering man. According to the Department of Justice, seventy-five percent of assaults occur when the abused party is divorced or separated from the abuser. Another study indicates that forty-five percent of murders of women arise out of a man's "rage over the actual or impending estrangement from his partner." Women who are separated from their spouses are three times more likely to be attacked than divorced women and twenty-five times more likely to be attacked than married women. Even a limited retreat rule, as had been carved out by the Florida Supreme Court, places women at increased risk of violence. It is at the moment of separation - the first physical move toward separation - that a battering man is prone to become more violent. A decision - or even a threat - to leave can trigger lethal violence. Because domestic violence is marked by power and control, attempting to exit a room may be considered "disobedience," spurring escalated violence. Resistance strategies (such as leaving a room) may force an abuser "to make his coercive power explicit. Any threat, however small, to the abuser's authority within the family is likely to be met with violence."According to one woman, "The best way to avoid [battering] was to show as little reaction as possible ... I didn't dare argue with him or challenge him - for fear of my life actually." Trying to exit past a raging man may be the final move of a woman seeking only to avoid violence. Killing a battering man may be the safest available alternative.
That link turns deont NCs because 1. the victim’s only option is to act in self-defense with deadly force to preserve their moral worth. The abuser loses their moral rights through their controlling abuse which reduces the victim’s agency. Violations of agency are impermissible thus the victim must take lethal action to restore it. 2. No other option means deadly force is the only way to convey retribution. Retribution is key to conveying the moral wrong and thus is the only rational action.
C. Victims are put into a psychological state where they believe that there are no other options and that violence can erupt at any second. Even if the threat to their well-being isn’t real, victims perceive it as such. The Supreme Court of Kansas writes:
Thus, we can see from this brief synopsis that there is no easy answer to why battered women stay with their abusive husbands. Quite likely emotional and financial dependency and fear are the primary reasons for remaining in the household. They feel incapable of reaching out for help and justifiably fear reprisals from their angry husbands if they leave or call the police. The abuse is so severe, for so long a time, and the threat of great bodily harm so constant, it creates a standard mental attitude in its victims. Battered women are terror-stricken people whose mental state is distorted and bears a marked resemblance to that of a hostage or a prisoner of war. The horrible beatings they are subjected to brainwash them into believing there is nothing they can do. They live in constant fear of another eruption of violence. They become disturbed persons from the torture.
D. The gravity of the threat imposed by domestic violence makes any action the victim takes a moral tragedy—either they are forced to take a human life or they risk dying themselves. However, in such tragic situations, both actions are morally permissible. Statman:
Supreme emergencies, I believe, are not instances of genuine paradox. They are, rather, cases of moral tragedy. A moral tragedy occurs when, all things considered, every viable option one is confronted with involves a serious moral violation. In a supreme emergency, this is clear: if one violates jus in bello, one commits murder and perhaps other crimes. On the other hand, if one does not violate jus in bello, one’s omissions may contribute causally to the death and devastation of one’s people at the hands of a brutal, rights-violating aggressor. 7 Perceiving supreme emergencies as [are] cases of moral tragedy implies that, in such cases, one faces a ‘moral blind alley’ (ibid.), with nowhere to turn, and no way to stay morally clean. But precisely because the alley is blind, i.e. all options are morally unacceptable, one cannot be blamed for choosing one option (committing murder or other crimes) over the other (negatively contributing to the death of one’s own people and the devastation of one’s own land), because such choice does not amount to neglecting the right course of action. The Tragedy Solution, then, offers the following argument: (1) In moral tragedies, the agent cannot be blamed for any course of action she chooses, because no respectable course of action is available; (2) Supreme emergencies are cases of moral tragedy; (3) Hence, in supreme emergencies, the political and military agents cannot be blamed for killing the innocent, or for committing other problematic actions against the enemy (given that such actions are necessary for victory). On Orend’s view, then, Walzer might have been right in assuming that Churchill’s bombing of German cities was immune to moral reproach, but for reasons different to those he mentioned. The immunity is not the result of some kind of utilitarian calculus, but an implication from the tragic nature of the situation. In reconstructing Orend’s argument, I have ascribed to him the view that killing the innocent in supreme emergencies is permissible.
And as an underview,
A. Deontology affirms. The aggressor’s use of the victim as a means to an end is what justifies self-defense for the victim alone. Herman:
So first--why may I kill to resist aggression? What reasons could I of fer to rebut the presumption against violence? It is not that I may kill in order to keep myself from becoming dead—something I do not want to happen. Death is part of the fate of human agents. The kind of value or moral standing I have as an agent is not lost or compromised in dying. What a maxim of aggression or violence involves, morally speaking, is the discounting of my agency. The aggressor would use me (take my life) for his purposes. This is what I resist, and claim moral title to refuse. As I cannot agree to become someone's slave, so I must not assent to be the victim of aggression. This gives more than permission for an act of self-defense when that is necessary to resist the aggression; it imposes a requirement that aggression be resisted. Though I may not be able to prevent the aggressor's success, I may not be passive in the face of aggression. Passivity here is like complicity. It does not follow from a requirement of non-passivity that I must act in self-defense. I might have a commitment to resist and have reason not to do any of the things available as acts of resistance (suppose they involved loss of innocent lives). What is clear is this?it is not the fact of death but the death-as-a-means to the aggressor's purposes that gives moral title to resistance and self-defense. The circumstances of aggression rebut the presumption against violence.
B. Util affirms. Deadly force solves the abuse in the short and long term. Zipursky:
A similar argument applies with regard to the possibility of more pervasive physical and psychological forms of domination. What is at stake, in this regard, is not only physical security, but, as Jane Cohen has pointed out, liberty of thought, speech, movement, and sexuality. Physical domination is an instrument for the elimination of these forms of liberty, and for the elimination of psychological independence and well-being. And one particularly important enhancement of the physical domination is the elimination of the dominated woman's access to outside help. If use of deadly force in no-access situations were permitted, then it would arguably be the case that: (1) she would increase her ability to avert death or injury in the sort of “no-access” case that does frequently arise in these scenarios; (2) to the extent that her sense of lack of liberty and helplessness were based on actual condition, she might experience a greater sense of liberty because, if access has truly been cut off, she will have the right to defend herself; and (3) the assailant could no longer count on being able to rape and terrorize her by cutting off access and engaging in brutal conduct without facing the risk of defensive homicide (a risk that would presumably increase substantially if such defensive homicide were legal). Perhaps this fact would diminish the terrorizing conduct and the cutting off of access. With regard to both forms of domination I have considered, it might also be added that society might change so that access for women to alternative paths of relief were more available than it now is. If the cost to society of no-access scenarios were women killing men without criminal liability, the state might be more motivated to provide alternative avenues for relief. This provision of access would arguably enhance women's security.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[1] Matthew Hanser, “Permissibility and Practical Inference,” Ethics Vol. 115, No. 3 (April 2005), pp. 443-470.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[1] Alasdair Macintyre. __After Virtue__. Book. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[1] David Gauthier. __Morals by Agreement__. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. </span>
[1] Vaughn Baltzly. “Contractarianism and Moderate Morality”, Thesis for MA in Philosophy, [[http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/theses/available/etd-07142001-091919/unrestricted/BryanThesis.PDF]]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[1] Thomas Hobbes. __Leviathan__. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[1] Mark Mercer. “In Defense of Weak Psychological Egoism.” //Erkenntnis//, Vol. 55, 2001. Department of Philosophy. Saint Mary’s University. </span>
[1] Nancy Wright [law professor at Santa Clara Law School, “Voice for the Voiceless: The Case for Adopting the "Domestic Abuse Syndrome" for Self Defene Purposes for All Victims of Domestic Violence Who Kill Their Abusers”, Criminal Law Brief, Volume 4, 2009]
[1] Denise Bricker, [“FATAL DEFENSE: AN ANALYSIS OF BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME EXPERT TESTIMONY FOR GAY MEN AND LESBIANS WHO KILL ABUSIVE PARTNERS” Brooklyn Law Review, Volume 58, 1993 ]
<span class="FootnoteCharacters">[1]</span> **STATE OF KANSAS, Appellee, v. BETTY HUNDLEY, Appellant.** No. 56,244. Opinion filed January 11, 1985. http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=7172490382886741520&hl=en&as_sdt=2&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[1] Daniel Statman. “Moral Tragedies, Supreme Emergencies, and National-Defence. //Journal of Applied Philosophy//, Vol. 23, No. 3, 2006. </span>
[1] Barbara Herman “MURDER AND MAYHEM: VIOLENCE AND KANTIAN CASUISTRY” The Monist, Vol. 72, No. 3, Kant's Practical Philosophy (JULY 1989), pp. 411-431.
[1]Zipursky, Benjamin C. Self-Defense and Relations of Domination: Moral and Legal Perspectives on Battered Women who Kill: Self Defense, Domination, and the Social Contract. University of Pittsburgh Law Review. 1996.

===Util AC=== 
1AC
I affirm
**First, Aff gets obligation ground**
**A. For an action to be obligatory, it must also be permissible because you cant require an action that you aren’t allowed to take as that is logically contradictory. To say otherwise makes morality non-functional. This functions as a textual side constraint on any theory arg regarding obligation.**
**B. No abuse as long as aff offense only proves it is obligatory and doesn’t derive offense from morally permissible. No reciprocity claims because I only have 1 out.**
**C. If the aff can only claim moral permissibility ground neg can co-opt the AC by advocating obligation and claiming benefits off the requirement. This kills fairness because it forces 1ar restart to generate unique access to the ballot.**
Epistemology comes before all other ethical foundations because labeling things moral or immoral is just a function of our knowledge. We need to know how we know what right and wrong are before we can pick the best definition.
And, a priori reasoning is impossible so the only epistemologically sound basis for morality is experience
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz</span> “A Defense of Naïve Empiricism: It is Neither Self-Refuting Nor Dogmatic.” Stephen P. Schwartz. Ithaca College. pp.1-14.”
The empirical support for the fundamental principle of empiricism is diffuse but salient. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our common empirical experience and experimental psychology offer evidence that humans do not have any capacity to garner knowledge except by empirical sources. </span>The fact is that we believe that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is no source of knowledge</span>, information, or evidence <span style="font-size: 12pt;">apart from observation</span>, empirical scientific investigations, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and our sensory experience of the world</span>, and we believe this on the basis of our empirical a posteriori experiences and our general empirical view of how things work. For example, we believe on empirical evidence that<span style="font-size: 12pt;">humans are continuous with the rest of nature and</span>that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">we rely</span> like other animals <span style="font-size: 12pt;">on our senses to tell us how things are. </span>If humans are more successful than other animals, it is not because we possess special non-experiential ways of knowing, but because we are better at cooperating, collating, and inferring. In particular<span style="font-size: 12pt;">we do not have any capacity for substantive a priori knowledge. There is no known mechanism by which such knowledge would be made possible.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is an empirical claim.</span>
Moreover, experiential reasoning is inevitable—all moral deliberations are based on previous dispositions
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blackburn continues </span>
What is true is that we ‘find ourselves’ with this or that concern, and if the experience is unpleasant, as when we find ourselves shamefully addicted to something, or obsessed by something or someone, or for that matter guiltily ceasing to care for things or people we once did care for, then it can feel as if we are assailed from outside, a victim of forces not of our own making. But, after all, it is always forces not of our own making that are responsible for who we are in the first place: in my case, they have made me into a middle-aged white male of a certain education and class: in your case, probably something not too dissimilar, by historical and global standards. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kant’s aim was to present the true self</span>, the deliberator, as free from all that. He (or she) is not an embodiment of a social view, or religion, or class, or gender, but <span style="font-size: 12pt;">simply of reason and morality. But nothing on</span> this <span style="font-size: 12pt;">earth that makes deliberations is free of his or her natural </span>and acquired<span style="font-size: 12pt;">dispositions</span>as they do so. You, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">when you deliberate</span>, are whatever <span style="font-size: 12pt;">you are: a person of tangled desires, </span>conflicting attitudes to your parents, inchoate ambitions, preferences, and ideals, with an inherited ragbag of attitudes to different actions, situations, and characters. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">You do not manage</span>, ever, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">to stand apart from all that</span>. Once more, the Kantian fantasy remains seductive. There is an emotional pressure to think we can transcend these given facts about ourselves. Christine <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korsgaard maintains</span> that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the ‘reflective structure</span> of human consciousness’ <span style="font-size: 12pt;">gives us</span> a necessary <span style="font-size: 12pt;">distance</span> from our desires and impulses. But the claim is ambiguous, and right only in a sense which does not help the Kantian. In the sense in which it is right, it means only that one can stand back from a particular desire or impulse, and accept or reject its pressure on one. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Certainly we can do this, in the light of other desires and concerns</span>. What is <span style="font-size: 12pt;">not</span> thereby given is that we can do it <span style="font-size: 12pt;">from a standpoint independent of any desire or concern: independent of a desire for our own good</span>, or for the happiness of humanity, or respect for this or that, or the myriad of other passions that make up our individual profiles of concern and care.
Next, all humans experience the badness of pain and the goodness of pleasure
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nagel</span>, Thomas Nagel, The View From Nowhere, HUP, 1986: 156-168
I shall defend the unsurprising claim that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">sensory pleasure is good and pain bad</span>, no matter whose they are. The point of the exercise is to see how the pressures of objectification operate in a simple case. Physical pleasure and pain do not usually depend on activities or desires which themselves raise questions of justification and value. They are just sensory experiences in relation to which we are fairly passive, but toward which we feel involuntary desire or aversion. Almost <span style="font-size: 12pt;">everyone takes the avoidance of his own pain and the promotion of his own pleasure as subjective reasons for action</span>in a fairly simple way; they are not back up by any further reasons. On the other hand if someone pursues pain or avoids pleasure, either it as a means to some end or it is backed up by dark reasons like guilt or sexual masochism. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">What sort of general value, if any, ought to be assigned to pleasure and pain when we consider these facts from an objective standpoint?</span> What kind of judgment can we reasonably make about these things when we view them in abstraction from who we are? <span style="font-size: 12pt;">We can begin by asking why there is no plausibility in the zero position, that pleasure and pain have no value of any kind that can be objectively recognized</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">That would mean that I have no reason to take aspirin for a severe headache, however I may in fact be motivated; and that looking at it from outside, you couldn't even say that someone had a reason not to put his hand on a hot stove, just because of the pain</span>. Try looking at it from the outside and see whether you can manage to withhold that judgment. If the idea of objective practical reason makes any sense at all, so that there is some judgment to withhold, it does not seem possible. If the general arguments against the reality of objective reasons are no good, then<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it is at least possible that I have a reason, </span>and not just an inclination, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">to refrain from putting my hand on a hot stove</span>. But given the possibility, it seems meaningless to deny that this is so. Oddly enough, however, we can think of a story that would go with such a denial. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">It might be suggested that the aversion to pain is a useful phobia—having nothing to do with the intrinsic undesirability of pain itself</span>—which helps us avoid or escape the injuries that are signaled by pain. (The same type of purely instrumental value might be ascribed to sensory pleasure: the pleasures of food, drink, and sex might be regarded as having no value in themselves, though our natural attraction to them assists survival and reproduction.) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">There would then be nothing wrong with pain in itself, and someone who was never motivated deliberately to do anything just because he knew it would reduce or avoid pain would have nothing the matter with him. He would still have involuntary avoidance reactions, otherwise it would be hard to say that he felt pain at all.</span> And he would be motivated to reduce pain for other reasons—because it was an effective way to avoid the danger being signaled, or because interfered with some physical or mental activity that was important to him. [Imagine someone]<span style="font-size: 12pt;">He just wouldn't regard the pain as itself something he had any reason to avoid, even though he hated [it] the feeling just as much as the rest of us</span>. (<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And</span> of course <span style="font-size: 12pt;">he wouldn't be able to justify the avoidance of pain in the way that we customarily justify avoiding what we hate without reaso</span>n—that is, on the ground that even an irrational hatred makes its object very unpleasant!) There is nothing self-contradictory in this proposal, but it seems nevertheless insane. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Without some positive reason to think there is nothing in itself good or bad about having an experience you intensely like or dislike, we can't seriously regard the common impression to the contrary as a collective illusion</span>. Such things are at least good or bad for us, if anything is. What seems to be going on here is that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">we cannot from an objective standpoint withhold a certain kind of endorsement of the most direct and immediate subjective value judgments we make concerning the contents of our own consciousness</span>. We regard ourselves as too close to those things to be mistaken in our immediate, nonideological evaluative impressions. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">No objective view we can attain could possibly overrule our subjective authority in such cases. There can be no reason to reject the appearances here.</span>
Thus because each agent values their own pleasure, they must also value the pleasure of others.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sayre McCord</span> Sayre-McCord, Geoffrey, “Mill's "Proof" of the Principle of Utility: A More than Half-Hearted Defense.” UNC/Chapel Hill: Social Philosophy & Policy, vol. 18, no. 2; Spring 2001, p. 330-360.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">According to the second argument, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the evaluative starting point is</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">again </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">each person thinking "my own happiness is valuable," </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">but </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">this fact about each person is taken as evidence, with respect to each bit of happiness that is valued</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, that that bit is valuable. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Each person</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">is seen as </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ha[s]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ving reason to think that the happiness she enjoys is valuable, and </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">reason to think</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of others -- given that they are in a parallel situation with respect to the happiness they enjoy -- that each person's happiness is such that</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> there is the same evidence available to each for the value of the happiness that another person enjoys as there is for the value of one's own happiness. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">If </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">happiness is such that every piece of it is desired by someone</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, then it seems as if, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">in taking ourselves to have reason to see the bit we value as valuable, we are committed to acknowledging the value of all the rest.</span>
Thus, because we have no non-arbitrary reason to value our own pleasure over the pleasure of others, the standard is maximizing expected well-being.
Prefer the standard,
1. Act Omission doesn’t exist--<span class="LDAnalytics">every inaction is an action itself, so we’re equally responsible for omissions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rachels</span>James Rachels. “Killing and Letting Die.” http://www.jamesrachels.org/killing.pdf
So <span style="font-size: 12pt;">what is the difference between causing and allowing? </span>What real difference is marked by those words? The most obvious ways of attempting <span style="font-size: 12pt;">to draw the distinction won’t work. </span>For example, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">suppose we say it is the difference between action and inaction</span>--when we cause an outcome, we do something, but when we merely allow it to happen, we passively stand by and do nothing. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">This won’t work because, when we allow something to happen, we </span>do <span style="font-size: 12pt;">perform at least one act: the act of allowing it to happen. </span>The problem is that the distinction between doing something and not doing something is relative to the specification of what is or is not done--<span style="font-size: 12pt;">if I allow someone to die, I do not save him, but I do let him die. </span>It is tempting to say the difference between action and inaction is the difference between moving one’s body and not moving one’s body; but that does not help. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">When we allow something to happen, we are </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">typically </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">moving our bodies in all sorts of ways. If I allow you to die by running away, I may be moving my body very rapidly.</span>
If there is no act-omission distinction, then we are fully complicit with any harms we allow, so decisions are moral if they minimize harm.
[//[If there’s no act-omission distinction, then deontology collapses into consequentialism because deontology holds that my killing anyone else is wrong. But if my killing anyone else is wrong, then it is also wrong for me to let others kill people. I am responsible for all the ends of my actions.]//
2. Respect for the equal value of rational beings mandates consequentialism.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cummiskey</span> Kantian Consequentialism Author(s): David Cummiskey Source: Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3 (Apr., 1990), pp. 586-615 Published by: The University of Chicago Press
In such a situation, what would a conscientious Kantian agent, an agent motivated by the undonditional value of rational beings, choose? <span style="font-size: 12pt;">We have a duty to promote the conditions necessary for the existence of rational beings, but both choosing to act and choosing not to act will cost the life of a rational being</span>. Since the basis of Kant’s principle is “rational nature exists as end-in-itself” (GMM, p. 429),<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the reasonable solution </span>to such a dilemma <span style="font-size: 12pt;">involves promoting</span>, insofar as one can, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the conditions necessary for rational beings,</span> I do not use them arbitrarily and I do not deny the unconditional value of rational beings. Persons may have “dignity, an unconditional and incomparable value” that transcends any market value (GMM, p. 436), but, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">as rational beings, persons</span> also <span style="font-size: 12pt;">have a fundamental equality which dictates that some must sometimes give way for the sake of others.</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The formula of the end-in-itself thus does not support the view that we may never force another to bear some cost in order to benefit others.</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;"> If one focuses on the equal value of all rational beings, then equal consideration dictates that one sacrifice some to save many.</span>
Contention One is Deterrence and Reform
First, deadly force is key to criminal justice reform
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clark</span> (Natalie Loder Clark, [Professor of Law, Northern Illinois University. LL.M., Columbia University, 1973; J.D., Marshall-Wythe School of Law, College of William and Mary, 1972; B.A., State University of New York-Albany, 1963.] Crime Begins at Home: Let's Stop Punishing Victimsand Perpetuating Violence, 28. 1987.)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The criminal justice system already effectively deals with domestic violence culminating in murder.</span> Fortunately, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">people take murder seriously, even when it occurs in a domestic setting</span>. Unfortunately, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">however, murder within the family is not usually seen as the predictable end of domestic violence</span>. 81 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">If it were so seen, criminal prosecution of abusers would be common. The use of vigorous criminal prosecution in cases where domestic violence has not yet reached murderous consequenceswould reduce the number of such murders, both those committed by unchecked abusers and those committed by desperate victims who see no other available protection for themselves</span>
Second, Deadly force deters and incites reform
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zipursky</span>, Benjamin C. Self-Defense and Relations of Domination: Moral and Legal Perspectives on Battered Women who Kill: Self Defense, Domination, and the Social Contract. University of Pittsburgh Law Review. 1996.
A similar argument applies with regard to the possibility of more [*591] pervasive physical and psychological forms of domination. What is at stake, in this regard, is not only physical security, but, as Jane Cohen has pointed out, liberty of thought, speech, movement, and sexuality. Physical domination is an instrument for the elimination of these forms of liberty, and for the elimination of psychological independence and well-being. And one particularly important enhancement of the physical domination is the elimination of the dominated woman's access to outside help. 38 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">If use of deadly force in no-access situations were permitted, then it would arguably be the case that: (1) she would increase her ability to avert death or injury in the sort of "no-access" case that does frequently arise in these scenarios; (2) to the extent that her sense of lack of liberty and helplessness were based on her actual condition, she might experience a greater sense of liberty because, if access has truly been cut off, she will still have the right to defend herself; and (3) the assailant could no longer count on being able to</span>rape and<span style="font-size: 12pt;">terrorize her by cutting off access and engaging in brutal conduct without facing the risk of</span>defensive<span style="font-size: 12pt;">homicide (</span>a risk that would presumably increase substantially if such defensive homicide were legal). Perhaps this fact would diminish the terrorizing conduct and the cutting off of access. With regard to both forms of domination I have considered, it might also be added that society might change so that access for women to alternative paths of relief were more available than it now is. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">If the cost to society of no-access scenarios were women killing men without criminal liability, the state might be more motivated to provide alternative avenues of relief. This provision of access would arguably enhance women's security.</span>
Third, Deadly forces deters further domestic abuse—each death results in 7.5 fewer murders
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Southwick</span> (Southwick, Jr., Lawrence. //Guns and Justifiable Homicide: Deterrence and Defense.// Saint Louis University Public Law Review. 1999. Accessed Lexis-Nexis.)
From an initial look at these data it would seem that the risk of death at the hands of either the police or civilians would be of obvious concern to felons. It is evident that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">executions provide a disincentive to commit murder</span>, as found by Ehrlich (1975) who found that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">each execution deterred approximately seven to eight murders</span>. Of course, justifiable homicides by police and by civilians are not solely in response to murder but are the result of attempts to commit murder either directly or in the course of committing other crimes. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, if each execution and each justifiable homicide results in 7.5 fewer murders, the total of 697 justifiable homicides each year should have deterred over 5,200 murders each year. </span>Compared with the approximately 21,500 murders actually occurring each year as shown in Table 2, this implies that the murder rate would have been about 24 percent higher without these justifiable homicides. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The civilian justifiable homicides averaged 299 per year, which should have saved over 2,200 murders per year.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sub Point A is the harms </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, 4 Million women abused each year with 2,000 deaths—that’s only what goes reported </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Craig-Taylor</span> (Phyliss Craig-Taylor, Professor of Law Charlotte School of Law, LIFTING THE VEIL: THE INTERSECTIONALITY OF ETHICS, CULTURE, AND GENDER BIAS IN DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CASES, 2008, Rutgers Law Record, Lexis)
The necessity for effective and ethical representation is underscored by the facts that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">of the four million women who are victimized each year nearly two thousand die</span>. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">23 "Every day four women die in this country as a result of domestic violence,</span>the euphemism for murders and assaults by husbands and boyfriends. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">That's </span>approximately <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1,400 women each year</span>, according to the [Federal Bureau of Investigation]." 24 Ironically, this number is more than the 170 executions from death penalty cases during the first half of the 1990's or the 370 executions in the second half of the decade. 25 In death penalty cases, several states have acknowledged that the nature of the cases requires specialized attention to ethics and professionalism. 26 The sheer magnitude of tragic deaths from domestic violence should highlight the need for similar attention to ethics and professionalism in domestic violence cases. As many domestic violence cases involve a similar life and death dilemma and the number of reported deaths is so high, these cases.
Second, Multiple physical impacts to domestic violence—prefer the study, it is ethnically heterogeneous and consists of data retrieved from personal interviews with the victim rather than a third party.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berrios and Grady</span> (Domestic Violence Risk Factors and Outcomes, 1991, The Western Journal of Medicine, DANIEL C., MD, MPH, and DEBORAH, MD, MPH, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1002942/pdf/westjmed00096-0029.pdf
The 218 women interviewed ranged in age from 16 to 66 years (median age 29 years, standard deviation 10 years). Both victims and batterers were ethnically heterogeneous, reflecting the ethnically diverse population of San Francisco. About a third of victims were employed and about a third received public assistance. Only 16 women (7%) listed their primary source of financial support as the batterer (Table 1). The age of the assailants ranged from 19 to 72 years (median 31 years, SD 10 years). In the overwhelming majority of cases, the victim was related to the batterer as a current or former girlfriend (51% of cases) or as wife (42%). The duration of the relationship between the victim and the batterer ranged from 1 month to 30 years, with a median of 3 years (Table 2). At the time of the incident, 67% of the victims were living with the batterer. In 48% of the cases, the batterer was described by the victim as having an alcohol or drug problem, and, in 43% of the cases, alcohol or drug use was reportedly involved in the index episode of abuse. For the vast majority of the victims, the incident was not the first episode of abuse in their relationship. At least one previous episode of abuse was reported by 86% <span style="font-size: 12pt;">of the victims, 40% had required medical attention for abuse in the past</span>, and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">13% had required hospital admission for previous abuse</span>. In addition, 10% of the victims reported that they were. pregnant at the time of abuse, 30% reported that they had been abused during a previous pregnancy, and 5% stated that they had miscarried because of abuse; <span style="font-size: 12pt;">16% of the victims reported that they had attempted suicide</span> (Table 3). Of all women interviewed, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">28% were admitted to hospital for treatment of injuries, and 13% underwent major surgical intervention</span>. Victims frequently required radiographic studies (4 1%), stitches or casting (25%), and medications (27%). Some had loss of consciousness (11%) or permanent injury (disfigurement, hearing loss, or visual impairment; 5%) resulting from the abusive episode. In addition to bruises (70%), t<span style="font-size: 12pt;">he victims frequently suffered lacerations (39%), choking or strangulation (23%), musculoskeletal injuries </span>(such as bone fractures, tendon or ligament injuries, or joint dislocations; 25%), and internal injuries (13%) (Table 4). <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frequently assaulted areas of the body included the face, skull, eyes, upper trunk, and extremities</span> (Table 5). <span style="font-size: 12pt;">A third of the cases involved a weapon, such as a knife, club, or gun </span>(Table 6). In 51% of the cases of violence studied, children lived in the household where the violence took place; in 35%, one or more children had witnessed the abuse. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">In 10%, the victims reported that their children were also abused by the batterer.</span>
Contention Two is Patriarchy
First, Deadly force solves patriarchy. Mandating that the victim take some other option or avoid the violence just re-entrenches patriarchy. It’s try or die for the aff.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gelderloos:</span> Peter, How Nonviolence Protects the State, attended James Madison University, p. 66-8]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">a pacifist practice that forbids the use of any other tactics leaves no option for people who need to protect themselves from violence now. In the case of </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">rape and other forms of</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">violence against women, nonviolence implies the same lessons that patriarchy has taught for millennia. It glorifies passivity, "turning the other cheek," and "dignified suffering" among the oppressed</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. In one of the most lucid texts defining the preservation and implementation of patriarchy—the Old Testament—story upon commandment upon parable upon law counsel women to suffer injustice patiently and pray for the divine Authority to intervene. (This prescription is remarkably similar to pacifists' faith in the corporate media to disseminate images of dignified suffering and motivate the "decision-making authority" to implement justice).</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because patriarchy clearly prescribes a one-sided male violence, women would be disrupting this power dynamic, not reinforcing it, by relearning their propensity for violence." </span>To reiterate, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">women reclaiming the ability and right to use force </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">would not by itself end patriarchy, but it </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">is a necessary condition for gender liberation, as well as a useful form of empowerment and protection in the short term.</span>
Second, Patriarchy is the root cause of warfare and militarism. The impact is nuclear war and extinction
<span class="Author-Date">Spretnak in 1989</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[ MA in English from Berkely] Source: Charlene, Exposing Nuclear Phallacies, Editor, Diana EH Russell, Page: 60, Title: : Charlene, Exposing Nuclear Phallacies, CD)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Women and men can live together</span> and can relate to other societies <span style="font-size: 12pt;">in </span>any number of cultural <span style="font-size: 12pt;">configurations, but ignorance of the configurations themselves locks a populace into blind adherence to the statusquo. </span>In <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the nuclear age</span>, such <span style="font-size: 12pt;">unexamined acceptance</span>may be fatal as certain cultural assumptions in our own society <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[is] are pushing us closer and closer to war.</span> Since <span style="font-size: 12pt;">amajor war could now easily bring on massive annihilation</span>of almost unthinkable proportions, why are discussions in our national forums addressing this madness of the nuclear arms race limited to matters of hardware and statistics? A more comprehensive analysis is needed-unless, as the doomsayers claim, we collectively harbor a death wish and no not really want to look closely at dynamics <span style="font-size: 12pt;">propelling us </span>steadily <span style="font-size: 12pt;">toward </span>the brink of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">extinction. The cause of nuclear arms proliferation is militarism. </span>What is the cause of militarism? The traditional militarist explanation is that the “masters of war” in the military-industrial complex profit enormously from defense contracts and other war preparations. A capitalist economy periodically requires the economic boon that large-scale government spending, capitol investment, and worker sacrifice produce during a crisis of war. In addition, American armed forces, whether nuclear or conventional, are stationed worldwide to protect the status quo, which requires vast and interlocking American corporate interests. Suck an economic analysis alone in inadequate, as the recent responses to the nuclear arms race that ignore the cultural orientation of the nations involved: They are patriarchies. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Militarism and warfare are continual features of patriarchal society because they reflect and instill patriarchal values and fulfill essential needs of such a system. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Acknowledging the context of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">patriarchal conceptualizations that feed militarism is a first step toward reducing their impact and preserving life on Earth.</span>
And, Ethical agnosticism should lead us to default towards preventing extinction as a meta-constraint on all ethical theories. Since we presently lack definitive grounds for believing any particular moral theory, we should default to rules, which maximize our ability to continue to engage in moral reasoning and chance of finding demonstrable moral truths. Bostrom
“These reflections on <span style="font-size: 12pt;">moral uncertainty suggest[s] </span>an alternative, complementary way of looking at existential risk. Let me elaborate. Our __**[**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">that our] present understanding of axiology might well be confused. We may not </span>now <span style="font-size: 12pt;">know</span>—at least not in concrete detail—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">what outcomes would count as a big win for humanity; we might not even yet be able to imagine the best ends of our journey. If we are indeed profoundly uncertain about our ultimate aims, then we should recognize that there is a great option value in preserving</span>**—**and ideally improving—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">our ability to recognize value and to steer the future accordingly. Ensuring that there will be a future version of humanity with great powers and a propensity to use them wisely is plausibly the best way</span>available to us <span style="font-size: 12pt;">to increase the probability that the future will contain a lot of value.</span>
Also, this doesn’t contradict the util fw it justifies it--Util is the only framework which maximizes our ability to engage in ethical reasoning because it preserves the greatest amount of existence. This places the neg in a double bind either a. extinction comes before their moral theory or b. util is true and their moral theory is false.
Contention Three is only Deadly force solves
First, Put away your counterplans—Domestic violence resources don’t stop the abuse—they just prevent victims from protecting themselves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dugan et al. 03</span> (Laura Dugan et al, funded by the National Institute of Justice and the National Consortium of Violence, Law & Society Review, 2003, http://www.andrews.edu/~rbailey/Chapter%2016/9653133.pdf)
Other research has utilized comparative designs that incorporate data for several types of domestic violence resources from a large number of jurisdictions. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Browne and Williams</span> (1989) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">examined the effects of domestic violence services and legislation on intimate-partner homicide rates using state-level cross-sectional data. </span>Their ﬁndings indicate some policy impact: <span style="font-size: 12pt;">greater service availability is signiﬁcantly associated with a lower rate of married women killing their husbands. However, service availability was not found to be related to lower rates of men killing their wives</span> (see Browne, Williams, & Dutton 1999 for discussion). <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The ﬁnding</span> of divergent effects of domestic violence services on intimate-partner homicide by gender wa<span style="font-size: 12pt;">s replicated in a longitudinal analysis of intimate-partner homicide victimization in 29 large U.S. cities</span> (Dugan, Nagin, & Rosenfeld 1999). The authors found that legal advocacy services are associated with reduced victimization for married men, but not for women (Dugan, Nagin, & Rosenfeld 1999). The above studies reach an ironic conclusion: <span style="font-size: 12pt;">resources designed to protect women from violent men appear to have a stronger role in keeping men from being killed by their partners. Men’s homicidal behavior toward female intimates statistically remains the same regardless of the amount of resources available to battered women. Although there are clear social beneﬁts to averting both the murder of men and the likely incarceration of the female perpetrator, the null female ﬁndings suggest that policy enhancements are needed to dramatically increase the safety of women in relationships with men.</span>

Second, leaving the abuser causes more harm—deadly force is the safest available option.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Koons</span>(Koons, Judith E. [Associate Professor of Law, Barry University School of Law]. Gunsmoke and Legal Mirrors: Women Surviving Intimate Battery and Deadly Legal Doctrines. Journal of Law and Policy, 2006.)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The unworkability of a retreat rule is manifest when considering the phenomenon of separation assault</span>. Legal scholars have defined <span style="font-size: 12pt;">separation assault</span> as "t<span style="font-size: 12pt;">he attack on the woman's body and volition in which her partner keeps her from leaving, retaliates for the separation, or forces her to return." The concept of separation assault recognizes that patterns of violence, already dramatic, often increase upon a woman's separation from a battering man</span>. According to the Department of Justice, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">seventy-five percent of assaults occur when the abused party is divorced or separated from the abuser. </span>Another study indicates that forty-five percent of murders of women arise out of a man's "rage over the actual or impending estrangement from his partner." <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Women who are separated from their spouses are three times more likely to be attacked</span> than divorced women and twenty-five times more likely to be attacked than married women. Even a limited retreat rule, as had been carved out by the Florida Supreme Court, places women at increased risk of violence. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is at the moment of separation - the first physical move toward separation - that a battering man is prone to become more violent.</span> A decision - or even a threat - to leave can trigger lethal violence. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because domestic violence is marked by power and control, attempting to exit a room may be considered "disobedience," spurring escalated violence</span>. Resistance strategies (such as leaving a room) may force an abuser "to make his coercive power explicit. Any threat, however small, to the abuser's authority within the family is likely to be met with violence."According to one woman, "The best way to avoid [battering] was to show as little reaction as possible ... I didn't dare argue with him or challenge him - for fear of my life actually." <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trying to exit past a raging man may be the final move of a woman seeking only to avoid violence. Killing a battering man may be the safest available alternative.</span>
That link turns deont NCs because a. the victim’s only option is to act in self-defense with deadly force to preserve their moral worth. The abuser loses their moral rights through their controlling abuse which reduces the victim’s agency. Violations of agency are impermissible thus the victim must take lethal action to restore it. B. No other option means deadly force is the only way to convey retribution. Retribution is key to conveying the moral wrong and thus is the only rational action.
===ToC AC=== 
I affirm. The resolution questions the moral permissibility of violent resistance—a victim using violence to retaliate against a violent and controlling partner, or intimate terrorist. Johnson 1 clarifies the topic area:
The critical defining pattern of violent resistance is that the resister is violent but not controlling and is faced with a partner who is both violent and controlling; i.e, he is an intimate terrorist. Violence in the face of intimate terrorist. Violence in the face of intimate terrorism may arise[s] from any of a variety of motives. She may (at least at first) believe [the belief] that she can defend herself, that her violent resistance will keep him from attacking her further. That may mean that she thinks she can stop him right now, in the midst of an attack, or it may mean that she thinks that if she fights back often enough he will eventually decide to stop attacking her physically. Even if she doesn’t think she can stop him, she may feel that he shouldn’t be allowed to attack her without getting hurt some himself. This desire to hurt him in return even if it won’t stop him can be a form of communication (“What you’re doing isn’t right and I’m going to fight back as hard as I can”), or it may be a form of retaliation or payback, along the lines of “He’s not going to do that without paying some price for it.” In a few cases, she may be after serious retaliation, attacking him when he is least expecting it and doing her best to do serious damage, even killing him.
Cases of mutual domestic violence are not topical because there is no clearly identifiable victim. Johnson 2:
Johnson (1999, 2000a) identified a couple pattern in which both husband and wife are controlling and violent, in a situation that could be viewed as two intimate terrorists battling for control. The pattern seems to be rare and we know little about it, but it raises questions again about the importance of distinctions. Until recently the literature on mutual violence was either framed in terms of “self-defense” or “mutual combat,” (Saunders, 1988), but the little we do know about VR, MVC, and mutual violence in CCV suggests a need for much more focused research on what it means when both partners in a relationship are violent.
At best, it would just prove that there might be multiple victims within a relationship that may use deadly force if I win my offense.
Next, Kagan defines moral permissibility
(Kagan, Shelley [Professor of Philosophy at Yale University]. The Limits of Morality (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1989), pp. 65-66. 1989.)
For a given reaction to be morally required is for it to be supported by a morally decisive reason. Along similar lines, we can say that a given reaction is morally forbidden if and only if there is a morally decisive reason for not reacting in that way. Furthermore, if we make the plausible assumption that an action is permitted provided that it is not forbidden, [so] we can say that a[n] given reaction is morally permitted if and only if there is no morally decisive reason for not reacting in the given way. Note that on this account what makes a reaction permitted is the absence of a certain kind of reason—i.e., the absence of a morally decisive reason for not reacting in that way. Thus a reaction’s being permitted does not entail that there is any sort of reason at all which supports reacting in that way. It is not the presence of a ‘morally adequate’ reason which grounds permission; rather, it is the absence of a reason sufficient to ground a prohibition.
Thus, skep affirms. An action is morally permissible if there are no morally decisive reasons against it; skepticism implies the non-existence of morally decisive reasons, so there could be no prohibition against deadly force.
I value morality. Meta-ethics claims that the question “what is right?” can only be answered in a constrained number of ways, and thus limits which kinds of arguments count as warrants for the standard. A meta-ethical constraint on all moral theories is that it must deal with the relation of being able to justify our conduct to each other.
First, this conception of morality flows directly from the nature of value. Nagel 1:
The central claim is that the motivational source of morality is something quite different from the impartial universal benevolence most naturally expressed by a utilitarian system—a system whose ultimate standard is the maximization of overall, aggregate well-being. In fact he sets himself against the natural but simplistic idea that well-being is the domin ant value or that any other measure of the good, conceived as an end to be promoted by everyone, is the basic form of value. Value takes many forms other than that of something to be promoted or maximized. One would not, he observes, show an appreciation for the value of friendship by betraying one friend in order to make several new ones. Morality[’s], too, is not identiﬁed with promoting the good—human happiness, for example. Its motivating aim, according to Scanlon, is a certain kind of relation with our fellow human beings, the relation of being able to justify our conduct to each other, as individuals, in what he describes as a form of “codeliberation.” That is how we show our appreciation of the distinctive value of persons—not by promoting a collective human good in which the interests of a minority may be out-weighed by the greater aggregate interests of a majority.
Second, only moral theories based in justifiability to other persons recognize that there is no universal moral point of view by accounting for individual reasons.
Nagel 2 explains:
In the pursuit of this goal, however, even at its most successful, something will inevitably be lost. If we try to understand experience from an objective viewpoint that is distinct from that of subject of the experience, then even if we continue to credit its perspectivial nature, we will not be able to grasp its most specific qualities unless we can imagine them subjectively. We will not know exactly how scrambled eggs taste to a cockroach even if we develop a detailed objective phenomenology of the cockroach sense of taste. When it comes to values, goals, and forms of life, the gulf may be even more profound. Since this is so, no objective conception of the mental world can include it all. But in that case it may be asked what the point is of looking for such a conception. The aim was to place perspective and their contents in a world seen from no particular point of view. It turns out that some aspects of those perspectives cannot be fully understood in terms of an objective concept of mind. But if some aspects of reality can’t be captured in an objective conception, why not forget the ambition of capturing as much of it as possible? The world just isn’t the world as it appears to one highly abstracted point of view that can be pursued by all rational beings. And if one can’t have complete objectivity, the goal of capturing as much of reality as one can in an objective net is pointless and unmotivated. I don’t think this follows. The pursuit of a conception of the world that doesn’t put us at the center is an expression of philosophical realism, all the more so if it does not assume that everything real can be reached by such a conception. Reality is not just objective reality, and any objective conception of reality must include an acknowledg[e]ment of its own incompleteness. (This is an important qualification to the claims of objectivity in other areas as well.) Even if an objective general conception of mind were developed and added to the physical conception of objectivity, it would have to include the qualification that the exact character of each of the experimental and intentional perspectives with which it deals can be understood only from within or by subjective imagination. A being with total imaginative power could understand it all from inside, but an ordinary being using an objective concept of mind will not. In saying this we have not given up the idea of the way the world really is, independently of how it appears to us or to any particular occupant of it. We have only given up the idea that this coincides with what can be objectively understood. The way the world is includes appearances, and there is no single point of view from which they can all be fully grasped. An objective conception of mind acknowledges that the features of our own minds that cannot be objectively grasped are examples of a more general subjectivity, of which other examples lie beyond our subjective grasp as well.
Third, questions of how one ought to treat others cannot be answered without regard for others’ reasons. Moral theories not based in justifiability to all rational beings collapse into ethical egoism. Gert writes:
The dominant philosophical view of morality now, and perhaps as far back as Socrates, seems to be that morality functions primarily as a guide for the individual person who adopts it. But hardly anyone denies that morality must be such that a person who adopts it must also propose its adoption by everyone. Thus many philosophers have tried to show that the guide to conduct that they were adopting for themselves they would propose to be adopted by all rational persons. This view of morality is sometimes put forward by saying that any guide about how everyone ought to act is a moral guide, as if the precept that everyone ought to brush his teeth twice a day is part of a moral guide.
The extreme oddity of the view of morality as a guide that everyone would adopt for themselves is shown by the discussion of what is known as “ethical egoism.” Ethical egoism is the position that every person ought to maximize their own self-interest. When morality is regarded primarily as a guide for the individual person who adopts it, ethical egoism, if sufficiently enlightened, becomes a plausible moral guide. This extremely odd view is reinforced by noting that it is a view about what every person “ought” to do, thus clearly confirming that it is a moral guide.
Thus, a necessary consequence of denying my meta-ethical framework is ethical egoism, as the alternative meta-ethical view implies that morality functions only as a guide for the individual who adopts it. If ethical egoism is true, you affirm because ethical egoism permits the victim to act without regard for the interests of others.
Thus, since the nature of morality’s demands involves justification between persons, my standard is consistency with contractualism, which has the following guiding principle, defined by Scanlon 1:
An act is wrong if its performance under the circumstances would be disallowed by any set of principles for the general regulation of behavior that no one could reasonably reject as a basis for informed, unforced, general agreement.”
No actual contract is formed—only an imaginary agreement by reasonable persons motivated by desire for such an agreement. This tests principles of conduct by their hypothetical acceptability from all points of view. Nagel 3 defines reasonable rejection:
The nerve of Scanlon’s position is that reasonable grounds for rejecting a principle come from the points of view of distinct individuals rather than from any collective or impersonal point of view. Utilitarianism would require us to accept principles that maximize the expected sum of human well-being, and reject those that do not, because the point of view from which acceptance or rejection is determined is that of impartial benevolence toward all. Scanlon, by contrast, believes one could reasonably reject certain principles that would maximize total well-being in favor of other principles that would produce a lower expected total but that have other virtues—they are less unfair, they do not impose such severe burdens on anyone, or they do not require the abandonment of important values not reducible to well-being. The reasonableness of an individual’s rejection of a principle depends on his taking the points of view of other individuals into account, but it does not depend on conformity to the verdict of an external point of view that is not that of any individual.
Contractualism is the only framework consistent with the aforementioned meta-ethical principle.
First, Contractaualism determines the morality of an action based on how it would hypothetically impact others. The desire for self-protection and protection of others becomes one in the same.
Ashford agrees:
In order to reasonably reject a principle, I must have some objection to it. This objection may begin with some direct harm I suffer as a result of the principle. So far, if the harm involved is pain or suffering, contractualism mirrors utilitarianism. However, the fact that a principle impacts negatively on me is not sufficient. To know whether I can reasonably reject the principle, I must also ask how it impacts on others. If a principle imposes a certain burden (b1) on me, but every alternative imposes a greater burden (b2) on someone else, then b1 does not give me a reason to reject the principle. If I am reasonable, then I withdraw my objection when I see that your reason is more pressing. (By contrast, it would make no sense to say that a utilitarian has ‘withdrawn her pain’ because she has noticed that someone else's pain is greater.) So we conclude that the principle imposing b1 on me cannot be reasonably rejected. And we reach this conclusion without having to aggregate anything. In contractualism, individuals are motivated both by self-regard and by respect for others. Since each person is partly motivated by concern for her own interests, contractualism can ground consequentialist reasons. Part of what we owe others is to promote their interests. Contractualism can therefore accommodate important consequentialist aspects of the structure of moral thought.
Second, contractualism incorporates individual subjective perspectives into an objective morality and ensures that individual reasons are given weight. Scanlon 2 writes:
We cannot respond to all the reasons that every human creature has for wanting his or her life to go well; so we must select among [them] these reasons; and we should do this in a way that recognizes the capacity of human beings, as rational creatures, to assess reasons and to govern their lives according to this assessment. In my view the best response to these two considerations is this: respecting the value of human (rational) life requires us to treat rational creatures only in ways that would be allowed by principles that they could not reasonably reject insofar as they, too, were seeking [such] principles of mutual governance which other rational creatures could not reasonably reject. This responds to the problem of select[s]ing among reasons in a way that recognizes our distinctive capacities as reason-assessing, self-governing creatures.
Thus, contractualism accounts for the source of morality as an interpersonal undertaking—it accounts for the need to justify individual reasons to others by generating rules based on reasonable cooperation between persons.
I contend that the victim could reasonably reject a principle that denied the right to deadly force in cases of repeated violence. First, victims face a choice between killing or a fate worse than death.
Cooley 10 Dr. Dennis Cooley, Associate Director of the Northern Plains Ethics Institute and Associate Professor of Philosophy and Ethics at North Dakota State University. Ph.D. in Philosophy from the University of Rochester, with an emphasis on theoretical ethics. "Why Historical Lying and Deceiving are Morally Wrong." NPEI Publications. 2010.
Given the ultimate universal purpose of a life worth living, not all goals will have equal moral value. The difference between good and bad goals is how well they serve the purpose of achieving a sufficiently valuable life for the individual or others. If a goal decreases value with inadequate benefit, then it is bad. For example, pursuing great wealth for its own sake unnecessarily harms the individual or others. Wealth is a means to good ends and not an end in itself. By pursuing it for its own sake, truly valuable things are disvalued or unrecognized. A goal is good, on the other hand, if it increases life’s value without causing too many negative consequences. Having nurturing relationships, for example, not only makes life better for the individual, it helps others as well. Moreover, pursuing these good goals will benefit individuals because their lives are more valuable, without creating unnecessary harm.11 Spousal abuse is always a bad end or means to a good end. Abuse is either a wrongful exercise of power over someone or it wrongfully withholds from her something which is her due.12 The aggression tends to gain and maintain[s] control over the partner thereby rendering the victim less able to pursue her good life.13 By choosing to be an abuser of innocent people, the agent makes his life less valuable. At the same time, since the maltreatment and degradation interfere with the abused’s ability to fulfill the general to specific goals she is entitled to qua moral agent, including care and security, then by definition, her life is less valuable than it otherwise would have been. Moreover, abuse always disrespects the individual abused. She is treated as a mere means rather than as an end in herself. If the abuse is too severe, it could render[s] the lives of [the] both abused and abuser not worth living. The general definition of abuse is not as clear as required to identify all instances of the spousal variety and make justified ethical decisions. Obviously, the individuals involved in the action must be married, and there has to be violence of some sort directed toward at least one married partner from the other. Regardless of particular nuances, an adequate definition would have to take into account three features: the effects on the victim; the frequency of the acts; and the many subtle and obvious manifestations.14 Daniel Jay Sonkin correctly claims that each allegedly abusive act must be examined in relation to the consequences for the person affected by the act.15 But abuse involves more than mere consequences. Continuous disrespect of an individual can constitute abuse because the abused is not being treated as she should be, i.e. as intrinsically valuable. The abuser exhibits a pattern of not recognizing the other’s value as an autonomous, moral agent. As will be shown below, the devaluation causes the abuser to intentionally give false information that prevents the individual from exercising her autonomy in decision making central to her personal identity.
And, victims of repeated abuse often have no other options—they must use deadly force or fall victim to it.
Wright (Nancy, Law prof at Santa Clara Law School, “Voice for the Voiceless: The Case for Adopting the "Domestic Abuse Syndrome" for Self Defene Purposes for All Victims of Domestic Violence Who Kill Their Abusers”, Criminal Law Brief, Volume 4, 2009)
The women and children who are domestically abused by their spouses or parents are among the most marginalized members of American society, trapped in abusive relationships from which they can see [with] no escape. They are often trapped by their abusers, who isolate them from family and friends who might otherwise provide them with assistance and support in leaving. They are frequently trapped by poverty, making retreat from the abusive situation a financial impossibility. And they are virtually always trapped by the unremitting violence, which not only batters them physically but emotionally as well, making leaving the abusive situation a psychologically unrealistic option. Faced with the inevitable prospect of escalating physical violence, often accompanied by sexual and psvchological abuse, some of these women and children decide that the only escape from their imprisonment is to kill their abusers.
No one could reasonably reject an agent’s right to use force in a last-resort situation.
Scanlon 3 (“Thomson on Self-Defense.” TM Scanlon. Chapter 10 of “Visual Attention and Cortical Circuits.” 2001 MIT Press.)
Turning, then, to self-defense, we begin with the fact that it would be reasonable to reject any principle that left agents free (even in the absence of any special justiﬁcation) to act in ways that could reasonably be foreseen to cause other people serious injury or death by the impact on their bodies of the agents’ bodies or of machinery that the agents control (such as guns, knives, automobiles, trolleys, etc.). We all have strong reasons to want to avoid serious injury or death, and thus have good grounds for reasonably rejecting such a principle. The next question is whether a principle forbidding all conduct that can reasonably be foreseen to cause serious injury or death in these ways could also be reasonably rejected. This principle would be supported by the strong reason just mentioned. But there are also good reasons to reject such a broad prohibition, since we also can have strong reasons to behave in ways that it would forbid. Indeed the reason just mentioned might be cited here, since circumstances can arise in which we can avoid serious injury or death only by behaving in ways that can be foreseen to lead to the injury or death of others in the ways that this principle would forbid.
And, individuals can only reasonably reject a principle if they couldn’t have avoided its undesirable effects.
Scanlon 4 (“Thomson on Self-Defense.” TM Scanlon. Chapter 10 of “Visual Attention and Cortical Circuits.” 2001 MIT Press.)
Consider ﬁrst the role of choice. According to contractualism, the role of choice in the formulation and justiﬁcation of principles of the kind we are considering is as a factor that reduces or eliminates a person’s reasonable objection to a principle. 5 To illustrate this, suppose P is a principle that would allow others to do something that could affect me in a way that I have reason not to want. Consider two possibilities. The ﬁrst is that if people do what P allows then I will certainly be affected in this undesirable way. The second is that if they do what P allows I will be affected in this way unless I take evasive action by doing X, where X is something that I could do quite easily and without sacriﬁcing anything important. I take it as obvious that my grounds for rejecting P are weaker in the second case than in the ﬁrst. It does not follow, of course, that even in the second case P is not reasonably rejectable. If other people have no strong reason for wanting to be able to behave in the way P allows, then I may have good reason to reject P in both cases. Why should I have to be alert to the possibility that I might need to do X to avoid the objectionable effects of their behavior, if they have no good reason to want to be able to engage in it? But if they do have good reason for wanting to do this, then it may well be that I could reasonably reject a principle permitting it if I could not avoid the effects in question, but not if I could easily avoid these effects by doing X.
Aggressors, however, can easily avoid putting themselves in a situation where self-defense could be used against them by merely not aggressing in the first place.
Scanlon 5 (“Thomson on Self-Defense.” TM Scanlon. Chapter 10 of “Visual Attention and Cortical Circuits.” 2001 MIT Press.)
When we speak of self-defense, the cases that are most likely to come to mind are ones like Villainous Aggressor, and the fact that it would not be reasonable to reject principles permitting the use of force in such cases is adequately explained along the lines I have been discussing. The grounds that someone in the aggressor’s position would have for rejecting such a principle are undermined both by the fact that such a person can avoid being vulnerable to the legitimate use of force by simply refraining from aggression, and by the fact that in so doing he or she would not be making any sacriﬁce that has weight in moral argument.
Thus, the victim could reasonably reject a principle denying the right to use deadly force in cases of repeated domestic abuse because the abuser’s claim to avoiding death should hold little weight in the contractualist apparatus relative to the victim’s suffering.
Even if the abuser’s claim to rejection matters ceteris paribus, the victim’s claim is still stronger. Although the abusers may die, the repeated abuse suffered by victims is worse than death. Psychological violence increases likelihood of suicide and numerous other mental health problems, proving that the victims find their life meaningless.
Pico Alfonso et al 06—(The Impact of Physical, Pyschological, and Sexual Intimate Male Partner Violence on Women’s Mental Health: Depressive Symptoms, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, State Anxiety, and Suicide, Maria A. Pico-Alfonso B.A. et al, Department of Pyschology University of Valencia, Spain, 2006)
Our results agree with previous studies that indicate that IPV (Intimate Partner Violence) has a negative effect on women’s mental health, increasing the incidence of depressive, PTSD, and state anxiety symptomatology, as well as thoughts and attempts of suicide. However, as most previous studies have mainly paid attention to physical IPV, with few studies obtaining information about the concomitance of psychological or sexual violence 12–20 or the impact of psychological violence alone, 21,22 one of the main findings of this study has been to demonstrate that psychological IPV alone is as detrimental to women’s mental health as physical IPV, which almost always involves some form of psychological violence. Furthermore, for both depressive and anxiety symptomatology, psychological IPV was an independent and stronger predictor than physical IPV, and it was the only factor contributing to both PTSD and the comorbidity between depressive and PTSD symptomatology. Thus, our results agree with those obtained in previous studies that have assessed the independent contribution of psychological IPV to depression 16,22 and PTSD. 15 It disagrees with the study of Basile et al., 17 however, in which both physical and psychological IPV contributed to PTSD symptoms, possibly due to the characteristics of their sample, which was part of a national survey. Importantly, in our study, no differences were found between women exposed to physical/psychological IPV and those exposed only to psychological IPV. Altogether, these results are very important, as psychological IPV is normally still considered a minor type of violence and, consequently, receives less attention than physical IPV by clinicians, lawyers, policymakers, and researchers. 21,63 Thus, being exposed to psychological IPV alone can no longer be considered a minor type of IPV when assessing and recognizing the impact of IPV on women’s mental health. This study indicates that the concomitance of sexual violence with both physical/psychological and psychological IPV increases the severity of depressive symptoms, although it increases the incidence of suicide attempts only when it is concomitant with physical/psychological IPV. These results agree with the study of Wingood et al., 18 which showed that the concomitance of sexual IPV with physical IPV increased the likelihood of using drugs and attempting suicide in women. In our study, however, sexual IPV was not an independent predictor in the contribution of IPV to either depressive, anxiety, and PTSD symptomatology or suicidality, which agrees with the study of Basile et al. 17 with regard to PTSD but disagrees with the study of Bennice et al., 19 in which sexual IPV was an important independent contributor to severity of PTSD symptomatology. Thus, although the concomitance of sexual IPV has an impact on the deterioration of women’s mental health, its independent contribution after controlling for other forms of IPV has been difficult to prove.
Prefer the study, results were controlled by comparison with non-abused women and it is a review of the lit. Also, turns deont NCs, psychological impacts nullify any claims of agency. The victim’s state of agency is under such duress that all actions to rectify the situation are permissible. Morality can’t prescribe that an individual take an action that would violate their own [agency, autonomy, or rationality] because that capacity is what makes them moral subjects. 2 Impacts 1. Morality becomes non-functional because one loses the attribute that makes them follow normative guidelines 2. Creates a contradictory maxim, the only reason we follow maxims is because of our agency so willing violations of one’s agency is a contradiction. That will be the 1nc’s warrant for offense.
As an underview,
Util affirms—The impacts to domestic violence are horrific and experienced by 1.3 million women.
NCADV 07 (“Domestic Violence Facts.” National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. Every Home a Safe Home. NCADV Public Policy Office, Washington D.C. July 2007.”)
Domestic violence is the willful intimidation, physical assault, battery, sexual assault, and/or other abusive behavior perpetrated by an intimate partner against another. It is an epidemic affecting individuals in every community, regardless of age, economic status, race, religion, nationality or educational background. Violence against women [It] is often accompanied by emotionally abusive and controlling behavior, and thus is part of a systematic pattern of dominance and control. Domestic violence [It] results in physical injury, psychological trauma, and sometimes death. The consequences of domestic violence can cross generations and truly last a lifetime. One in every four women will experience domestic violence in her lifetime. 1 An estimated 1.3 million women are victims of physical assault by an intimate partner each year. 2 85% of domestic violence victims are women. 3 Historically, females have been most often victimized by someone they knew. 4 Females who are 20-24 years of age are at the greatest risk of nonfatal intimate partner violence. 5 Most cases of domestic violence are never reported to the police. 6 Witnessing violence between one’s parents or caretakers is the strongest risk factor of transmitting violent behavior from one generation to the next. 7 Boys who witness domestic violence are twice as likely to abuse their own partners and children when they become adults. 8 30% to 60% of perpetrators of intimate partner violence also abuse children in the household. 9 One in 6 women and 1 in 33 men have experienced an attempted or completed rape. 10 Nearly 7.8 million women have been raped by an intimate partner at some point in their lives. 11 Sexual assault or forced sex occurs in approximately 40-45% of battering relationships. 12 1 in 12 women and 1 in 45 men have been stalked in their lifetime. 13 81% of women stalked by a current or former intimate partner are also physically assaulted by that partner; 31% are also sexually assaulted by that partner. 13 Almost one-third of female homicide victims that are reported in police records are killed by an intimate partner. 14 In 70-80% of intimate partner homicides, no matter which partner was killed, the man physically abused the woman before the murder. 12 Less than one-fifth of victims reporting an injury from intimate partner violence sought medical treatment following the injury. 15 Intimate partner violence results in more than 18.5 million mental health care visits each year. 16 The cost of intimate partner violence exceeds $5.8 billion each year, $4.1 billion of which is for direct medical and mental health services. 17 Victims of intimate partner violence lost almost 8 million days of paid work because of the violence perpetrated against them by current or former husbands, boyfriends and dates. This loss is the equivalent of more than 32,000 full-time jobs and almost 5.6 million days of household productivity as a result of violence. 17 There are 16,800 homicides and $2.2 million (medically treated) injuries due to intimate partner violence annually, which costs $37 billion. 18 Domestic violence is one of the most chronically underreported crimes. 20 Only approximately one-quarter of all physical assaults, one-fifth of all rapes, and one-half of all stalkings perpetuated against females by intimate partners are reported to the police. 1 Approximately 20% of the 1.5 million people who experience intimate partner violence annually obtain civil protection orders. 1 Approximately one-half of the orders obtained by women against intimate partners who physically assaulted them were violated. 1 More than two-thirds of the restraining orders against intimate partners who raped or stalked the victim were violated.
Deontology affirms—Only by resisting aggression can respect one’s own rationality.
Barbara Herman “MURDER AND MAYHEM: VIOLENCE AND KANTIAN CASUISTRY” The Monist, Vol. 72, No. 3, Kant's Practical Philosophy (JULY 1989), pp. 411-431.
This same fact blocks reciprocity of complaint. The aggressor acts on a maxim that involves the devaluation of my agency. I do not. I am not acting to save my life (as such), but to resist the use of my agency (self) by another. Acting to save my life (as something valuable to me) would be to act for just another purpose. The moral standing of my agency-what makes it the source of reasons for others to refrain from acting against me-is not the good (to me) of being alive. Acting to sustain the integrity of my agency is to act for a morally necessary end. Thus, since my maxim of resistance is not a maxim of aggression as a means, the original aggressor cannot renew his attack on morally superior grounds. I am not acting to preserve myself through violent means. In stopping aggression with force I am asserting my status as a rational agent. It is an act of self-respect.
And, to treat oneself as an end requires defending oneself from aggression. Being an end allows us to dispose of our contingent ends like our occupation or hobbies, but not of our person. Thus, being an end permits one to protect oneself against aggressors. The justification is not to save my own life, but to resist the misuse of my life as the life of a rational agent. Generic deontological arguments against killing apply only to maxims of convenience killing, in which we kill for the intent of achieving some self-interested end. Because the intent of deadly force in response to repeated domestic violence is to protect oneself, arguments about victims using aggressors as mere means do not apply. Functions as a link turn and severs the link to their offense.




=== === 
==Negative== 
===MBA Rnd 2 v. PV DT=== 
**Topicality**
INTERPRETATION: Domestic violence is physical violence or abuse.
Princeton Word Net (large lexical database of English from Princeton University)
Domestic violence (violence or physical abuse directed toward your spouse or domestic partner or other members of a household)
VIOLATION:

STANDAR DS:
LIMITS
1. They explode limits—the term “domestic violence” is a subset of “domestic abuse”
Rohrbaugh (Joanna Bunker Rohrbaugh, Ph.D., clinical psychologist specializing in both trauma and gender issues, faculty of the Harvard Medical School, senior supervisor for the Victims of Violence and other outpatient programs at the Cambridge Hospital, author of one of the classic textbooks on the Psychology of Women, Family Court Review, Domestic Violence in Same Gender Relationships, 2006, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/doi/10.1111/j.1744-1617.2006.00086.x/full)
It is essential to examine the intent or… conflict with violence which is often mutual

**BLOCKS TO AC**
1. Subjectivity always requires objectivity—We need a criterion external to the agent’s desires in order to judge the moral permissibility of an action
Ben Moshe “The Scope and Limits of Ethical Constitutivism.” Nir Ben-Moshe. UChicago.
Using this conception of a drive,… limited scope of our agency.

2. Permitting agents to do whatever they subjectively think is justified is flawed because it makes necessary moral rules optional—even if the question of self-defense should be answered subjectively, they set a bad moral precedent.
Kastafanas Paul Katstafanas [Boston University], “Deriving Ethics from Action: A Nietzschean Version of Constitutivism,” Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, 2011
Internalism provides a straightforward… us as [is] implausible.


In order to be consistent with the subjectivity of the agent, the resolution must be in the agent’s future well-being.
Parfit (Derek Parfit, On What Matters, I don’t think I really need to write down his quals but if you ask I’ll rant for you, Volume 1)
Subjectivists and Objectivists… worth having or achieving.

But, victims who use deadly force end up in jail, which harms their future well-being.
Callahan provides the impact (Renee Callahan-1994[Washing College of Law] “Will the Real Battered Woman Please stand up? In Search of a realistic legal definition of battered woman syndrome”)
For the overwhelming majority of… to restrict and control inmate behavior.”

**NC**
Moral arguments must flow from absolute reason. Any non-reason based framework is circular. C.S. Lewis explains:
But the very attempt is absurd…. getting inside again.

===Lesbian K=== 
1NC
A. Link—The discourse of domestic violence discourse reifies a heteronormative relationship between a female victim and male abuser that logic marginalizes other battered women. Lesbians, and others, who do not fit the husband-wife abuse story are ignored because they are not “proper victims.”
Waters 1—(Mikel L. Waters, Invisible at Every Turn an Examination of Lesbian Intimate Partner Violence, Georgia State University, 2009)
Domestic violence is an issue which has caught the attention of our society for decades. It was not until the 1970‘s feminist movement; however, that domestic violence came to be recognized as a social problem. Services for victims of domestic violence were initially developed by local groups of concerned citizens and focused primarily on the needs of white, middle-class women (Schecter, 1982). Countless articles, books and training manuals have been written about the issue of violence against women. This phenomenon has survived several bouts of labeling, going from ―wife abuse‖ to ―battered woman‖ to ―victim‖ then ―survivor of domestic violence‖ and now ―survivor of intimate partner violence.‖ Regardless of the popular name at the time, intimate partner violence continues to negatively impact individuals, families, communities and society as a whole. Thus, intimate partner violence is worthy of study and in need of our continued scholarly attention (Loseke 1992). While we have described the problem in detail, we still lack viable solutions. The idea of husbands battering wives (men battering women) emerged in the mid-1970‘s as a social problem. The second wave of the feminist movement and the push for equal rights between the sexes brought attention to this issue. Abuse was viewed as so pervasive that it warranted public concern and attention in order be rectified. The feminists of this time singlehandedly brought intimate partner violence from a private issue behind closed doors to the forefront of the public eye. It could no longer be dismissed as a private matter between a man and his wife (Loseke 1992). The past twenty-five years have seen a flurry of activity in both the activist and academic realms surrounding domestic violence. Feminist activists‘ and theorists‘ primary goals have been to bring domestic violence to the public‘s attention (Bograd 1999). They focused primarily on white, middle-class heterosexual women. Unfortunately, this marginalized other women, such as lesbian women or women of color, who did not fit neatly into this identity (Donnelly, Cook and Wilson 2005; Sokoloff and Dupont 2005). A popular view in the feminist movement is echoed by Bograd who states, ―I privileged the dimension of gender over others because it seemed to offer parsimonious explanatory power and clinical direction. I believed that gender-sensitive models of violence were universal, relevant to all families and thus race-, class- and sexual orientation neutral‖ (Bograd 1999:276). Other social contexts outside of gender- including race, class, and sexual orientation- were thought of as stressors and were not seen as having explanatory power (Bograd 1999). This set the stage for the exclusion of battered women who did not fit the feminist conception of the ―proper‖ victim.
Also, the resolution links – the “domestic violence” wording of the topic is just a regurgitation of social constructions that exclude lesbian intimate partner violence

B. The link is two fold first, the aff’s reliance on the male abuses female story reifies the idea that violence is a solely hetero problem. Second, their ignorance of lesbians unique situation a la “outing” is sufficient to trigger the link.
Waters 2—(Mikel L. Waters, Invisible at Every Turn an Examination of Lesbian Intimate Partner Violence, Georgia State University, 2009)
In order to lay a strong foundation for this research, a more precise discussion of the types of abuse included under the rubric of LIPV is warranted. As stated previously, abuses in (Lesbian Intimate Partner Violence) LIPV include physical, verbal, emotional, economic, and sexual (Poorman 2001). Physical abuse can include acts of physical aggression not limited to slapping, hitting, shoving, grabbing, and/or throwing. Physical abuse also includes intentional deprivation of physical necessities such as water, food, shelter or sleep. The most common forms of physical violence in lesbian intimate partner violence are pushing/shoving, hitting with open hand or fist, and hits or scratches to the face, genitals or breasts (Poorman 2001). While reports of violent incidents of stabbing, shooting, or having a gun or knife inserted in the vagina are indeed rare, they do occur (Poorman 2001). Scholars agree that when compared with heterosexual IPV, lesbian IPV incidents have higher frequencies of verbal, emotional or psychological abuse than physical abuse (Renzetti 1992). The most common forms of verbal, emotional or psychological abuse include verbal threats, such as being demeaned in front of friends, family or strangers. Other common forms of mental abuse include disruption of eating and sleeping patterns and abuse of others in the household, such as children or pets (Poorman 2001). In addition, lesbian IPV has a unique element that is not an issue in heterosexual violence. This is the fear of and/or the act of outing. Lesbian batterers, similar to gay male batterers, sometimes use their partners‘ sexuality as an element of control. They threaten to or do tell their partners‘ families, friends, place of employment, and ex-spouses as a way to exercise power and control (Renzetti 1992). Outing has brutal, real life consequences ranging from losing 10 10 the support of family and friends to being fired from a job or losing custody of one‘s children (Renzetti 1992; Poorman 2001). No matter the level or type of abuse, lesbian batterers, like all batterers, have the distinct ability to tailor their abuse to their intimate partners‘ vulnerabilities (Renzetti 1992). Domestic violence occurring in non-heterosexual relationships has received little attention. The two primary reasons are widespread homophobia/heterosexism and the belief that women are not aggressive and do not batter other women (Rezentti 1992). Due to research regarding the rate at which this violence occurs, academic and activist attention surrounding LIPV is increasing. Although awareness is growing, a significant number of lesbians continue to suffer at the hands of their female batterers. The status of lesbians in our society and the institutional discrimination which continues to occur make it difficult for researchers to obtain accurate current data in regards to this population. Needless to say there is no local, state or national lesbian registry. While there is no statistical consensus regarding the rate at which LIPV occurs, it is thought that LIPV occurrences are comparable to the rates of opposite sex domestic violence (OSDV). A recent study indicates that between 41% and 68% of all lesbians may have experienced some kind of domestic violence in their intimate relationships (Burke, Jordan and Owen 2002; National Coalition of AntiViolence Programs 2002; Waldner-Haugrud, Vaden Gratch and Magruder 1997). Others estimate from 7% to 48% of same sex survivors experience physical abuse and as high as 90% experience verbal abuse (Burke and Follingstad1999; Balsam 2001). In several studies on lesbian sexual assault the rates range from 5% to 57% (Brand and Kidd 1986; Loulan 1988

C. Impact—Lesbian survivors of domestic violence are not seen as “real victims” because society’s heternormative tendencies are pervasive. This places the lesbian victim at continued risk.
Waters 3—(Mikel L. Waters, Invisible at Every Turn an Examination of Lesbian Intimate Partner Violence, Georgia State University, 2009)
It is unlikely that survivors of lesbian IPV will seek support from shelters because they see shelters as the province of heterosexual women (Helfrich and Simpson 2005). Survivors of lesbian IPV are more likely to consult friends, family or a therapist (Giorgio 2002, Girshick 2002). Domestic violence services are often seen as unavailable or severely limited to survivors whose batterer are female, due to homophobia, social constructions of ―appropriate‖ battered woman and exclusivity. Traditionally, survivors of domestic violence have been heterosexual women mostly with children, who have experienced physical abuse at the hands of their husband or boyfriend. Loseke deemed these women as ―real battered women. Survivors whose circumstances differ or who have different experiences have not been viewed as battered women by shelter advocates (Loseke 1992; Simpson and Helfrich 2005; VanNatta 2005; Helfrich and Simpson 2006). Homophobia Seidman (2003) defines homophobia as a systemic crisis privileging the heteronormative nature of our society by foundationally establishing that heterosexuality is the assumed social norm to which all other sexualities are compared. While sexuality is seen as a continuum on which heterosexuality and homosexuality are both terminal ends, heterosexuality is hierarchally privileged over homosexuality to such extent that social structures, laws and norms are constructed to value heterosexuality above all others (Bograd 1999). Lesbian battering occurs in the larger context of homophobia which affects women personally, socially and systematically. As Pharr (1986) explains: There is an important difference between the battered lesbian and the battered nonlesbian: the battered non-lesbian experiences violence within the context of a misogynist world: the lesbian experiences violence within the context of a world that is not only woman-hating, but is also homophobic (pg 204). The term homophobia was coined by Weinberg (1972) to describe an irrational fear, hatred and intolerance of homosexuality. This term has evolved and is now viewed as more inline with other ―-isms‖ including racism, sexism and classism (Balsam 2001). Some researchers have proposed that ―heterosexism‖ is a more suitable term. Heterosexism as defined by Herek is ―an ideological system that denies, denigrates, and stigmatizes, any non-heterosexual 14 14 form of behavior, [or] identity, relationship and community‖ (2004: 316). For the purpose of this paper, I use the terms heterosexism and homophobia interchangeably. Whether perceived or actual, homophobia and/or heterosexism [is an] are immense barriers for lesbians seeking assistance for domestic violence. Services that are available to traditional victims of domestic violence are not usually available to lesbians. In a study by Renzetti, 64% of lesbian women in abusive relationships stayed in them simply because they ―did not know where, or how, to seek help (1992: 395). Services readily known and available to heterosexual women are not readily known or available to lesbian women including shelters, hotlines, support groups, transitional housing, court advocates, and child specialists (McLaughlin & Rozee, 2001; Balsam 2001). Shelters and DV services are expected to be anti-heterosexist, anti-homophobic, and concerned solely with domestic violence (Donnelly et al.. 1999). Such expectations come from the community, financial supporters, religious institutions and other shelter residence. This, however, is a dangerous assumption. Society at large privileges heterosexuality over homosexuality as right and moral and lesbians as wrong and immoral. DV workers and shelter residents do not escape these socialized messages and often further isolate and alienate battered lesbians who are seeking shelter from violence in their own homes (Girshick 2002). This alienation can include turning away lesbians because the shelter is ―full‖; not distinguishing the primary aggressor from the survivor in a lesbian relationship and discounting the lesbian survivor‘s experience of abuse as not ―real‖ abuse. All of these place women at risk. Unsurprisingly, while heterosexupality is pervasive in society, it is also the foundational construction of the domestic violence movement and the assumed sexuality of all survivors. This assumption is evident in the initial contact from the survivor. Shelter workers often ask for 15 15 the survivor to reveal the identity of her abuser. If the survivor is heterosexual, the batterer will most likely be male and the survivor seamlessly transitions into the appropriately constructed domestic violence model and has all available services and programs offered to her. If the survivor is lesbian, this simple request to disclose the batterer‘s identity places the lesbian survivor in a precarious situation at the very site where a promise of protection is supposed to exist. Such a situation [it] immediately forces the survivor to make a decision: to out herself, to evade the question, or to lie (VanNatta 2005). Either of these decision results in a zero sum game. If she lies or evades the question, then she binds her own hands and has to hide in plain sight. She also runs the risk of being discovered if she slips up or does not lie well enough. If she outs herself, she runs the risk of not receiving the shelter and safety so desperately needed and of enduring the homophobia of other survivors within the shelter.
Outweighs their offense [immanency is worse for lesbians because of] A. Homophobia—so called traditional victims deal with exclusively misogynism as the cultural barrier, whereas lesbian victims experience both. B. Non-ideological barriers—the sources that traditional victims can’t access are structurally sealed off for lesbians. While there is always the potential for non-lesbian women to somehow flee to gain assistance, even if lesbian women leave the abuse, they have nowhere to go. C. Fear of outing—lesbian women are more likely to keep the abuse secret to keep their sexuality secret—even if external assistance were an option, acknowledging the abuse requires admitting they are homosexual.
Also, turns case—the aff’s rhetoric decreases options for domestic abuse victims and explains why they don’t work, ignoring the specific ideological and structural barriers that prevent homosexual women from gaining access to the same institutions. The ignorance triggers the impact.

D. Alternative Text: Reject the Affirmative’s discursive constructions of domestic violence to recognize the individual validity of lesbian intimate partner violence to establish awareness and a community for survivors. Acknowledging lesbian non-physical abuse is part and parcel of the broader domestic violence problem and is the crucial first step to establishing social systems and community networks which would allow survivors to overcome their abuse. This must precede the affirmative to avoid recreating the problems of the AC.
Giordano 10—(Non-Phytsical Forms of Intimate Partner Violence in Lesbian Relationships, Jessica L. Giordano, University of New Orleans, 2010, University of New Orleans Theses and Dissertations)
For purposes of this research, nine survivors reflected on past lesbian relationships they identified as abusive in predominantly non-physical ways. Analysis of transcriptions of their interviews illustrated many similarities to the manner in which the dominant literature described the experience of IPV. These women coped, sought help, and framed their abuse much like the heterosexual female survivors of physical abuse depicted within the literature. Where these women differed from those survivors was not so much the way they experienced abuse but rather [in] the social context in which they experienced it. What was distinctive for these women was that information and support networks within this society have not been developed for survivors who are not heterosexual women experiencing abuse that is predominantly physical. Before a new political movement can begin, we need to create spaces in which conversations occur that acknowledge the existence of IPV outside the parameters of predominantly physical abuse. We need to realize that not only is physical violence an issue that affects all members of society, but non-physical IPV is also a societal issue about which all members of our communities should be educated (Russo 2001). Outlining the parameters of non-physical forms of abuse for those who are not involved in the movement will not be a simple task (Stark 2010). These participants illustrated that physical abuse is easier to identify and discuss. It is not always easy to distinguish between a white lie and manipulation. Was it not, however, only thirty years ago that we were without a language to discuss and a system to respond to physical abuse? When the domestic violence movement first began, it was still socially acceptable for a man to beat his wife to “keep her in line.” Now we have various social systems in place to respond to this behavior. Furthermore, is physical abuse really objective? Is it considered abuse when a man slaps his wife on the hand or when he punches her in the face? Where do we draw the line? Perhaps, it is not as important that society recognizes punching or hitting as abuse but rather that as a result of the efforts of actors in the domestic violence movement society recognizes punching and hitting as signs of something unacceptable: domestic violence. Without a recognized “name for the continuum of strategies that imprison [survivors] in personal life, there can be no community of support or outrage” (Stark 2007: 371). Educating the overall community on the dynamics of all types of abuse will also result in better education of survivors and abusers. Participants in this study came from different cities, had different educational backgrounds, and their social resources varied. However, those with college degrees had no more information about non-physical IPV in queer relationships than did those with only high school degrees or less. These women said they did not reach out for 77 traditional forms of help because they thought their problems to be their own and no one else’s. They did not realize their experiences were part of a larger social problem, as is the case with many survivors (Irwin 2008). Neither did they recognize themselves as members of a larger group composed of all survivors deserving of rights and support. Without a socially recognized category with which they may identify (such as survivors of non-physical forms of intimate partner abuse) survivors, such as those interviewed for this research, remain invisible even to themselves (Stark 2007). Public awareness campaigns such as billboards and ads on social networking sites could help increase awareness and provide survivors, such as these, the language they need to relate their experiences to others.

Discourse Link
Specific Discourse Link—The domestic violence movement creates a dichotomy that perpetuates the mindset that men are the dominant abusers and women are the subservient victims—No other forms of abuse are legitimate. To understand the reality of domestic violence, we must divorce ourselves from this discursive construction.
Waters 4—(Mikel L. Waters, Invisible at Every Turn an Examination of Lesbian Intimate Partner Violence, Georgia State University, 2009)
The domestic violence movement largely constructed a dichotomous fallacy that violence between intimate partners is highly gendered: men are batterers and women are battered. This type of gendered message restricts theoretical images of intimate partner violence (Seelau and Seelau 2005). Socially constructed ―appropriate‖ gender roles reinforce the idea that men are masculine and masculinity equates with dominance. Women are feminine and therefore, weak and vulnerable (Seelau and Seelau 2005). In reality, however, the power and control that is exercised in intimate partner violence is committed by both males and females. Inaccurate social perceptions of gender, however, drive and authenticate the thoughts about who are the appropriate batterer and the appropriately battered. When we divorce women from submission and men from domination, the reality of IPV becomes clearer.
This functions as a link and framework—in order to render accurate determinations on the reality of domestic violence we must first divorce ourselves from their flawed representations, otherwise we risk creating moral inaccuracies that destroy the normative force of morality. So, the NC is a prior question.

Discourse First (Rockridge)
Discourse comes first—it frames our morality [the way we rhetorically frame policies or moral questions expresses our unconscious, which is the source of our morality]
Rockridge Institute 07 (“Frames and Framing,” progressive think tank that uses neuroscience and cognitive linguistics to shape argument form and phrasing for progressive values, former website: rockridge institute.org/aboutus/frames- and-framing/index.html, link is broken so here's the full text of the card)
Expressing progressive political ideas and values effectively begins with understanding frames. Frames are the mental structures that allow human beings to understand reality – and sometimes to create what we take to be reality. Contemporary research on the brain and the mind has shown that most thought – most of what the brain does – is below the level of consciousness, and these unconscious thoughts frame conscious thought in ways that are not obvious. These mental structures, or frames, appear in and operate through the words we use to discuss the world around us, including politics. Frames simultaneously shape our thinking and language at multiple levels – the level of moral values, the level of political principles, the level of issue areas (e.g., the environment), the level of a single issue (e.g., the climate crisis), and the level of specific policy (e.g., cap-and-auction). Successful political arguments depend as much on a well-articulated moral frame as they do on policy details – often more. The most effective political messages are those that clearly and coherently link an issue area, single issue, or specific policy to fundamental moral values and political principle frames. Rockridge is the only progressive think tank that takes such a comprehensive view of framing and messaging. The primary determinant of how someone thinks about politics is what we refer to as their fundamental moral frame or their moral worldview. Progressive politics is about morality, about doing what is right. That moral frame is not always obvious, yet it can be stated simply: Progressives care about people and the earth, and act responsibly on that sense of care. All other progressive values – freedom, fairness, equality, security, opportunity, honesty, community, and all the rest – flow from that basic moral understanding of how people should act in the world. Conservatives have been more effective than progressives at getting their worldview, or moral frame, into public discourse. So effective, that progressives all too often adopt conservative frames – as members of Congress did in adopting the President’s “unitary executive” frame which defined Congress as responsible for carrying out his mission – and thus primarily responsible for the safety of the troops. Congress may argue against the President’s Iraq policy, but when they do so using his words, and thus his fundamental moral frame, they put themselves at a distinct disadvantage. It is nearly impossible to persuasively present a progressive policy using conservative language and frames. The debate on the U.S. response to 9/11 is a great example of how frames work. The phrases “war on terror” and “crimes against humanity” use different words to frame the same issue and, in doing so, evoke different ideas and guide us toward different actions. The phrase “war on terror” frames the issue as an open-ended military action against a vague, indeterminate enemy, with open-ended war powers given to the President for an indefinite period. “Crimes against humanity” frames our response to 9/11 as a police action where international law enforcement agencies are directed to root out groups and individual criminals using many of the same methods effective against crime syndicates. Further, these phrases trigger related moral and political principle frames deep in our unconscious minds, shaping how we experience our relationships to our political leaders and to people in other countries. “War” triggers fundamental moral and political principle frames that evoke an evil world in which we must look to an authoritarian President as commander-in-chief, whose orders we obey in order to protect our entire society from destruction by foreign enemies. With these frames dominating our thinking, we are more likely to tolerate giving up some of our civil liberties and dropping bombs that kill innocent civilians. By contrast, “crimes against humanity,” as both a word and issue frame, triggers deep moral and political principle frames of an interdependent world where dangers occur, but they are not debilitating. With this frame foremost in our minds, we are more likely to protect society by enlisting the police, while also reaching out to our neighbors, who are suffering in other countries where poverty, disease, and opposition make it more likely that people will become terrorists. The persistent repetition of the “war on terror” word and issue frame triggers and reinforces deep moral and political principle frames. So, even when someone opposes the Iraq policy, they often do it by invoking the frame they wish to negate. This is why Americans who want to shift the ideas underlying American political debate – towards a greater emphasis on the values of empathy, social responsibility, fairness, honesty, integrity, and community – must do so by changing the deep moral and political principle frames that we use in thinking. We do this in large part by stating these frames openly and often. In other words, it is nearly impossible to persuasively articulate a law enforcement policy on Iraq when one is continually using the phrase “war on terror.” Frames matter. Our fundamental moral frame, our worldview, determines how we experience and think about every aspect of our lives, from child rearing to healthcare, from public transportation to national security, from religion to love of country. Yet, people are typically unconscious of how their fundamental moral frames shape their political positions. The Rockridge Institute works to make that thinking more explicit in order to improve political debate.

Discourse First (Hill)
Discourse must come first.
Hill (Cheryl Lynn Wofford Hill, "Restating International Jurisprudence in Inclusive Terms: Language as Method in Creating a Hospitable Worldview," 27 Okla. City U.L. Rev. 297, Spring, 2002, LexisNexis)
“Language is a method that has been used to achieve a more inclusive worldview. Many feminists, people who discern that male-centered societies devalue women and create a hostile environment for women by overvaluing the power of men, recognize the importance of thoughts, images, and symbols in creating a worldview. Anne Streaty Wimberly and Edward Powell Wimberly created a workbook to helppeople in the United [*322] Methodist Church realize the importance of language in multicultural relationships. "Language has shaping qualities. We cannot escape the influence of language. Language conveys the images we develop of ourselves. It [and] shapes our relationships with one another. It shapes life stories. Through language we learn about images and expectations of one another." Thoughts, images and symbols are communicated through language. "Language is power, in ways more literal than most people think. When we speak, we exercise the power of language to transform reality." Language [and] converts ideas, images, and symbols into communication. Language itself is largely symbolic, and it is an imperfect way to communicate thought. Languages serve to organize thought and create categories of ideas that can be communicated from one person to another. "Categories are supremely important in controlling the behavior of human beings."

===ToC NC=== 
I value morality. Normativity arises only within a conception of formal principles a la the categorical imperative because those are the principles that guide every agent who intentionally acts. Reath :
To see what this approach to the formula of humanity involves, let me explain what I think formal principles are for Kant. Kant tends to regard the fundamental principles in some domain of cognition or rational activity as formal principles. This is quite clear in his moral philosophy, where he is explicit that the fundamental principle of morality must be a formal principle and that only a formal principle – a principle that determines the will through its form rather than its matter and that prescribes the formal condition of universal law – has the necessity of a practical law. The connection between form and normative necessity is explained if we understand a formal principle [is] as the internal constitutive principle of a domain of cognition or rational activity. It is the principle that defines or describes and makes it possible to engage in that activity, thus the principle that any subject engaged in that activity must follow. So understood, the formal principle of a domain of cognitive activity is uniquely suited to govern[s] it with normative necessity because it is not coherently rejected by anyone engaged in that activity.
The formal principle of making any judgments, including moral judgments, is that our judgments seek to be one with other judgments—hence, not contradictory. Reath 2:
A formal principle of a domain of cognition grows out of and expresses the self-understanding of that activity. It would appear that any kind of rational activity understands itself as having [has] certain features that make it what it is – indeed that it is a formal feature of rational activities that they understand themselves to have a certain form – and that all genuine instances of the activity are normatively guided by this self-understanding. (Rational activity is self-conscious and is guided by its awareness of what it is.) The spontaneity of cognition or rational activity, in part, is that it is normatively guided by this self-understanding (of its own form). In order to make this idea a bit less abstract, let me illustrate with an example taken from Stephen Engstrom (much simplified). Engstrom suggests that it is the mark of judgment that it is ‘self-consciously self-sustaining’. The self-sustaining component is that a judgment understands itself to make an objectively valid claim that excludes incompatible claims and that agrees with all other judgments and is confirmed by this agreement. Judgment is self-consciously self-sustaining because it sustains itself through its understanding that it is making an objectively valid claim. Among other things, it means that judgment self-consciously seeks agreement with all other judgments as its formal aim, both what Engstrom calls ‘subjective agreement’ and ‘objective agreement’. ‘Subjective agreement’ is that all judging subjects are to agree with or hold a valid judgment, and ‘objective agreement’ is that judgments with different content are to agree with and support each other. Thus the formal feature of judgment is that it understands itself, and so constitutively aims, to fit together with all other judgments in a single (mutually supporting) body of knowledge that holds for all judging subjects, and moreover that it sustains itself through its consciousness that it does fit together with all other judgments in this way. In the case of theoretical judgments of the understanding, since the categories and principles of the understanding are conditions of agreement or unity in a single objective self-consciousness, they serve as the internal norms of judgment. The structure here is that a judgment – in this case a theoretical judgment – understands itself to be making an objectively [a] valid claim that stands with all other judgments in one body of knowledge. This is a necessary feature of judgment, in that a mental state that does not understand itself in this way is not a judgment. Further, this self-understanding leads to a set of internal principles that govern exercises of judgment in two respects. First, these internal principles describe and constitutively guide the operation of theoretical judgment and, because they are part of its self-understanding, tacitly guide all instances, even false judgments. One judges about items given in intuition (brings them to the objective unity of self-consciousness by bringing them under the categories and principles of the understanding. Second, these internal principles function as regulative norms that, again because they are based in the self-understanding of judgment, set authoritative standards of success and failure. A judgment that does not meet the condition of agreement with all other judgments must be withdrawn
Moral judgments must be capable of being universalized without contradiction, so the standard is rejecting non-universalizable maxims. Prioritize perfect duties over imperfect ones under my framework. Johnson clarifies the standard:
Kant's first formulation of the CI states [requires] that you are to “act only in accordance with that maxim through which you can at the same time will that it become a universal law.” (G 4:421) O'Neill (1975, 1989) and Rawls (1989, 1999), among others, take this formulation in effect to summarize a decision procedure for moral reasoning, and I will follow them: First, formulate a maxim that enshrines your reason for acting as you propose. Second, recast that maxim as a universal law of nature governing all rational agents, and so as holding that all must, by natural law, act as you yourself propose to act in these circumstances. Third, consider whether your maxim is even conceivable in a world governed by this law of nature. If it is, then, fourth, ask yourself whether you would, or could, rationally will to act on your maxim in such a world. If you could, then your action is morally permissible. If your maxim fails the third step, you have a ‘perfect’ duty admitting “of no exception in favor of inclination” to refrain from acting on it. (G 4:421) If your maxim fails the fourth step, you have an ‘imperfect’ duty requiring you to pursue a policy that can admit of such exceptions. If your maxim passes all four steps, only then is acting on it morally permissible. Following Hill (1992), we can understand the difference in duties as formal: Perfect duties come in the form ‘One must never (or always) φ to the fullest extent possible in C’, while imperfect duties, since they enjoin the pursuit of an end, come in the form ‘One must sometimes and to some extent φ in C’. So, for instance, Kant held that the maxim of committing suicide to avoid future unhappiness did [does] not pass the third step, the contradiction in conception test. Hence, one is forbidden to act on the maxim of committing suicide to avoid unhappiness. By contrast, the maxim of refusing to assist others in pursuit of their projects passes the contradiction in conception test, but fails the contradiction in the will test. Hence, we have a duty to sometimes and to some extent aid and assist others.
I contend that deadly force cannot be universalized. Domestic violence involves mutual violence perpetrated with the intention of domination. Strauss 1
DOMINANCE AND SYMMETRY IN PARTNER VIOLENCE BY MALE AND FEMALE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS IN 32 NATIONS, 2006, Murray A. Straus.
The study investigated the widely held belief that violence against partners in marital, cohabiting, and dating relationships is almost entirely perpetrated by men, and that when women assault their partners, it has a different etiology than assaults by men. The empirical data on these issues were provided by 13,601 university students who participated in the International Dating Violence Study in 32 nations. The results in the first part of this paper show that almost a third of the female as well as male students physically assaulted a dating partner in the 12 month study period, and that the most frequent pattern was mutuality in violence, i.e. both were violent, followed by “female-only” violence. Violence by only the male partner was the least frequent pattern according to both male and female participants. Thesecond part of the paper focuses on whether there is gender symmetry in a crucial aspect of the etiology of partner violence -- dominance by one partner, The results show that dominance by either the male or the female partner is associated with an increased probability of violence. These results, in combination with results from many other studies, call into question the assumption that partner violence is primarily a male crime and that, when women are violent, it is self-defense. Because these assumption are crucial elements in almost all partner violence prevention and treatment programs, a fundamental revision is needed to bring these programs into alignment with the empirical data. Prevention and treatment of partner violence could become more effective if the programs recognize that most partner violence is mutual and act on the high rate of perpetration by women and the similar etiology of partner violence by men and women.
There is almost no empirical evidence that the motive for female violence is self-defense. Strauss 2:
However, examination of [World Health Organization] references 32 [and 37], 37, and 38 found that although all three asserted that women’s violence was primarily [is] in self defense, #32 Saunders (1986) [However,] 32 reported no data on self-defense, #37 DeKesseredy et al (1997) does report data but their data shows that [and in 37] only 6.9% of the women acted in self-defense, and reference #38 Johnson & Ferraro (2000) is a review paper that cites references 32 and 37 and other references which also present no empirical data. At least five other studies that report data on self-defense. Like the DeKesseredy et al. study, four out of the five found that only a small percentages of female violence was in self- defense [Carrado, 1996 #2909; Cascardi, 1995 #230; Felson, 1998 #6675; [Follingstad, 1991 #446; Sarantakos, 1998, 1999 ??; [Sommer, 1996 #3011]. For the one study which found high rates of self-defense, the percentage in self-defense was slightly greater for men (56%) than for women (42%) Harned (2001??). Rather than self-defense, the most usual motivations for violence by women are coercion, anger, and punishing misbehavior by their partner. These motives are parallel to the motivations of male perpetrators. Research on homicides by women shows similar results. For example, Jurik and Gregware (1989) studied 24 female perpetrated homicides and found that 60% had a pervious criminal record, 60% had initiated use of physical force, and only 21% of the homicides were in response to “prior abuse” or “threat of abuse/death.”
Universalizing the use of deadly force for the intent of domination involves a contradiction in conception because willing universal extension of outer freedom, or domination on others, involves an incoherency in the very idea of freedom. Engstrom explains:
Given the preceding considerations, it’s a straightforward matter to see how a maxim of action that assaults the freedom of others with a view to furthering one’s own ends results in a contradiction when we attempt to will it as a universal law in accordance with the foregoing account of the formula of universal law. Such a maxim would lie in a practical judgment that deems it good on the whole to act to limit others’ outer freedom, and hence their self-sufficiency, their capacity to realize their ends, where doing so augments, or extends, one’s own outer freedom and so also one’s own self-sufficiency. Now on the interpretation we’ve been entertaining, applying the formula of universal law involves considering whether it’s possible for every person—every subject capable of practical judgment—to share the practical judgment asserting the goodness of every person’s acting according to the maxim in question. Thus in the present case the application of the formula involves considering whether it’s possible for every person to deem good every person’s acting to limit others’ freedom, where practicable, with a view to augmenting their own freedom. Since here all persons are on the one hand deeming good both the limitation of others’ freedom and the extension of their own freedom, while on the other hand, insofar as they agree with the similar judgments of others, also deeming good the limitation of their own freedom and the extension of others’ freedom, they are all deeming good both the extension and the limitation of both their own and others’ freedom. These judgments are inconsistent insofar as the extension of a person’s outer freedom is incompatible with the limitation of that same freedom
Thus, deadly force cannot be universalized because domestic violence usually involves cases of mutual violence in which each partner wills domination over the other. In cases of mutual violence, neither “victim” can claim the moral high ground. In such cases, deadly force is a limiting case of domination—the coercive use of force—and is thus impermissible.

===Identity K=== 
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Identity K</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">A. Link—The concept of “woman” is fluid and undefinable. Butler 1:</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;"> “The very subject of women is no longer understood in stable or abiding terms. There is a great deal of material that not only questions the viability of “the subject” as the ultimate candidate for representation or, indeed, liberation, but [and] there is very little agreement after all on what it is that constitutes, or ought to constitute, the category of women. The domains of political and linguistic “representation” set out in advance the criterion by which subjects themselves are formed, with the result that representation is extended only to what can be acknowledged as a subject. In other words, the qualifications for being a subject must first be met before representation can be extended. ”</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">The AC fails to recognize “woman” as being fluid and undefinable. The criticism defines women as a static excluded voice, and generalizes their experience to one of extreme oppression. I agree that the exclusion of the victim is bad, but the idea that there is a generalized standpoint from which we can make those evaluations is problematic. Her understanding fails to take into account women who experience something different.</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">B. The aff’s articulation of total victimhood denies women’s agency which reinforces essentialism—even if well intentioned</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Tickner, 1992 (J Ann – feminist international relations @ USC, Gender in International Relations, p. 59)</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Such a notion of citizenship cannot come about, however, until myths that perpetuate views of women as victims rather than agents are eliminated. One such myth is the association of women with peace, an association that has been invalidated through considerable evidence of women’s support for men’s wars in many societies. In spite of a gender gap, a plurality of women rally support for war and national security policies; Bernice Carroll suggests that the association of women and peace is what has been imposed on women by their disarmed condition. In the West, this association grew out of Victorian ideology of women’s moral superiority and the glorification of motherhood. This ideal was expressed by feminist Charlotte Perkins Gilman whose book Herland was serialized in The Forerunner in 1915. Gilman glorified women as caring and nurturing mothers whose private sphere skills could benefit the world at large. Most turn-of-the-century feminists shared Gilman’s ideas. But if the implication of this view was that women were disqualified from participating I the corrupt world of political and economic power by virtue of their moral superiority, the result could be the perpetuation of male dominance. Many contemporary feminists see dangers in the continuation of these essentializing myths that can only result in the perpetuation of women’s subordination and reinforce dualism’s that serve to make men more powerful. The association of femininity with peace lends support to an idealized masculinity that depends on constructing women as passive victims in need of protection. It also contributes to the claim that women are naïve in matter relating to international politics. An enriched, less militarized notion of citizenship cannot be built on such a weak foundation.</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">B. Turns case-The AC’s efforts to protect women are undermined by it’s static conception of women. Even if this is ostensibly done to promote the welfare of women, it is precisely this type of representational politics that reinforces patriarchal domination and creates systemic micro-fascism, where women internalize specific views on how they ought to behave based on expectations of proper behavior for women and victims. Butler 2:</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;"> “Foucault points out that juridical systems of power produce the subjects they subsequently come to represent. Juridical notions of power appeal to regulate political life in purely negative terms- that is, through the imitation, prohibition, regulation, control and even “protection” of individuals related to that political structure through the contingent and retractable operation of choice. - that is, through the imitation, prohibition, regulation, control and even “protection” of individuals related to that political structure through the contingent and retractable operation of choice. But the subjects regulated by such structures are, by virtue of being subjected to them, formed, defined, and reproduced in accordance with the requirements of those structures. If this analysis is right, then the juridical formation of language and politics that represents women as “the subject” of feminism is itself a distinctive formation and effect of a given version of representational politics. And the feminist subject turns out to be discursively constituted by the very political system that is supposed to facilitate its emancipation. This becomes politically problematic if that system can be shown to produce gendered subjects along a differential axis of domination or to produce subjects who are presumed to be masculine. [and] In such cases an uncritical appeal to such a system for the emancipation of “women” will be clearly self-defeating.”</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Turns Case—The way she characterizes women excludes them from the only space they have. The labeling of women as fitting one static conception makes women who do not fit that description lose out. Waters:</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">It is unlikely that survivors of lesbian IPV will seek support from shelters because they see shelters as the province of heterosexual women (Helfrich and Simpson 2005). Survivors of lesbian IPV are more likely to consult friends, family or a therapist (Giorgio 2002, Girshick 2002). Domestic violence services are often seen as unavailable or severely limited to survivors whose batterer are female, due to homophobia, social constructions of ―appropriate battered woman and exclusivity. Traditionally, survivors of domestic violence have been heterosexual women mostly with children, who have experienced physical abuse at the hands of their husband or boyfriend. Loseke deemed these women as ―real battered women. Survivors whose circumstances differ or who have different experiences have not been viewed as battered women by shelter advocates (Loseke 1992; Simpson and Helfrich 2005; VanNatta 2005; Helfrich and Simpson 2006). Homophobia Seidman (2003) defines homophobia as a systemic crisis privileging the heteronormative nature of our society by foundationally establish[es]ing that heterosexuality is the assumed social norm to which all other sexualities are compared. While sexuality is seen as a continuum on which heterosexuality and homosexuality are both terminal ends, heterosexuality is hierarchally privileged over homosexuality to such extent that social structures, laws and norms are constructed to value heterosexuality above all others (Bograd 1999). Lesbian battering occurs in the larger context of homophobia which affects women personally, socially and systematically. As Pharr (1986) explains: There is an important difference between the battered lesbian and the battered nonlesbian: the battered non-lesbian experiences violence within the context of a misogynist world: the lesbian experiences violence within the context of a world that is not only woman-hating, but is also homophobic (pg 204). The term homophobia was coined by Weinberg (1972) to describe an irrational fear, hatred and intolerance of homosexuality. This term has evolved and is now viewed as more inline with other ―-isms‖ including racism, sexism and classism (Balsam 2001). Some researchers have proposed that ―heterosexism‖ is a more suitable term. Heterosexism as defined by Herek is ―an ideological system that denies, denigrates, and stigmatizes, any non-heterosexual 14 14 form of behavior, [or] identity, relationship and community‖ (2004: 316). For the purpose of this paper, I use the terms heterosexism and homophobia interchangeably. Whether perceived or actual, homophobia and/or heterosexism [is an] are immense barriers for lesbians seeking assistance for domestic violence. Services that are available to traditional victims of domestic violence are not usually available to lesbians. In a study by Renzetti, 64% of lesbian women in abusive relationships stayed in them simply because they ―did not know where, or how, to seek help (1992: 395). Services readily known and available to heterosexual women are not readily known or available to lesbian women including shelters, hotlines, support groups, transitional housing, court advocates, and child specialists (McLaughlin & Rozee, 2001; Balsam 2001). Shelters and DV services are expected to be anti-heterosexist, anti-homophobic, and concerned solely with domestic violence (Donnelly et al.. 1999). Such expectations come from the community, financial supporters, religious institutions and other shelter residence. This, however, is a dangerous assumption. Society at large privileges heterosexuality over homosexuality as right and moral and lesbians as wrong and immoral. DV workers and shelter residents do not escape these socialized messages and often further isolate and alienate battered lesbians who are seeking shelter from violence in their own homes (Girshick 2002). This alienation can include turning away lesbians because the shelter is ―full‖; not distinguishing the primary aggressor from the survivor in a lesbian relationship and discounting the lesbian survivor‘s experience of abuse as not ―real abuse. All of these place women at risk.</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">C. Their false universalization of sex and gender is informed by the logic of capital which presents itself as totalizing and irreversible. We must instead recognize that capital is entirely contingent in order to make any progressive politics for women. This functions as an impact turn to their victim standpoint arguments.</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Bruno, 2006 (Javier Pareira – U of Texas, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.ucu.edu.uy/Facultades/CienciasHumanas/IPES/pdf/Laboratorio/Critiques_to_Western_Feminism_JPereira.pdf|http://www.ucu.edu.uy/Facultades/CienciasHumanas/IPES/pdf/ Laboratorio/Critiques_to_Western_Feminism_JPereira.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">In her analysis of the discourses of globalization in feminist politics Suzanne Bergeron criticized the notion of “strategic sisterhood” as has been developed by Western feminist activists. Reinforced by discourses of globalization, feminist analyses tend to ignore local specificities promoting the strategy of a “global feminism” as a shared voice against a supposedly unified capitalist world market. Echoing the work of other scholars, Bergeron argues that we need to be aware of these images of “transnational feminism within which varying local interpretations are collapsed into a homogeneous identity of women’s interests against global capitalism” (Bergeron, 2000, p.1000). The notion of a universal feminist movement to resist the universal forces of gender inequality, are rooted – in Bergeron’s perspective – in the way in which feminists think about the nature of globalizing capital as supported by a “unified, intentional and noncontradictory economic logic”. In her view, feminists should begin to denaturalize globalizing capitalism and see it as a socially constructed process, imagining a wider range of alternatives to transform and subvert the principles of market economies. Instead of perceiving economic globalization as a monolithic, dominant and irreversible force, Bergeron suggests to deconstruct this process and examine its complexities and the multiple opportunities that it is sheltering for feminist movements. Her analysis documents several cases in which women succeed in organizing themselves in the context of global restructures, providing powerful examples of alternative strategies at the national and international level. In Tanzania for example, women chose to work in the informal sector rather than multinational corporations, and in Mexico, women used their wages from maquilladoras to start a women’s center that provided legal assistance. While the cited examples show forms of resistance that seek to transform the material conditions, they also “have transformed women’s sense of individual and collective identity as well as they renegotiate their places in the household, workplace, and community.” (p.999). Women’s resistance strategies need to take into account the complexities underlying the process of economic globalization, overcoming the simplistic characterization of weak and undefended states against the powerful and irreducible forces of capital. Instead, the author suggests that women’s strategies should identify and confront the “scattered hegemonies” that may operate at the various levels of “global economic institutions, nation-states, patriarchal households, and other structures that support exploitation.” (p. 1001).</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">D. The alternative is a refusal to live a single identity as the truth and instead recognize that the category of women is permanently open to different interpretations. Only then can we solve for representational politics. Vasterling:</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Feminist politics can draw a valuable lesson from the general argument concerning radical inclusivity. In so far as feminist politics invokes the category of "women," it seems to face a dilemma. On the one hand, it cannot but rely on this category if it is to have a basis for solidarity and empowerment. On the other hand, not even the most politically correct, multiculturalist specification of identities can fulfill the promise of inclusivity this category holds out. On the contrary, if anything, politically correct identity politics evokes rather than assuages recriminations of exclusion and lack of recognition. Instead of empowerment and solidarity, a "politicing of identity" (Butler 1993, 117) is the result. We are confronted with the dilemma of either giving up the category of "women" and hence the basis of feminist politics or resigning ourselves to proto-totalitarian identity politics. However, if we take the category of "woman" as a regulative idea(l) rather than an actual representation of all women, the dilemma is resolved. This means that we have "to learn a double movement: to invoke the category and, hence, provisionally to institute an identity and at the same time to open the category as a site of permanent political contest" (Butler 1993, 222). Only if we do not forget that the idea of total inclusivity is not realizable as such and hence that the category of "women" is permanently open to different interpretations, can the invocation of this category enable solidarity and empower feminist politics.</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">[The K asks a prior question it doesn’t interact with the jail argument. She can’t concede the criticism because that proves that the aff links to itself before the judge would even evaluate the double turn.]</span>
===2nr v. Strake Jesuit DM=== 

No Permutation
1. No permutation—Solvency requires divergence from the current domestic violence movement/conception—alt key to solve domestic violence
Giordano 10—(Non-Phytsical Forms of Intimate Partner Violence in Lesbian Relationships, Jessica L. Giordano, University of New Orleans, 2010, University of New Orleans Theses and Dissertations)
These suggestions support efforts that diverge from those of the dominant heterosexual domestic violence movement. If the domestic violence movement refuses to respond to the existence and severity of abuse in queer relationships, those who study and experience abuse in queer relationships must find ways to create new systems designed to support the communities in which it occurs. These suggestions direct advocates toward the formation of new collectives of people who realize that the systems in place, though once progressive and impactful, no longer work (Stark 2007). Many of these suggestions mirror those of previous researchers and may be critiqued for being reactive. We may effectively prevent future abuse, though, by first reacting to existing abuse. For example, holding batterers accountable may help prevent them from abusing future partners, thus, decreasing the prevalence of IPV. This work supports the existence of many movements working toward a common goal, as it acknowledges there are many different experiences with IPV. In order to bring an end to intimate partner violence, intervention efforts must be directed toward all those involved, effectively all members of society. Stark (2007) points out that an end to IPV has not been achieved, because the domestic violence movement has failed to address the inequalities at the core of intimate relationships. I add that under the system in place survivors who do not fit the dominant model are left without resources or support and abusers are permitted to continue with their behaviors as reasons society is no closer to seeing an end to intimate partner violence.

2. No permutation—removing abusers from the community doesn’t solve—the abuser needs to be confronted within the new community network that recognizes the invalidity of all forms of abuse.
Giordano 10—(Non-Phytsical Forms of Intimate Partner Violence in Lesbian Relationships, Jessica L. Giordano, University of New Orleans, 2010, University of New Orleans Theses and Dissertations)
Some major actors in the domestic violence movement, such as Stark (2007), claim the proper course of action is to remove those who abuse from society. I disagree. If the estimate that one in four women experiences abuse at the hands of a loved one in her lifetime is assumed true, efforts to remove those who abuse would be nearly impossible (Tjaden and Thoennes 2000). Successful intervention must include a more consistent effort of collective peer involvement to hold all abusers accountable for their behaviors. Confronting an abuser, who is also a friend, family member, coworker, or so forth, poses certain risks. Relationships are viewed as private and oftentimes people would rather not interfere for fear of losing that friend, family member, coworker, or so forth even if she is abusive. Furthermore, I can not make a broad suggestion of how to hold all abusers accountable anymore than I can outline the behaviors all abusers use. Intervention strategies should be unique to the social settings in which the abuse occurs. What if people in Allison’s social group talked to her abuser about her behaviors at times other than when she was escalated? What if Peggy’s friends realized Peggy needed time away from her abuser and stopped going to social gatherings where the abuser would be present? What if caretakers and other members of society found a way to make abusers “realize it for themselves” as Allison suggested? Perhaps then abusers would not simply move on to hurt other women when one partner leaves them. Perhaps then abusers would be able to better identify their behaviors and work toward change. It is unfair to assume all those who use abusive behaviors are unwilling to change. Without resources and support, though, it would be very difficult for them to do so. As Allison pointed out, “you can’t just tell someone how it is, and what their life is like, and what’s wrong with their life.” It is also important to listen to community members and realize that although they may not be familiar with the literature, they are familiar with the relationships in which they experience abuse. And though it may contradict what advocates assume to be true, they provide valuable insight. For example, though it may seem helpful to assure survivors that abusers are fully responsible for the abusive behaviors, Allison stated she felt more “empowered” when she was able to take some responsibility for the situations surrounding her abuse. The participants of this study realized that although they did not cause the abuse itself, they were capable actors in the events of their own lives. This knowledge could help advocates work with survivors to build their self-image and help them see the power they possess

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> [[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>