[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Kickapoo 1AC - Propellant Depots</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Contetion 1- Inherency – or what is going on in the current system to prevent positive changes from occurring.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">The space program is at a crossroad. The government currently focuses on large launches such as the Space Launch System, or SLS. This focus threatens to destroy NASA and should be replaced by a move to propellant depots, which are basically refueling stations for shuttles.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Tumlinson explains in 2011</span>**
<span style="color: #af0011; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Rick Tumlinson</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Thu, 8 September, 2011 Decision Time for America’s Future in Space http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/110decision-time-america-future-space.html</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">There are moments in...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Aeronautics did for aerospace.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 21.3333px;">Because of this my partner and I will affirm the resolution that the United States federal government should substantially increase its development and/ or exploration of space beyond earth’s mesosphere.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 21.3333px;">Our plan to do this is that the United States congress should promote propellant depots for space exploration as advocated by Jonathan Goff.</span>**
**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 21.3333px;">Funding, enforcement, administration, and other logistics of the plan will be through necessary means.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Contention 2- The plan would solve – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">First, the government should do the plan. It stimulates the private sector and moves NASA away from heavy-lift vehicles. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Goff 08</span>**
<span style="color: #224e00; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://selenianboondocks.com/2008/12/propellant-depot-policy-thoughts/|Propellant Depot Policy Thoughts]]</span><span style="color: #878787; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Dec 10th, 2008 by </span><span style="color: #224e00; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://selenianboondocks.com/author/admin/|Jonathan Goff]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Founder/CEO</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Altius Space Machines </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Brigham Young University</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">MS, Mechanical engineering </span><span style="color: #878787; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://selenianboondocks.com/2008/12/propellant-depot-policy-thoughts/</span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">So here’s my thoughts... work to proceed unchanged.</span>

**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">And the technology is ready now. The only barrier is psychological within NASA due to a reliance on large launches. Our plan overcomes this.</span>**
**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Foust 08</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Propellant depots: an idea whose time has (almost) come </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">by Jeff Foust </span>////<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Monday, May 12, 2008 http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1127/1</span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">While </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">propellant depots offer</span>__**...<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> transferring propellants in zero-g.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Contention 3- The plan helps the economy.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">First, the economy is in bad shape. It would literally only take one additional negative effect to send the economy into another recession.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Kolet and Alexander on September 30, 2011</span>**
<span style="color: #5c5c5c; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Ilan Kolet and Caroline Alexander </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. Recession Risk Rises on April Oil Price Jump: Chart of Day http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-30/u-s-recession-risk-rises-on-april-oil-price-jump-chart-of-day.html</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">“The probability of a </span>__**...<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> to the world economy.”</span>

**And this reduction in the economy leads to a reduction in our nations security.**
**Khalilzad 11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ZALMAY KHALILZAD FEBRUARY 8, 2011 4:00 A.M. The Economy and National Security [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1]]</span>
**__Without faster economic growth__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">**__...__**</span> **__and shedding international commitments__****__.__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">We will isolate 3 reasons why the plan would help the economy –</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">The first is innovation –</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Propellant depots offer a short time-frame way for companies to explore space. This drives innovation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Bergin 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">NASA and Commercial industry combine to outline FTD Propellant Depot plan </span><span style="color: #646464; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">August 5th, 2010 by Chris Bergin http://www.nasaspaceflight.com/2010/08/nasa-commercial-combine-outline-ftd-propellant-depot-plan/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;">Strategically placed at one ...LEO by up to 57 percent.”</span>

**Technological innovation is an important aspect of economic leadership. The last 500 years prove this.**
**Drezner 01**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniel </span><span style="font-family: 'Candara','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Drezner</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (professor of international politics at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University) </span><span style="font-family: 'Candara','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">2001</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “ State structure, technological leadership and the maintenance of hegemony” [[http://www.danieldrezner.com/research/tech.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In this decade,</span> **__proponents ...__**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> lose their lead over time.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">The next way is space debris</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Currently 95% of satellites basically become debris when they run out of fuel. Allowing new propellant technology from the affirmative plan would reverse this trend.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Fossett et al 08</span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">INNOVATION & CREDIBILITY: THE LOXLEO STARTUP An Interactive Qualifying Project Report Submitted to the Faculty of the WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Degree of Bachelor of Science by</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Ryan Fossett Geoffrey Karasic Lucas Lincoln Peter Moore Thomas Max Roberts</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Date: May 5, 2008 http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-052308-090527/unrestricted/Innovation_and_Credibility_fv.pdf</span>
**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">A problem with the</span>__**...<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> organizations reach their objectives.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">And this space debris makes economic collapse inevitable for several reasons: it disrupts GPS, cripples banking, and interrupts power grids.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Ansdell 10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Megan **Ansdell, ’10** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” </span><span style="color: #0000f6; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span>
**__<span style="color: #1a1818; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">There are currently hundreds ...</span>__****__<span style="color: #1a1818; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';"> interrupt electric power grids</span>__**<span style="color: #1a1818; font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Logsdon 2001).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">The final way is by creating jobs – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">The plan could be done with the existing technology for NASA and it creates jobs in the private sector.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Rohrabacher 11</span>**
*PRESS RELEASE*** Rohrabacher Demands Release of NASA’s Recent On-Orbit Fuel Depot Analysis** //<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Sends Letter to Former Administrator Griffin Asking Him to Join in Call for Transparency After Science Committee Testimony http://rohrabacher.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=261856</span>//
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">“The promise and potential ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> like the Constellation design.</span>

**Finally, jobs are the most important part of the economy. In today’s economy, creating jobs is the ONLY way to stimulate economic growth**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Yedlin on September 8, 2011</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Yedlin: U.S. jobs needed to jump-start their economy, and ours </span><span class="name" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">By Deborah Yedlin, Calgary Herald</span><span class="timestamp" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">September 8, 2011</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.calgaryherald.com/business/Yedlin+jobs+needed+jump+start+their+economy+ours/5368983/story.html#ixzz1XP18zFwM|http://www.calgaryherald.com/business/Yedlin+jobs+needed+jump+start+their+economy+ours/5368983/story.html#ixzz1XP18zFwM]]</span>
**__Two wars__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that </span>**__have ...__****__a budget-neutral approach.__**

==**__New Trier 10/22 - JPSS__**== 

**Contention 1- Inherency and no disads**
**First, the government is cutting the Joint Polar Satellite System. This will lead to a gap in weather coverage.**
Spaceflight Now 11
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Spaceflight Now—the leading source for online space news, 2011 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“NOAA chief sounds alarm over likely weather data gap,” Byline Stephen Clark, April 15th, Available Online at http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1104/15jpss/, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accessed 07-31-2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The administrator of NOAA w__...__</span><span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in weather coverage</span>**</span>**.**

**AND This is despite the fact that the government will continue to spend billions of dollars on NASA for pet projects.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Heiser 11</span>**
<span style="color: #535353; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thenewamerican.com/tech-mainmenu-30/space/8147-keeping-the-final-space-shuttle-mission-in-perspective| JAMES HEISER ]]</span>[[http://thenewamerican.com/tech-mainmenu-30/space/8147-keeping-the-final-space-shuttle-mission-in-perspective|**Keeping the Final Space Shuttle Mission in Perspective**]]<span style="color: #535353; font-size: 8pt;">08 JULY 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://thenewamerican.com/tech-mainmenu-30/space/8147-keeping-the-final-space-shuttle-mission-in-perspective]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> accessed july 28, 2011</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Trebuchet MS'; font-size: 8pt;">Since the end of... </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">caused this nation to thrive.</span>



**Thus the plan:**
**<span style="font-size: 24pt;">The United States federal government, specifically congress, should fund the Joint Polar Satellite System, or JPSS. Administration, enforcement, and funding is through necessary means.</span>**


**Contention 2- Weather**

**First, extreme weather is increasing. 2011 has already been the most devastating year on record and population data is trending towards making the storms more severe.**

**Sutton 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jane Sutton U.S. sees growing losses from extreme weather Wed Aug 17, 2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://af.reuters.com/article/commoditiesNews/idAFN1E77G0MK20110817?pageNumber=3&virtualBrandChannel=0&sp=true</span>
**__The United States has ...__** **__such as coastal regions.__**



**In light of this we will isolate two different ways that this weather preparation is critical-**

**The first is tornados – the gap in coverage due to budget cuts eliminates 85% of the data to assist in tornado evacuation.**
Spinner 11
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kate Spinner, Columnist, Herald-Tribune, “Satellite gap could put hurricane forecasts at risk,” 6/9, http://www.heraldtribune.com/article/20110609/ARTICLE/110609535?p=all&tc=pgall&tc=ar]</span>
**__A__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> looming </span>**__gap in...__**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> its lifespan next fall.</span>


**And more people will die as a direct result of this lack of data. This impact is systemic.**
Brinton 11
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Turner Brinton, reporter for military space and missile defense, Space News, “After Tornado Spate, Fourteen US Senators Call for JPSS Funding,” 5/20, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110620-fourteen-senators-call-jpss-funding.html</span>
**__A group of 14 U.S. ....__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> NOAA weather satellites.”</span>

**AND prefer our systemic impacts over their one shot disadvantages.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brian</span> **Martin in 84**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Extinction politics http://www.uow.edu.au/~bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html</span>
**__A related factor ...__****__issues are more pressing.__**


**The second type of devastation we will look at is hurricanes-**
**Hurricanes are increasing. Warmer ocean temperatures and changing atmospheric pressure is going to make this the new normal.**
**Winkler 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Forecasters Expect More Hurricanes This Season By </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.christianpost.com/author/amanda-winkler/|Amanda Winkler]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Aug. 05 2011 http://www.christianpost.com/news/forecasters-expect-more-hurricanes-this-season-53474/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Thursday,</span> **__federal ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> than usual by 3 to 5 degrees.</span>


**And without the continuation of funding for JPSS there is a 100% chance that the US will not be prepared for hurricanes. This leads to a multitude of problems including: loss of lives, a 90% reduction in global trade, a loss of key military information, and a long term cost increase.**
**Conathan 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Conathan is Director of Oceans Policy at American Progress. Stormy Conditions Await if NOAA Funding Is Cut </span><span class="timestamp" style="font-size: 8pt;">February 18, 2011 http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/noaa_funding.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">More than $700 million ... </span>**__also 100 percent accurate__**.


**Independently, hurricanes create large blooms of harmful algae in the ocean. The JPSS is key to detecting and removing this.**
**Our Amazing Planet 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How a Hurricane Impacts the Ocean Sep 7, 2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.ouramazingplanet.com/how-a-hurricane-impacts-the-ocean-1977/</span>
**__Hurricanes have marked effects__** <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">....</span>**__NASA NPP and NOAA JPSS satellite missions.__**





**AND an increase in harmful algae dramatically wrecks the ocean ecosystem.**
**Littlera et al 05**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harmful algae on tropical coral reefs: Bottom-up eutrophication and top-down herbivory</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark M. Littler a,*, Diane S. Littler a,b, Barrett L. Brooks a a Department of Botany, MRC 166, PO Box 37012, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC 20013, USA b Division of Marine Science, Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution, 5600 US 1 North, Ft. Pierce, FL 34946, USA Received 10 November 2005 www.littlersworks.net/reprints/Littler2006a.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A conceptual paradigm, the ...</span> **__altering ecosystem resiliencies.__**

**And the impact to this is extinction.**
**Craig ’03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robin Kundis, Associate Profess of Law at Indiana, Winter, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis]</span>
**__The world’s oceans contain ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is not necessarily unique.</span>

**However, the United States should fully fund the JPSS. This would save lives and allow the US to be weather ready.**
American Geophysical Union 11
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Geophysical Union—a not-for-profit society of Earth and space scientists with more than 61,000 members worldwide, 2011 (“Scientists Warn of Public Safety Impact if Weather Satellite Program Remains Unfunded,” Press Release Available from PR Newswire, May 19th, Available Online at http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/scientists-warn-of-public-safety-impact-if-weather-satellite-program-remains-unfunded-122243468.html, Accessed 07-30-2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the nation readies itself...</span> **__other search and rescue operations."__**

=== === 


**And history is on our side. When correct evacuation data is used lives are saved.**
Arnold and Park 2008<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Adam D. Arnold, University of Arizona, Jenni L. Evans, Penn State University, Department of Meteorology, “Vulnerability Metrics of Hurricane Forecast Accuracy,”]</span>
**__Evacuations of the affected ...__****__property in the face of a hurricane__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Finally, we must act now. The JPSS must get funding by 2012 to prevent a lack of data.**
**Boyle 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Weather monitoring is vital, but don't mention the C-word By </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.popsci.com/category/popsci-authors/rebecca-boyle|Rebecca Boyle]]</span><span class="posted" style="font-size: 8pt;">Posted 05.23.2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap</span>
**__Polar-orbiting satellites can provide ...__****__bad for all of us,"__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he said.</span>


**Contention 3- I want to be a 2a when I grow up**
**First, there are checks against violence. Evolution and cooperation mean there’s no incentive for war.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Pinker 2009</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ph.D. Harvard college professor of psychology (Stephen, April 1st, “Why is there peace?” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/why_is_there_peace/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James Payne suggests another ...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> “there but for fortune go I.”</span>
**AND economic interconnectedness stops war. Trends point affirmative.**
**Easterbrook 05**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Easterbrook,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> senior fellow at The New Republic, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">05</span> **[Greg, “EXPLAINING 15 YEARS OF DIMINISHING VIOLENCE — The End of War?”,** <span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://democraticpeace.wordpress.com/2009/05/31/easterbrook-end-of-war/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is even a chance ...</span> **__ought to take notice__**.



**AND the US economy is resilient. This evidence isolates 4 reasons including infrastructure and disaster plans.**
**Business Insider 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How Socio-Economics Makes China A Bigger Credit Risk Than The US Aug 14 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.businessinsider.com/how-socio-economics-makes-china-a-bigger-credit-risk-than-the-us-2011-8#ixzz1Xy17Yxyz|http://www.businessinsider.com/how-socio-economics-makes-china-a-bigger-credit-risk-than-the-us-2011-8#ixzz1Xy17Yxyz]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The double AA status ...</span> **__building standards,__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> etc.</span>
**AND weather observation satellites will be used for cooperation, not competition.**
**Launiusr 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roger, Ph. D. Division of Space History, Smithsonian Institution, International Competition versus Cooperation in Space </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://launiusr.wordpress.com/2011/03/23/international-competition-versus-cooperation-in-space/|March 23, 2011]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://launiusr.wordpress.com/2011/03/23/international-competition-versus-cooperation-in-space/</span>

**__This suggests that international ...__****__future of space exploration.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I would like to think so.</span>


**And the JPSS uniquely provides the best weather mapping.**
**PR Newswire 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sept. 10 /PRNewswire NASA Awards Ozone Instrument Suite for First JPSS Spacecraft</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nasa-awards-ozone-instrument-suite-for-first-jpss-spacecraft-102651799.html</span>
**__NASA__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on behalf of t...</span> **__no gaps in coverage.__**


**Additionally, this mapping solves the epistemological and ontological questions that arise as a result of their criticism. The use of the mapper,the availability of the initial data and the qualification of differing viewpoints allows the affirmative to test the multidirectionality of the criticism.**
**Hallisey 05**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cartographic Visualization: An Assessment and Epistemological Review* Elaine J. Hallisey Director of the GIS Team at the Office of Health Information and Policy, Division of Public Health, at the Georgia Department of Human Resources, Georgia State University http://www.coss.fsu.edu/geography/stallins/geog/Readings/hallisey.pdf</span>
**__The two primary aims...__** **__be ‘‘the fourth ace in the pack__****__.’’__**



**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">AND, our interpretation is that the affirmative’s job is to offer a topical plan that supports the resolution. The negative’s job is refute this by offering ONE COMPETING POLICY OPTION. This may take the form of a counterplan or defending the status quo and running disadvantages.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">The first reason to prefer our interpretation is fairness. Allowing other frameworks makes it only possible for the negative to win. In a non-policy making framework the kritik will always make sense. However, when pushed into policy making, kritiks leave no clear guidance and ultimately just contradict themselves. This justifies judge intervention in every round.</span>**
**Ignatieff 04**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Ignatieff, Carr professor of human rights at Harvard, 2004 Lesser Evils p. 20-1 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As for</span> <span class="underline">moral perfectionism, ... us to betray anothe</span>r**.**


**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">ADDITIONALLY affirmative choice is key to voice. If the negative chooses a different framework this eliminates this entire speech act. There are literally millions of different frameworks that they could choose to act within. This limitless ability to kritik anything turns their criticism. If we are open to anything then we are functionally open to nothing. </span>**
**Shively 00**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Ruth Lessl Shively, Assoc Prof Polisci at Texas A&M, 2000 //Political Theory and Partisan Politics// p. 179</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To put this point ...</span><span class="underline"> we can give them</span>.


**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">AND our framework is key to education. While some education is inevitable because people are going to talk about something for the next hour and a half, the best education is topic specific. This also solves back any of the arguments for why the kritik is important. Only through using high school debate as a space for discussion of policy can we find ways to combat the power structures that are kritiked by the negative.</span>**
**Lutz 00**
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Donald S. Lutz, Professor of Polisci at Houston, 2000 //Political Theory and Partisan Politics// p. 36-7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">The position argued here ...with power in the long run.</span>


**And our role playing as the US Federal Government solves your kritik. Debating as though we are the US Federal Government is excellent for education. It allows for your argument to be thought about, however, only through the role playing are we able to combine the theory of your argument into the praxis of governmental policy making. It also benefits the judge more than your argument.**
**Joyner 99**<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor International Law @ Georgetwon, 99 (Christopher “TEACHING INTERNATIONAL LAW: VIEWS FROM AN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLITICAL SCIENTIST” ILSA Journal of International & Comparative Law, Spring, 5 ILSA J Int'l & Comp L 377) Use of the</span> **__debate__****__can ...__**__**critique, and legal defense**.__

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Dowling 1ac - Famine Early Warning Systems</span>**</span>== 
**Contention 1 - inherency**



**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">First, funding for the Famine Early Warning System, or FEWS, has been cut. Future cuts are expected. This undermines the effectiveness of the satellites.</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Parthemore and Rogers 11</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Blinded: The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security christine Parthemore and Will rogers Jul<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]]</span></span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Budget constraints are likely to continue to severely limit U.S. investments in new satellites and other capabilities</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">, according to government officials in a range of agencies. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Funding may become the critical constraint on future earth monitoring capabilities.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">The March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, for example, highlighted the importance of tsunami early warning capabilities. Yet funding cuts threaten NOAA’s Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of Tsunamis (DART) program, which proved crucial for leveraging U.S. satellite and ground-based systems to extend evacuation time in Hawaii, including at a range of coastal military bases. The National Weather Service, which runs the DART program, may see cuts of up to 28 percent for fiscal year (FY) 2012.14 </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">The</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID)</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> Famine Early Warning System (FEWS) network will likely see its budget reduced in the next several years </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">as well, and accord- ing to many USAID officials the agency’s climate change work is one of the areas most likely to be cut. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">NASA’s Applied Sciences Program, which disseminates information and other data from NASA satellites, has also contributed to early warning and response to natural disasters. The president’s budget request for FY 2012 includes 33.1 million dollars for this program – down from 35.3 million dollars in FY 2010 – and Congress may cut that number even further.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">15 </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">These offices and programs are critical to executing the existing satellites’ missions.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">And the need for Famine Early Warning Systems to be funded through congress undermines its effectiveness.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Brown 08</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Famine early warning systems and remote sensing data By Molly E. Brown, PhD, employed by NASA, pg 305-306, google books</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">FEWS NET's activities</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">, however, are not funded under PL 480, which means that it </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">must get its annual funds through the contentious, difﬁcult and highly politicized budget process at USAID</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">In 2007, after nearly being defunded and having its USAID representatives spend six months trying to restore funding levels to that of 2006. FEWS NET’s supporters and leadership have sought to include funding for its work under the PL 480 reauthorization effort that is currently in congress**__.__** If this is successful, FEWS NET will become institutionalized similar to USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service, one that has regular, reliable funding and that can focus on improving its services without having to focus on maintaining its funding levels in an ever-varying political environment. Since</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> the need for information seems only to increase through time.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">there is signiﬁcant support for this effort. Although food aid authorized through PL 480 has improved or saved the lives of many hundreds of millions of people worldwide since its passage in 1954, there has been much discussion during the reauthorization process that describes how the law could be changed to make food aid a more effective and farther reaching tool. Barrett and Maxwell (2005) describe policy changes that would greatly improve its ability to reduce poverty and hunger while simultaneously reducing costs. There are a few of these that FEWS NET could directly address, with its use of remote sensing being at the forefront. The relevant recommendations include: 0 Focus on emergencies and make the response quicker and more ﬂexible; 0 Within current budgets, adapt the resource to ﬁt the application; 0 Improve the targeting of food aid; and 0 Use food aid only where it is appropriate (Barrett and Maxwell, 2005). These are all areas where FEWS NET has worked to provide information and policy guidance for the past twenty years, and yet Barrett and Maxwell point out thatthey can be done better</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> **__Because the provisioning of food aid is part of a political process, information and recommendations provided to the US and other donor countries may not be followed. The information itself could be better__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 6pt;">and the preceding sections and chapters point to ways this can be done. Overall, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">FEWS NET can only be as effective as the structure in which it operates.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 24pt;">Thus the plan:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 24pt;">The </span>****<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 24pt;">National Aeronautics and Space Administration</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 24pt;">will substantially increase its development of satellites used in famine early warning systems. Funding, enforcement, and administration will be through necessary means.</span>**





**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Contention 2 – Food </span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">First - Climate change, food price spikes, and crop yields are currently causing food insecurity.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Payton 11</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">More famine likely as climate warms, Oxfam warns </span><span style="color: #535353; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">By Laura Payton, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #143f68; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cbc.ca/news/credit.html|CBC News]]</span><span style="color: #535353; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> Posted: Nov 27, 2011<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/story/2011/11/27/famine-climate-oxfam.html]]</span></span>

**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">This year’s food shortages and famine are a sign of what’s to come if the world doesn’t get climate change under control,</span>__**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> Oxfam is warning. The international development agency made a call for action the day before the UN kicks off its annual climate change conference in Durban, South Africa. The 2010 conference, in Cancun, Mexico, resolved few of the issues remaining after the 2009 Copenhagen conference, leaving some pinning their hopes on this year's Durban conference. </span>**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Oxfam warns that without action, the world will see more food insecurity as well as skyrocketing food prices and unpredictable crop yields.</span>__**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> “Our failure to cope with the climate variability and shocks of today presents a daunting outlook for food security tomorrow,” Oxfam said in a report released Sunday. “For governments around the world this serves as an urgent call to act at the UN climate talks in Durban if the extreme weather events witnessed in 2010-11 are not to be a grim foretaste of future suffering and hunger.” “Our failure to cope with the climate variability and shocks of today presents a daunting outlook for food security tomorrow.”</span><span style="color: #444444; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">—Oxfam report </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Canadians donated more than $70 million to aid East Africa last summer as a famine gripped the region, devastating more than 13 million people. Pakistan is facing food shortages after massive flooding. In 2010, China, Russia and Brazil saw droughts that affected their food production. Oxfam says the world will see more of these issues if countries don't act to mitigate warming. </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Developed countries need to do more to cut emissions: Oxfam</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> Most research so far has focused on how</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> **__crop yields will change as a result of warming and drought__**</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">, the report says.</span>**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> But that’s not the only factor that is likely to threaten access to food for people around the world.</span>__****__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">“More frequent and extreme weather events will compound things by creating food shortages and price spikes and destabilizing markets, worsening the structural price rises that the models already predict. One need not rely on imagination to understand how this could play out for the world’s poorest people.”</span>__**







**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">We will isolate 3 scenarios </span>**



**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Scenario 1 – Hunger</span>**



**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Food prices are currently pushing food out of the reach for 3 billion people. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Thompson 11</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">The return of the food and energy crisis: structural problems and/or financial</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">speculation? Sean Thompson, November 2011 <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.4edu.info/images/a/ad/Food_and_energy_crisis_-_Sean_Thompson.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Global food prices have fallen slightly from their historic peak in February but a report by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, published in October 10, says that high,</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> **__unpredictable prices are likely to continue. The global food price index produced by the FAO reached a historic peak of 238 points in February, well above the peak of 213.5 reached in 2008.__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> Prices have since eased and in October the index registered 216 points. However</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> it is still 5% higher than in October 2010. In 2009, for the first time in human history, over a billion people were officially classified as living in hunger, while another two billion live in perpetual food insecurity. So today, despite unprecedented wealth existing in the world, over 40% of all human beings are either permanently malnourished or suffering from varying degrees of food insecurity</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">. </span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">And there is a moral obligation to share food – even if the result of the action is extinction.</span>**

**Watson 77**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">philosophy professor, Washington University, WORLD HUNGER AND MORAL OBLIGATION, 1977, pp. 118-9.</span>

**__One may even have to sacrifice one’s life__**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">or one’s nation </span>**__to be moral__**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">in situations where practical behavior would preserve it. For example, if a prisoner of war undergoing torture is to be a (perhaps dead) patriot even when reason tells him that collaboration will hurt no one, he remains silent. Similarly, </span>if one is to be moral, **__one distributes available food in equal shares even if everyone dies__**. That an action is necessary to save one’s life is no excuse for behaving<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">unpatriotically or </span>immorally<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">if one wishes to be a patriot or moral. No principle of morality absolves one of behaving immorally simply to save one’s life or nation. There is a strict analogy here between adhering to moral principles for the sake of being moral, and adhering to Christian principles for the sake of being Christian. </span>The moral world contains pits and lions, but **__one looks always to the highest light. The ultimate test always harks back to the highest principle – recant or die__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">The ultimate test always harks back to the highest principle – recant or die – and </span>**__it__** **__is pathetic to profess morality if one quits when the going gets rough__**.





**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Scenario 2 – Child soldiers</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">First, food insecurity is a driving force for child soldiers – 60% of child soldiers join for the purpose of escaping food insecurity.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Trudell 05</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Syracuse Journal of International Law and Commerce Fall, 2005 33 Syracuse J. Int'l L. & Com. 277 **LENGTH:** 22718 wordsARTICLE: FOOD SECURITY EMERGENCIES AND THE POWER OF EMINENT DOMAIN: A DOMESTIC LEGAL TOOL TO TREAT A GLOBAL PROBLEM **NAME:** Robert H. Trudell* **BIO:** * J.D. Candidate 2006, Syracuse University College of Law</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">Our concern of food insecurity is a concern for our future. The living embodiment of our future is our children, and food insecurity is one underlying cause of</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> a great tragedy that young people face in our world today: </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;">the rise of armies of child soldiers</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n60|n60]]</span>In his book on this disturbing topic, P.W. Singer describes the connection a swelling world population has with the degradation of the environment, the depletion of safe drinking water, and the reduction of land suitable for agriculture. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n61|n61]]</span> Mr. Singer notes that</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;"> a "third of all children in Africa suffer from severe hunger. By 2010, this figure may rise to as many as half of all African children." <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n62|n62]]</span> Africa is rife with zones of human conflict. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n63|n63]]</span> Indeed, it is ironic that on a continent with [*287] countries "fabulously rich in natural resources, including agriculture," there are so many hungry people. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n64|n64]]</span> The worst areas of violence in Africa currently witness armed groups totaling over an estimated 100,000 child soldiers; these are soldiers who are often as young as twelve years old.<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n65|n65]]</span></span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Many of these children are forced into service, but that is not always the case. </span>__**<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n66|n66]]</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Singer states that, in Africa,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 12pt;"> up to sixty percent of the child soldiers "volunteer" to join, largely due to the economic forces of hunger and poverty.<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n67|n67]]</span> For many of these children, becoming a soldier may be "the only way to guarantee regular meals, clothing, or medical attention." <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n68|n68]]</span>Placing this horrifying scenario into a global perspective, Singer notes a similar ratio of children soldiers enlist in the conflicts in East Asia. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n69|n69]]</span> The causes of this new element of global conflict are as complex as the causes of food security, and, sadly, in many ways the same. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n70|n70]]</span>Again and again, there is a link between the pain of poverty and the horror of chronic hunger, and a growing world population that exists in between the two.</span>__**





**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">And this impact outweighs the negative disadvantages on magnitude – more child soldiers are killed than terrorism, WMDs, or proliferation of nuclear weapons. This is both a short and long-term problem.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Achvarina and Reich 06</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">No Place to Hide Refugees, Displaced Persons, and the Recruitment of Child Soldiers</span>

<span style="background-color: initial; color: #660066; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.missouristate.edu/journals/international_security/v031/31.1achvarina.html#authbio1|Vera Achvarina]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.missouristate.edu/journals/international_security/v031/31.1achvarina.html#authbio2|Simon F. Reic]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">h </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">International Security</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> 31.1 (2006) 127-164 </span><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.missouristate.edu/journals/international_security/v031/31.1achvarina.html#top|//Vera Achvarina//]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> is a doctoral candidate at the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs (GSPIA) at the University of Pittsburgh. </span><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.missouristate.edu/journals/international_security/v031/31.1achvarina.html#top|//Simon F. Reich//]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> is Director of the Ford Institute for Human Security at the University of Pittsburgh and Professor of International Affairs at GSPIA.</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Child soldiering does not assume centrality on the West's security agenda, whose top priorities are terrorism, nuclear proliferation, and weapons of mass destruction. Nor is it a preoccupation of scholars in security studies. Yet despite its relatively low profile in both realms, child soldier recruitment is important because it involves the suffering and death of thousands of children every year—many more than are direct victims of terrorism or the use of weapons of mass destruction.</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> Concerns about the immorality of their recruitment and transgression of the rules of war might be regarded as self-evident. But to this consideration can be added several others, including the heightened exposure of naive children to the risks of death or injury in combat; the difficulty of rehabilitating child combatants; and the excessive cruelty inflicted by some child soldiers on their victims. It has long been understood that socialization into violence in youth creates a generation of violent adults, perpetuating a vicious cycle of instability within countries. Now, according to the aforementioned media reports, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">child soldiering has become intertwined with terrorism, suggesting that the increasing use of child soldiers poses a long-term threat to the health and security of societies far beyond the borders of the war-torn, fragile states in which these civil and ethnic conflicts take place. If their rehabilitation is difficult but necessary for the future stability of societies, then prevention is arguably even more vital and less costly.</span>__**





**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Scenario 3 – Genocide</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">First, food insecurity sets the stage for genocide – the longest and best study on Rwanda proves a sizable connection.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Trudell 05</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Syracuse Journal of International Law and Commerce Fall, 2005 33 Syracuse J. Int'l L. & Com. 277 **LENGTH:** 22718 wordsARTICLE: FOOD SECURITY EMERGENCIES AND THE POWER OF EMINENT DOMAIN: A DOMESTIC LEGAL TOOL TO TREAT A GLOBAL PROBLEM **NAME:** Robert H. Trudell* **BIO:** * J.D. Candidate 2006, Syracuse University College of Law</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Diamond based much of his conclusion on his own observations, and from a study by Dr. Jean-Phillipe </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Platteau and</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> Catherine </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Andre,</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> both of whom</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">conducted a five-year-long "in-depth case study of a highly densely populated area in northwest Rwanda," from 1988 until 1993, just prior to the start of the genocidal killings. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n84|n84]]</span> Rwanda is one of the most densely populated regions of the world. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n85|n85]]</span> To address its food security needs, Rwandan policy was to clear all the available land for agriculture.</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n86|n86]]</span> It is also a country with a long history of ethnic violence between the two dominant ethnic tribes: Hutu and Tutsi. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n87|n87]]</span> The cycle of this ethnic violence is outside the scope of this Note, however one result of the switch from Tutsi to Hutu political dominance in the early 1990s was the huge displacement of Tutsis, "by death or flight," and more land for an expanding food security need. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n88|n88]]</span> Even still,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> the tremendous population growth meant that the lands available for agriculture were soon spent, leaving only the lands in the Rwandan National Parks system free from cultivation. </span>__****__<span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">n89</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">An aggravating factor throughout sub-Saharan African deforestation is inefficiency in farming, a characteristic true of Rwandan agriculture</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n90|n90]]</span> </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">There, few modern-day methods are utilized. The farmers [*290] still use hand tools and rely upon animal manure for fertilizer. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n91|n91]]</span>Additionally, sub-Saharan African farming is largely based on "self-sufficiency," that is, farmers in the countries of the region (Rwanda and Kenya are two examples) limit their cultivation to crops with little export value. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n92|n92]]</span> The climate of Rwanda, however, is unlike most of sub-Saharan Africa. For instance, the climate is more predictable with regular rainfall, which may explain the immense population density. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n93|n93]]</span> With such a climate, self-sufficiency agriculture is counterintuitive; one would think Rwanda could have a strong agricultural economy. Growing crops for the world market could help treat the poverty endemic to this region of sub-Saharan Africa. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n94|n94]]</span> Among other findings, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Andre and Platteau's study showed that between 1988 and 1993 there was widespread unequal land distribution in Rwanda leading to a steep rise in the numbers of people in the "vulnerable sections of the population," that is, those living in poverty</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n95|n95]]</span> These segments of the population were too numerous to simply become invisible, homeless segments of Rwandan society. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n96|n96]]</span> The "vicious cycle of poverty" reached across generations where the landless were led to despair and destroyed the traditional system of marriages.<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n97|n97]]</span> Rwandan courts and other methods of adjudicating land conflicts could not cope with the sheer numbers of disaffected people. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">The social system in Rwanda began to breakdown. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n98|n98]]</span></span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">The Andre and Platteau study began in 1988, and even then, "due to extreme scarcity of land and to the harsh realities of struggle for bare survival, tensions had developed to such an extent that the social fabric was at risk of falling asunder." <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n99|n99]]</span> With hindsight, we know this risk was realized, and nearly one million people were slaughtered, largely due to long-held ethnic animus, but certainly food insecurity played its deadly part in the tragedy. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.missouristate.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1323056672782&returnToKey=20_T13435938813&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.522091.982016624#n100|n100]]</span></span>__**





**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">And genocide outweighs omnicide.</span>**

**Lang 03**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Act and idea in the Nazi genocide By Berel Lang professor of Philosophy at Wesleyan, 2003, pg 12-13</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Before considering further the two primary factors in the concept of genocide (the specification of the group and the intention related to its destruction), it is important to recognize the implied relation between these factors, on the hand, and the likely agents of genocide, on the other. That genocide entails the destruction of a group does not imply that the act of genocide itself must be the act of a group; but the practical implementation of a design for genocide would almost necessarily be so complex as to assure this. Admittedly; the same technological advances that make genocide increasingly possible as a collective action also have increased the possibility that an individual acting alone could initiate the process. </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">When the push of a single button can produce cataclysmic effects, we discover an order of destruction-“omnicide</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">”</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">-even larger than genocide.)'1'</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> **__But the opprobrium attached to the term “genocide” seems also to have the connotation of a corporate action--as if this act or sequence of acts would be a lesser fault, easier to understand if not to excuse if one person rather than a group were responsible for it. A group (we suppose) would be bound by a public moral code; decisions made would have been reached collectively; and the culpability of individual intentions would be multiplied proportionately.__** </span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Admittedly, corporate responsibility is sometimes invoked in order to diminish (or at least to obscure) individual responsibility; so, for example, the “quagmire” effect that was appealed to retrospectively by defenders of the United States’ role in Vietnam. But</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> **__for genocide, the likelihood of its corporate origins seems to accentuate its moral enormity: a large number of individual, intentional acts would have to be committed and the connections among them also affirmed in onder to produce the extensive act. Unlike other corporate acts that might be not only decided on but carried out by a single person or small group of persons, genocide in its scope seems necessarily to require collaboration by a relatively large number of agents acting both collectively and individually.__**</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Plan solves – guaranteed use of satellites in Famine Early Warning systems can reverse the food insecurity caused by climate change.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Briscoe 09</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">John Briscoe Gordon McKay Professor of the Practice of Environment Engineering and En- vironmental Health at Harvard University. Water and AgricultureImplications for Development and Growth Essays from the CSIS and SAIS Year of Water Conference November 2009http://csis.org/files/publication/091104_Peterson_Water&Agri_WEB.pdf//</span>

//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">As Brown and Funk have stated,</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> “Food insecurity is likely to increase under climate change, unless early warning systems and development programs are used more effectively.”</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">11 </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Advances in remote sensing techniques,</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> land surface modeling, and data assimilation for water resources and agri- cultural assessments</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> must be fully and readily integrated into systems such as the Famine Early Warning System Network. Recognizing this need, NASA is working with its agency partners</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> at USGS, USAID, AFWA, NOAA, and USDA </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">to transition and integrate the techniques embodied in our Land Information System</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">12 </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">with the Famine Early Warning System Network and USDA-FAS systems. By merging our efforts at satellite observation, modeling, and data assimilation, we can significantly advance our ability to understand, predict, and respond to stressed water resources and the associated impacts and feedbacks on agricultural productivity through a comprehensive and integrated approach</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">.</span>//



//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Additionally, having NASA do the plan outside the constraints of congress will guarantees a steady course without regards to congressional budgets.</span>**//

//**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Hsu 11</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">By Jeremy Hsu </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How NASA could get its groove back</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Insight Labs wants space agency control its destiny based on authority, achievements<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45515176/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/#.TtpTb3bSCiU|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45515176/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/#.TtpTb3bSCiU]]</span></span>**//

//**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">By setting its own grand strategy, NASA could better hold a steady course despite new presidential administrations or changing budgets. That would buck the trend of allowing congressionally-approved budgets to decide spaceflight missions and goals. "NASA has an opportunity that they didn't know they had,"</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> Leitner explained." They currently judge their value in the world based on budgetary guidelines; that doesn't quite resonate with public perception or narrative."</span>__**//





//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">And NASA’s funding for Famine Early Warning Systems is key to end the suffering associated with food insecurity.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Edwin 07</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">This evidence quotes </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Molly Brown of NASAs Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 13pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Satellite Data Can Warn Of Famine<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.blogspan.org/blogs/permalinks/8-2007/satellite-data-can-warn-of-famine.html]]</span></span>//

//**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Brown used long-term data from sensors on NASA-built satellites to gauge the density of local plant life, an indicator of the strength of the crop. From space, sensors pick up reflections from the ground to determine the grounds greenness and enable scientists to estimate the amount of rainfall. Those data in turn may be used to estimate the amount of grain that crops will produce</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">. Brown combined the satellite data and climate variables with the price model to create maps of millet prices covering a complete area.</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> With these maps decision makers can predict price changes, food availability and ultimately food insecurity.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> Food prices are not determined solely by human action. Climate variables affect about 20 percent of the process of market pricing, as per the study's co-author Jorge Pinzon, a research scientist and mathematician at Goddard.</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> This is a factor that decision makers often do not take into account when analyzing food security</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">, Pinzon said. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">"It is critical to include climate and environmental variables in food security planning when piecing together all of the forces that come together to create famine," said Pinzon. "This model can help officials better understand the role that climate plays in food availability and pricing, and also in famine warning when applied to a real-time planning effort". Brown believes that information provided by this new technique can aid organizations that are part of the U.S. Agency for International Development's (USAID) Famine Early Warning System to stem suffering that occurs every year from food crises. Brown hopes that her method, funded by NASA </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">and USAID, may eventually </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">help the farmers </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">in Niger more effectively</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> plan what to grow and when to grow it to earn a living wage.</span>__**//









//<span class="credits">**And we must act now – even small delays can mean the difference in food insecurity due to the nature of food delivery.**</span>//

//<span class="credits">**Collins 09**</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rory Collins NASA's Langley Research Center NASA Applied Sciences Projects Improve Famine Predictions Worldwide 06.02.09<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/topics/earth/features/famine.html]]</span></span>//

//**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">One of the major issues encountered by humanitarian and local government officials is that it can sometimes take up to six months from the time that assistance is approved to the time it is delivered to those in need. This delay means that the budgetary decisions that precede humanitarian intervention must be made months before the actual onset of the famine. Earth observations can contribute to policy makers' understanding of hazards over years, seasons and months, giving them the ability to anticipate and plan for potential famines</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">. John Haynes, program manager for the Applied Sciences Public Health Program, notes that integrating timely NASA data into FEWS NET is especially pertinent today, given that </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">seemingly minute changes in climate conditions can affect an entire season of crops. </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">"Enhancing public health decision-making through remote sensing, as in </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">the FEWS NET project, is particularly relevant due to the threat of global climate change," says Haynes, "Climate change may exacerbate food insecurity in the 21st Century from more frequent episodes of drought or flooding, depending on the region."</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">The international humanitarian aid community continues to benefit from NASA's Earth observations and modeling capabilities. The FEWS NET project demonstrates the linkages that can be made between Earth observations and the thousands of people facing food security challenges every year.</span>//





//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Additionally, funding FEWS can provide resiliency against famine. Empirically it helped in Haiti. </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Porter 11</span>**//

//<span style="background-color: initial; color: #0000cd; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://allafrica.com/eastafrica/|East Africa:]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Data On Food Security Helps Ease Human Toll of Famine Charlene Porter</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">12 August 2011 </span>**__<span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://allafrica.com/stories/201108121352.html]]</span>__**//

//**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">FEWS NET also provides data in support of USAID's effort to establish greater resilience against famine in the long term. In a region where grazing animals are a significant part of the agricultural sector, Scicchitano said, assistance programs are in place to give herders greater capacity to sustain their animals through drought. FEWS NET was created in the aftermath of a disastrous famine in the early 1980s that hit the continent from West Africa to Ethiopia. The organization monitors about 30 famine-prone countries around the world and collects mountains of data from diverse sources to constantly evaluate levels of food security. FEWS NET alerts give national governments, international agencies and donor nations information they need to make life-saving preparations.</span>__**//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scicchitano said FEWS NET accumulates real-time data about weather, crops and livestock to track the course of food security. He describes satellite images collected by NASA that show analysts more about the crops than farmers may know themselves. "It shows us midway through the crop season, how are those crops developing? Are we looking at a normal year? Are we looking at a year when rains have failed altogether, or is it an excellent year or somewhere in between?" he said. The analysts also study people and families: what they eat, where they grow it, how they buy it and what might happen if food supplies are disrupted.</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Understanding the array of data that contributes to food security or the lack of it has helped ease the toll of widespread hunger, whether it results from a failed growing season or a natural disaster such as the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. Despite widespread destruction and homelessness, famine did not occur in that disaster because a targeted humanitarian response, informed by FEWS NET analysis, helped meet emergency needs in the Caribbean nation.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Just as FEWS NET grew out of a disaster, Scicchitano said, the analysis FEWS NET conducts today will create a stronger body of data to plan for food security in the future. It is widely acknowledged that global agriculture must step up production in the decades ahead if the food needs of growing populations are to be met. Scicchitano said achieving that goal will require well-founded decisions about which investments might produce the greatest yields for the future. "If we can make good investments, we can combat hunger," Scicchitano said, "and FEWS NET can contribute to that."</span>__**//





//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Finally, effectively famine early warning system solves the alternate causes of food instability – specifically the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index, which is a uniquely NASA space tool, allows longitudinal comparison. This provides the time to solve food insecurity.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Voiland 09</span>**//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adam Voiland NASA's Goddard Space Flight Cente, </span><span style="color: #232323; font-size: 8pt;">NDVI: Satellites Could Help Keep Hungry Populations Fed as Climate Changes 9.15.09http:</span>//www.nasa.gov/topics/earth/features/obscure_data.html *<span style="color: #232323; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Normalized Difference Vegetation Index</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Currently the best data for NDVI measurements come from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) instruments on NASA's Terra and Aqua satellites; earlier data came from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) instruments deployed on NOAA polar orbiting meteorological satellites. </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Since chlorophyll -- the green pigment that plants use to turn sunlight into carbohydrates and hence energy -- absorbs visible light, healthy plants reflect less red light and therefore have a higher NDVI than those with sparse or unhealthy leaves. On Tucker's maps, the sparsely vegetated areas of the Sahara and the Sahel region have NDVI values near zero. The dense jungles of Central Africa have an NDVI closer to 1, the highest value. "It's a very simple and elegant measurement, just two channels of information," said Assaf Anyamba, a Goddard scientist who uses NDVI to research climate variability and vector-borne diseases. "We now have almost 29 years of NDVI documenting global land-based photosynthesis." **Keeping Food on the Table** </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">NDVI is a remarkably versatile measurement, but monitoring the global food supply has emerged as one of its particularly important uses. By comparing NDVI from one year to previous years, scientists can see tell-tale signs that crops are healthy and vigorous or suffering from drought, insect infestation, or some other problem. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">The largest user of NDVI data is the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which monitors agricultural production worldwide with a focus on 15 key crops, including wheat, corn, soy beans, and rice. FAS estimates agricultural production to determine the market rate for commodities, the foundation of the economy in both developed and developing countries. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">The</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. Agency for International Development's Famine Early Warning Systems Network </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">(FEWS NET) uses NDVI as its primary tool for anticipating food shortages and failed harvests. FEWS NET provides near real-time data to 20 African countries -- as well as Guatemala, Haiti, and Afghanistan -- about the risks of famine based on NDVI and complementary environmental data.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Satellite data alone cannot cure the world of famine, Brown notes, but systems like</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">FEWS NET can buy critical time for governments and relief organizations to react when droughts, wars, and infestations strike the food supply. </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">NDVI has proven particularly useful in some of the world’s most contentious hotspots. In 2008, the FAS, FEWS NET, and a number of other partners used NDVI to monitor wheat yields in Iraq and Afghanistan through a persistent drought that led to the worst yields in a decade. Closer to home, NDVI is also used in certain states as a basis for a novel crop insurance program managed by the USDA. And it's used by ranchers in the American Southwest, as part of the "Range View" monitoring network, to locate the best areas for cattle to forage. **Solution for a Hungry, Crowded World** he United Nations projects Earth’s population will surpass 9 billion people by 2050, up from the current 6.8 billion. Since the 1990s, commodity prices have risen and the amount of cultivated land per person has declined. The result: many poor communities are ending up with less access to locally grown food even as global food supplies are increasing. Already, researchers estimate that 30 percent of the rural populations of developing countries lack reliable access to food because of poverty. Meanwhile, models suggest that climate change could create an El-Niño like effect in the Indian Ocean that causes more droughts in key agricultural areas of the Americas, Africa, and Asia Such findings cause Brown and others to worry that areas already struggling with food shortages may face even graver problems in the future. But she also remains hopeful that scientific and technological tools like </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">NDVI can provide critical information to help us blunt the worst of the problems. Improving early prediction systems may be as important in preventing famine as improving farming techniques and food aid policies for ensuring a sustainable future</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">Contention 3 – Pen drills are useful</span>**



**First economic interconnectedness stops great power wars. Trends point affirmative.**

**Easterbrook 05**

**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Easterbrook,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> senior fellow at The New Republic, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">05</span> **[Greg, “EXPLAINING 15 YEARS OF DIMINISHING VIOLENCE — The End of War?”,**<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://democraticpeace.wordpress.com/2009/05/31/easterbrook-end-of-war/|**http://democraticpeace.wordpress.com/2009/05/31/easterbrook-end-of-war/**]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is even a chance that </span>**__the ascent of economics to its pinnacle position in modern life reduces war. Nations interconnected by trade may be less willing to fight each other__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">: If China and the United States ever fought, both nations might see their economies collapse. It is true that, in the decades leading up to World War I, some thought rising trade would prevent war. But today’s circumstances are very different from those of the Fin de siècle [turn of the century]. Before World War I, great powers still maintained the grand illusion that there could be war without general devastation; World Wars I and II were started by governments that thought they could come out ahead by fighting.</span>**__Today, no major government appears to believe that war is the best path to nationalistic or monetary profit; trade seems much more promising__****__.__**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The late economist Julian Simon proposed that, in a knowledge-based economy, people and their brainpower are more important than physical resources, and thus the lives of a country’s citizens are worth more than any object that might be seized in war. Simon’s was a highly optimistic view — he assumed governments are grounded in reason — and yet there is a chance this vision will be realized. Already, most Western nations have achieved a condition in which citizens’ lives possess greater economic value than any place or thing an army might gain by combat. As knowledge-based economics spreads throughout the world, physical resources may mean steadily less, while life means steadily more. That’s, well, enlightenment. In his 1993 book, A History of Warfare, the military historian John Keegan recognized the early signs that combat and armed conflict had entered a cycle of decline. War “may well be ceasing to commend itself to human beings as a desirable or productive, let alone rational, means of reconciling their discontents,” Keegan wrote. Now there are 15 years of positive developments supporting the idea. Fifteen years is not all that long. Many things could still go badly wrong; there could be ghastly surprises in store. But, for the moment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__the trends have never been more auspicious:__** **__Swords really are being beaten into plowshares and spears into pruning hooks. The world ought to take notice__**.



**Observation satellites will be used for cooperation, not competition.**

**Launiusr 11**

<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Roger, Ph. D. Division of Space History, Smithsonian Institution, International Competition versus Cooperation in Space <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://launiusr.wordpress.com/2011/03/23/international-competition-versus-cooperation-in-space/|March 23, 2011]][[http://launiusr.wordpress.com/2011/03/23/international-competition-versus-cooperation-in-space/]]</span></span>



<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">**__This suggests that international competition has not been the sole driving force in the U.S. space effort__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">, and presidential leadership in undertaking it. Sometimes the successes of a program turn out to be more than envisioned, and such is the case with such U.S. space cooperative ventures as ISS. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">In the passage of years into the twenty‑first century the international use of satellites</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;"> for telephones and for television and for guidance of ships at sea and </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">for weather observation</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';"> and for managing the Earth’s natural resources has made a large difference in the shape of world affairs, in bringing nations together. </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps the most important change in spaceflight has been a steady movement from U.S./U.S.S.R. competition to widespread international cooperation. To be sure, in NASA’s statutory statement of 1958 a mandate appeared for international cooperation: “The Congress hereby declares that it is the policy of the United States that activities in space should be devoted to peaceful purposes for the benefit of all mankind.” President Kennedy asked the nations to “do the big things together.” The vision of a slain President nearly fifty years ago, for</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">true international cooperation may yet be the future of space exploration.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">I would like to think so.</span>







**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic';">And no trade-off disadvantages – the reason for trade-offs in the current NASA budget is congressional directive. We avoid this.</span>**

**Anderson 11**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zark, November 16, 2011 2012 Budget Challenges at NASA</span>

<span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.zarkanderson.com/2011/11/2012-budget-challenges-at-nasa.html]]</span>

**__This new fiscal year which began in October is the first time in 30 years that NASA will spend a major proportion of its budget on the space shuttle__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In this new phase for the space agency, Congress tells NASA to finish space telescope and build a new rocket.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a warning bell to come, Congress has cut almost $1B from the requested $19B budget. At the same time, NASA has a troubled program - the James Webb Space Telescope that continues experiencing cost overruns and schedule delays. </span>**__With Congress' mandate__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to proceed with the space telescope, </span>**__many of the smaller NASA science projects are at risk.__** **The Houston Chronicle** **__worries that two science missions to Mars in 2016 1nd 2018 are already affected by the new budget. Adding funding pressure is the second mandate from Congress to proceed with the Orion Space Capsule and its launch vehicle, The Space Launch System.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a signal to NASA and industry, the US will be de-emphasizing the sponsorship of space taxis by halving the 2012 funding. But it appears that Congress is signaling to industry that it believes the new mission of NASA is big projects like the space telescope and manned space flight. </span>









**Additionally, the affirmative’s use of geospatial mapping to understand geographic phenomena solves the epistemological and ontological questions that arise as a result of their criticism. The use of the mapper,the availability of the initial data and the qualification of differing viewpoints allows the affirmative to test the multidirectionality of the criticism.**

**Hallisey 05**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cartographic Visualization: An Assessment and Epistemological Review* Elaine J. Hallisey Director of the GIS Team at the Office of Health Information and Policy, Division of Public Health, at the Georgia Department of Human Resources, Georgia State University<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.coss.fsu.edu/geography/stallins/geog/Readings/hallisey.pdf]]</span></span>

**__The two primary aims of this article were to demonstrate the value of cartographic visualization as an essential part of a comprehensive analysis of geographic phenomena and to show that it can be undertaken using different epistemological approaches__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A brief history of cartographic visualization addressed the concepts of the map communication model and graphicacy, which is the ability to effectively ommunicate and understand relationships through visual aids that cannot be expressed solely with text, spoken words, or mathematical notation. MacEachren’s characterization of cartographic visualization is the result of the evolution of these earlier concepts and includes both public realm map communication as well as private realm interactive visual analysis. Several specific examples of the visual analysis of spatial data, among innumerable others, demonstrated the value of cartographic visualization in the study of geographic phenomena, particularly for interactive analysis. As acknowledged**__,__** </span>**__it is more difficult to determine the negative effects of not using cartographic visualization in the analysis of spatial data, but when results in scientific research on spatial data conflict, cartographic visualization may help to clarify understanding__****__. With regard to defining the epistemological approach of cartographic visualization, technological determinism must be avoided. The process of cartographic visualization takes on the epistemological approach of the researcher, so it may incorporate positivist perspectives, realist perspectives, or other modes of knowledge acquisition and production__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Criticisms of cartographic visualization come from various epistemological standpoints. Social theorists tend to focus on public-realm map communication, claiming it to be subjective, ethnocentric, and culturally produced, thereby helping to maintain the status quo with respect to power relationships. Social theorists have called for greater democratization, which, in fact, is occurring in cartography and GIS today. Quantitative positivists agree that cartographic visualization is subjective, but many also argue it is descriptive and inductive and, therefore, inadequate for robust analysis. Is objectivity truly attainable? Educated in a decidedly positivist environment with current leanings toward a more realist perspective, I would say </span>**__there is some subjectivity inherent in all research; in choosing which data to analyze, which methods of analysis to perform, and in how results are interpreted. It is true that cartographic visualization is inductive, but falsification in the modern scientific method also involves some inductive reasoning, as discussed. Some cartographic visualization may be descriptive or qualitative, but it is useful for seeing patterns and relationships and sometimes drives the direction of research, especially when visualizing data in the private realm. As noted earlier in the article, the high levels of humanmap interaction in private-realm cartographic visualization engender a more complete understanding of the spatial data. The individual researcher has access to the data source, not just final production maps, and may generate multiple views, using different algorithms, of the same data__**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">For example, in interpolating a surface of mean minimum temperature from sample points for a study area, the researcher has the option of using inverse distance weighting, spline, or kriging, among other geostatistical methods. Some methods are better than others, depending upon the type of data, the distribution of the sample points, and other factors. Additionally, techniques for estimating error exist. The researcher also has the option of creating a contour map or a gridded surface to visualize the data. The patterns revealed among various layers of data in the cartographic visualizations could suggest a direction for the research process. An astute researcher uses cartographic visualization techniques throughout the analysis of spatial data and is intimately involved in the mapping process, either by conducting his or her own cartographic visualization or by working closely with those who are performing the cartographic visualization. Employing a mapping technician who is unfamiliar with the topic under study to decide the most suitable way to map the data would certainly be detrimental to the research. Employing a cartographer to map results after the analysis is also unfavorable in that the opportunity is missed to interactively and comprehensively investigate the spatial data. In conclusion,</span> **__no matter the epistemological or ontological considerations, it is best to come at any problem from many different perspectives. A single method or approach may not be the best in all cases and could be limited in most. The incorporation of qualitative and quantitative information, text, and numbers, as well as thoughtful cartographic visualization, leads to a more complete understanding of geographic data. In conjunction with text, spoken words, and mathematics, cartographic visualization completes the metaphor of Balchin and Coleman. Modifying their words, in spatial research, graphicacy__** **__<span style="font-family: AdvJansonT-I,sans-serif;">must </span>__****__be ‘‘the fourth ace in the pack__****__.’’__**
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;"><span style="font-size: 1.4em;">**<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">Liberty / Heritage Hall - Solar Propulsion Aff</span>**</span></span>== 
Same as [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Marshfield (MO) - Jamie Atkison & Avery Day|Marshfield AD]]

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]