[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Contact info:</span>= 
Iqraz Nanji - <span style="background-color: initial;">[[mailto:iqraz.nanji@barstowschool.org|iqraz.nanji@barstowschool.org]]</span>
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: </span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should give recognition, certification, and full legal support to extra-terrestrial property ownership claims by any private entity based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>

===Advantage 1: Econ=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured</span>**
Ty <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span>, J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>, JPW
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Currently, most ventures are performed in...</span>__</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">claim- of-right to the final product.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conflicting interpretations of the OST have brought private space development to a halt – the aff fills a vacuum in current space legislation and causes massive commercial space development</span>**
Alan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and</span> Douglas <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jobes</span>, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]], Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span> Number 1, pg. 47-52, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]], JPW
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">IV. RECOGNITION OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP If...</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">on natural and civil law.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Depression is coming now – no growth will occur for three years – this card __decimates__ their takeouts</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Babones 1/27</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Salvatore Babones is a senior lecturer in sociology and social policy at the University of Sydney and an associate fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies; “Good News and Bad News about GDP Growth”; January 27, 2012; http://www.ips-dc.org/blog/good_news_and_bad_news_about_gdp_growth) CJC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">__Americans are in for a long__...</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">for a long, hard slog.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space</span>**
Ezra J. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reinstein</span>, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span>, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Space offers the potential for...</span>____<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">a long time to come.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Jobes 5</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">(Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” //Space Times,// volume: 44, May/June, p. 10)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">And what would motivate Congress...be a space construction boom."</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This independently causes the __second Industrial Revolution__ that expands the economy into multiple new sectors</span>**
Ty <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span>, J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>, JPW
The environment of space is...kind of change is needed.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline causes global war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> – Director of CTR</span>**
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods...debate and deserves more attention.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griswold 5</span> (Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, //Free Trade,// 12.29.5, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282)
Many causes lie behind the...with its own peace dividend.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transition causes wars—no alternative</span>****
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gubrud 97 (</span>Mark Avrum. Center for superconductivity research. [[http://www.foresight.org/COnferences/MNT05/Papers/Gubrud/index.html]])
With molecular manufacturing, international trade...__some form of nationalistic imperialism.__

===Advantage 2: OST=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Outer Space Treaty is on the cusp of failure. Ambiguities have made the treaty weak, and shifting international opinions on space property rights have made it unpopular. The outdated treaty makes private investment impossible and a mass exodus from the treaty likely.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinn 8 </span>(Adam G., J.D./M.B.A. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,”//Minnesota Journal of International Law,// Summer)
__Because__ the drafters of the...__substantive set of space laws.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Commercial activity in space makes mass OST withdrawal inevitable in the status quo – countries will withdraw to avoid property rights questions</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinkin 4 </span>(Sam, Ph.D. economist, July 12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/179/1)
__The Outer Space Treaty may__...to grow up after all.

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">One withdrawal from the OST causes others to follow and kills development.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabrynowicz 7</span> (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, October 22, http://rescommunis.wordpress.com/2007/10/22/the-outer-space-treaty-still-relevant-and-important-after-all-these-years/)
Finally, the motive for the...__political will to do so.__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Total OST withdrawal undermines the foundation of the entire space treaty regime – clarification over property rights is required to avoid legal instability.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabrynowicz 5 </span>(Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf)
__As regards to property rights...eliminating the existing legal structure.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OST consultation process is key to dissuading weaponizers and avoiding misunderstandings from escalating to conflict.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marder 8</span> (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe
Finally, __the most valuable benefit...space is a present threat.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weaponizing space prompts Russia and China to put their weapons on hair trigger alert – leads to high risk of nuclear terrorism, accidental war, and unauthorized launch.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis, 04</span>– Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM), Jeffrey, July, 2004, “What if Space Were Weaponized?: Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios”, pg. 22-24, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf, CDI)
__The Russian's already continue to...China to do the opposite.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span> (Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])
__The first manmade existential risk__...encounter in the 21st century.

===**Solvency**=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Now is key to fill the gaps in the space treaty with national laws like the plan – empirically solves in space.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabrynowicz 5 </span>(Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf)
__The__ second __option for modifying__...__that quits forfeits__ the game.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan would be modeled internationally – national law is key – empirics </span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alan </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Douglas </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jobes</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). </span>** Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW</span>
__Some experts argue that the...____the de facto international standard__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 93</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan sets a global precedent</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JPW</span>
__The problems with international methods...____pending some agreed-upon international regime__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." n372</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US’s position as a leader in space means that our national policies are the main influence on international legal frameworks.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Porras – 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Daniel A. Porras, J.D., Associate Officer International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, focused on International Land and Outer Space Law; “The "Common Heritage" of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”; California Western International Law Journal; 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143; Fall, 2006; Lexis) CJC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Man has been exploring his...</span>__frameworks are adopted or rejected__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No international law barriers – even major haters of the aff agree</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gangale 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas Gangale, same one they are reading; This is written in response to a review of his book The Development of Outer Space: Soveriegnty and Property Rights in International Space Law; “Convenient Untruths From a Space Priest”; 02 SEPTEMBER 2009; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://tgangale1.blogspot.com/2009/09/convenient-untruths-from-space-priest.html]]</span>) CJC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Taylor Dinerman's review of The...</span>__was codified in the Moon Agreement.__

=Negative= 
==Past Strategies== 
===KCKCC=== 
Rd 2 - (bmd)
1NC - T-Space, USSF CP, Airpower DA, Heidegger, Politics
2NR - USSF CP, Airpower DA

Rd 3 - (shuttles)
1NC - T-Space, SLS Tradeoff, Politics, Heidegger
2NR - Heidegger

Rd 6 - (mars col)
1NC - T-Space, Politics, Coercion DA, Tax Exemption CP
2NR - T-Space

Aff:
Rd 1: 2NR - Launches DA
Rd 4: 2NR - T-increase/development
Rd 5: 2NR - Politics

===GBX=== 
Rd 1 - (bmd)
1NC - T-Space, USSF CP, Airpower DA, Heidegger, Politics
2NR - T-Space

Rd 3 - (aehf)
1NC - T-Space, USSF CP, Airpower DA, Cosmodolphins, Politics
2NR - T-Space

Rd 6 - (bmd)
1NC - T-Space, USSF CP, Airpower DA, Heidegger, Politics
2NR - Heidegger

Aff:
Rd 2: 2NR - T-development
Rd 4: 2NR - Politics
Rd 5: 2NR - T-its

===Ohio Valley=== 
Rd 2 - (SBSP)
1NC - T-Space, LSP PIC, OST DA, Airpower DA, Politics, Heidegger
2NR - T-Space

Rd 3 - (DSCOVR/Racism bad)
1NC - T-Substantial, Ukraine CP, Politics, Heidegger
2NR - Ukraine CP, Politics

Rd 6 - (SBSP)
1NC - T-Space, LSP PIC, OST DA, Politics, Heidegger
2NR - LSP PIC, OST DA

Aff:
Rd 1: 2NR - ? (I think it was T-its)
Rd 4: 2NR - Politics
Rd 5: 2NR - Politics

===Westside=== 
Rd 1 - (DSCOVR)
1NC - T-Substantial, Ukraine CP, Politics, Heidegger
2NR - T-Substantial, Inherency

Rd 4 - (gender)
1NC - T-Space, ESA CP, Politics, Female Mission CP, Borders K, Scifi K, Heidegger
2NR - ESA CP, Politics

Rd 6 - (whitey on the moon)
1NC - Silence K
2NR - Silence K

Aff:
Rd 2: 2NR - T-development
Rd 3: 2NR - Russian Aerospace DA, Biotech/Disease turn
Rd 5: 2NR - China Brain Drain DA, Biotech/Disease turn

===GMNDC=== 
Rd 1 - (debris)
1NC - T-Beyond, USSF CP, Airpower DA, Politics
2NR- T-Beyond

Rd 3 - (sps)
1NC - T-Space, Heidegger, LSP CP, GEO DA
2NR - T-Space

Rd 5 - (bmd)
1NC - T-Space, USSF CP, Airpower DA, Politics, Rogue states turn, Russia first strike turn, Middle east prolif turn
2NR - USSF CP

Aff:
Rd 2: 2NR - Astropolitics K
Rd 4: 2NR - Coercion DA
Rd 6: 2NR - Debris DA w/ ozone turn
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]