<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>
=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Counterplans</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reverse China Condition on Human Rights</span>== 
</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Text: The United States Federal Government should threaten to [plan] unless the People’s Republic of China discloses and acknowledges all accounts of its human rights abuses in the region and follow regulations on human rights set by the United States Federal Government. The United States Federal Government abides by the outcome of the condition.**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**U.S. human rights Credibility low now- Bahrain violence destroying it, and Obama is perceived to be taking a passive approach. Pressuring solves.**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Douglas 11** [Political Writer for McClatchy Washington Bureau. “Activists Decry U.S. Silence on Bahrain’s Crackdown.” McClatchey Newspaper. Accessed 8/30/11. http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2011/05/13/v-print/114197/activists-decry-us-silence-on.html]</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Human rights activists at a congressional hearing…rights issues throughout the region."</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The Counterplan raises human rights credibility- shifts U.S. policy from strategically irrelevant countries to China.**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Human Rights Watch 08** [International human rights publication. 11/14/08. “U.S. Human Rights Agenda For the New Administration.” HRW. Accessed 9/2/11. http://www.hrw.org/news/2008/11/14/us-human-rights-agenda-new-administration]</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For eight years, the Bush administration claimed…and repression in Tibet and Xinjiang.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Human rights credibility key to heg**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Sen 5** (Sankar, Former Director, Indian National Police Academy, The Statesman, 4-5, Lexis)</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There are other sources of strength. The US…and may gradually affect American pre-eminence.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Global nuclear war**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Khalilzad 95** (Zalmay, RAND Corporation, Losing The Moment? Washington Quarterly, Vol 18, No 2, p. 84)</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Under the third option, the United States…a multipolar balance of power system.</span></span>
=<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">SPS Neg</span></span>= 
==<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GEO DA</span></span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc</span></span>=== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**SPS would be placed in Geosynchronous Earth Orbit**</span></span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**NSSO 2008** </span>National Space Security Office, Space-Based Solar Power Study Group, Ad Astra, “Strategic Importance” Spring 2008, pg. 28, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf</span></span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Enter the four-decade-old…conventional energy systems.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**GEO is highly competitive orbit for satellites—the aff forces competition**</span></span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Post 2006**,</span> Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, UK, postnote, December, Number 273, “Military uses of space,” http://www.parliament.uk/documents/upload/postpn273.pdf</span></span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Satellites orbit the earth at anything…competition for orbital slots than in GEO.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Competition gives way to many potential space conflicts**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Klotz 99**, Frank G. Jan 1999, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4</span></span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The scramble for geosynchronous…infrastructure-is a case in point.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**The terminal impact is extinction**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Mitchell, et al. 01** – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A buildup of space weapons…destructive military conflict ever seen.</span></span>