=====**Email us with any requests - jFidler6@gmail.com, layniestephens@gmail.com**===== 
=Aff= 



===__Lexington - Cosomology 1AC__=== 

**Over 2,000 years ago, a collective group of human beings created the Ancient Library of Alexandria. The city itself was a sprawling metropolis with diverse citizens and a hunger for knowledge. Alexandria sat as the hub for human collaboration and understanding. “On any given day, its harbors were thronged with merchants, scholars and tourists.” The library held the greatest accumulation of knowledge in early human history. To our horror, the great library of Alexandria burned at the hands of fanatics and power hungry leaders before the year 270 AD, followed by centuries known as “the dark ages.”**
Carl Sagan, Astronomer, Philosopher, Scientist. COSMOS (1980). Pg. 190

__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">Here clearly were the seeds of the modern world....</span>__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;"> __there was nobody to stop them.__</span>

**As debaters, we learn that the destruction of Alexandria represented an aversion to education and a denial of knowledge. Our participation in debate feeds our skepticism, and teaches us to think critically about the world around us. Debate is a microcosm of the Library, a place for the celebration of knowledge. In other words, debate is the manifestation of the scientific PROCESS of evaluating claims. Debate invites us to think about different topics and ideas, to modify our understanding and to be attuned to cosmic relationship**

**In that sense, we are inspired by this year’s resolution. Space exploration is an opportunity to meditate on the nature and meaning of the cosmos. It is a method for developing new ideologies and ethical positions. We are deeply troubled that the majority of debaters use this resolution to discuss hegemony and power relations in a modernist framework, precisely because this topic opens doorways to profoundly existential questions about the cosmos. Carl Sagan is one famous thinker that elucidated these questions and drew connections between our cosmological perspective and our ethical positions. Carl explains how a cosmological perspective can lead to the development of an ethic of**
Carl Sagan, Astronomer, Philosopher, Scientist. COSMOS (1980). Pg. 101

__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">As long as there have been humans...w</span>____<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">**orld significant by the courage of our questions and by the depth of our answers.**</span>__

**Sagan’s insight is as important as it is unique. Like Sagan, we believe that exploring space and learning about the cosmos is a humbling experience that challenges the worst impulses of humanism. Indeed, in the absence of cosmological wonder, humans are left to their own vanity. This vanity mutates into competition, which occasionally becomes violence. On the other hand, Sagan’s cosmic perspective exposes the danger of our current course and redirects our power of imaginatio**
Carl Sagan, Astronomer, Philosopher, Scientist. COSMOS (1980). Pg. 193

__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">We have held the peculiar notion that a person...</span>__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;"> __is clearly the universe or noth__</span>

**There is no doubt that the stakes are high. We are an endangered species with our hands on nuclear technology. Our future survival and happiness depends on how we interpret the meaning of our technology and the purposes of our efforts. Science is neither a mirage nor a panacea, but a process for exploring the limits of our understanding.**
Carl Sagan, Astronomer, Philosopher, Scientist. COSMOS (1980)

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">The choice is stark and ironic. </span>__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">The same rocket...</span>__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">for war can relatively easily be reinvested in the exploration of the Cosmos.</span>

**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">We are inspired and motivated by Carl Sagan to use our performance of the 1AC to promote a form of education that redirects our collective efforts towards cosmological investigations. In this sense, we agree that the United States Federal Government should substantially increase its exploration and development of space beyond the mesos</span>**

**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">The first step to exploring space beyond the mesosphere is to turn an eye towards the night sky, conscious of our fleeting time here. The goal of our Affirmative is to inspire another human being to look up at the sky, to ask deeply existential questions, and to find their place among the stars. A cascade of public interest in astrophysics and cosmology will usher in a new epoch of communication and travel throughout an infinite number of galaxies. We believe this is the ONLY plausible scenario for successful human exploration and development of outer space.</span>**

**Specifically, the United States Federal Government should pass a resolution to use the Spaceship of the Imagination to send us into the super massive black hole at the center of the Milky Way Galaxy.**

**First – The Politics of the Singularity**

**The Universe is so large that traveling between stars and planets faces seemingly insurmountable obstacles. The only feasible way to actualize space exploration is to use the forces of the universe to our advantage. Black holes may provide the right conditions of gravity and pressure to propel us through space/time.**
Carl Sagan, Astronomer, Philosopher, Scientist. COSMOS (1980). Pg 138-139

__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">A helpful way to understand black holes is to think about...</span>__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;"> __are being discussed__ even semi-seriously __shows how surreal the universe may be__.</span>

**Black holes may be the key to accessing the fourth dimension, or wormholes to new universes, or even time machines. Our Aff meditates on the idea of black holes as gateways to new realities. This is a good metaphor for the topic, which is a gateway to transcend our repetitive hegemony and economy debates year in and out. Meditation about black holes hoists us to a vantage point that can begin to understand the Universe as a fractal.**
Carl Sagan, Astronomer, Philosopher, Scientist. COSMOS (1980). Pg 153-154

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">If there is insufficient matter to prevent the universe from expanding forever,....</span>**__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">black holes in the solar neighborhood. Poised at the edge of forever, we would jump off.</span>__**

**Second – Spaceship of the Imagination**

**This moment right now is a critical juncture in space time. Even the smallest actions have enormous consequences when time is stretched out far enough, and the universe boasts an infinite timescale. Our Affirmative is an act of imagination that has the power to literally transform history. In only takes an ideological microorganism to reorient the lever of time.**
Carl Sagan, Astronomer, Philosopher, Scientist. COSMOS (1980). Pg. 101.

__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">History consists</span>__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;"> for the most part __of a complex bundle,,,,__</span>__<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">an insignificant thing, only a millionth of a centimeter across. It is hardly anything at all.</span>__

**Now is the time to celebrate and protect life in all its forms. We hope that sharing our own inspirations can influence the other people in this debate space to contemplate the beauty and interconnectedness of the Cosmos. We have one real advantage, which is that thinking about the Cosmos promotes our compassion for others and inspires us to commit ourselves to survival.**
Carl Sagan, Astronomer, Philosopher, Scientist. COSMOS (1980). Pg 182

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif; font-size: 10pt;">As the ancient mythmakers knew, __we are the children equally ...____If we are not committed to our own survival, who will be?__</span>

**We conclude with a passage from Ann Druyan about her marriage with Carl, which is the best way that we can describe the consciousness shift we hope to promote with this speech act.**
Ann Druyan, 2003, Writer, Astronomer, Philosopher, “Ann Druyan Talks About Science, Religion, Wonder, Awe . . . and Carl Sagan.” Skeptical Inquirer, 27:6.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When my husband died, because he was so famous...__other in the cosmos, and that was wonderful.__</span>




==__The Cosmic Egg__== 

__**Wake 1AC**__

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the earth's mesosphere by launching the cosmic egg vessel into the cosmos. We'll clarify.


Poem


<span style="color: black;">What’s that off in the distance? </span>
<span style="color: black;">Or is it really distance? </span>
<span style="color: black;">Am I right there with the object? </span>
<span style="color: black;">I still ask, //“What is it?”//</span>
<span style="color: black;">But perhaps that is because I am on it, of it, within it.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Is it really different from me? </span>
<span style="color: black;">Or is it part of the same matter that I am part of?</span>
<span style="color: black;">Why do I think that I am different from it?</span>
<span style="color: black;">What is inside it?</span>
<span style="color: black;">Nothing, it has no insides, no organs, no guts</span>
<span style="color: black;">It’s just like me but…</span>
<span style="color: black;">Why do I think that I am different from the space!</span>
<span style="color: black;">Space, space, space</span>
<span style="color: black;">A space so vast that it denies comprehension</span>
<span style="color: black;">But is not incomprehension itself a form of comprehension?</span>
<span style="color: black;">Do I, do we, have the will to think differently?</span>
<span style="color: black;">Many have said that there is no such way</span>
<span style="color: black;">But I tell you there is a way!</span>
<span style="color: black;">The spaceship, the starship, the farship, THE COSMIC EGG!</span>
<span style="color: black;">Once it was announced, the news spread quickly</span>
<span style="color: black;">They were building it</span>
<span style="color: black;">Who was building it?</span>
<span style="color: black;">They were</span>
<span style="color: black;">They were building a colossal spaceship to take ten thousand people far far away with no goals, no gravity, no order, just depravity</span>
<span style="color: black;">Some reacted with sedentary incredulity</span>
//<span style="color: black;">Why on EARTH would they do that? It makes no SENSE</span>//
<span style="color: black;">At last! I had found what I was searching for!</span>
<span style="color: black;">I was tired of what made sense</span>
<span style="color: black;">I was tired of the things everyone tried to tell me were correct</span>
<span style="color: black;">Ever since I was a child</span>
<span style="color: black;">I wanted to see the stars</span>
<span style="color: black;">To think the stars</span>
<span style="color: black;">To the think the stars differently</span>
<span style="color: black;">The days went by and I could watch them assemble it up beyond the mesosphere</span>
<span style="color: black;">Piece by piece</span>
<span style="color: black;">The metal was formed into a rounded shape criss-crossed by lines of happy rivets</span>
<span style="color: black;">What did this giant egg-shaped device produce in me?</span>
<span style="color: black;">Hope</span>
<span style="color: black;">Joy</span>
<span style="color: black;">Desubjectification</span>
<span style="color: black;">The day came that the ship was complete and they announced the raffle</span>
//<span style="color: black;">COME JOIN THE COSMIC RAFFLE! YOUR ONCE IN A LIFETIME CHANCE TO EXPLORE OUTER SPACE! REGISTER FOR TICKETS!</span>//
<span style="color: black;">So I got them</span>
<span style="color: black;">I got thousands</span>
<span style="color: black;">I really, really wanted it</span>
<span style="color: black;">Many other people in my workplace wanted it too</span>
<span style="color: black;">Society was hysterical, shaken up, schizophrenized.</span>
<span style="color: black;">The day came that the list was released</span>
<span style="color: black;">There I was…</span>
<span style="color: black;">The very first name…</span>
<span style="color: black;">I knew I had a destiny</span>
<span style="color: black;">I would be part of the new people</span>
<span style="color: black;">The new people…</span>
<span style="color: black;">We were shuttled up to boring old low earth orbit</span>
<span style="color: black;">And our shuttle, one among many, docked up against the egg</span>
<span style="color: black;">I enjoyed its enormity</span>
<span style="color: black;">Its hyperdrive engines</span>
<span style="color: black;">Its plasma shield generators to protect us</span>
<span style="color: black;">We entered back into the womb, the cosmic people and I, and were left with no directions</span>
//<span style="color: black;">“You’re on your own from here” </span>//<span style="color: black;">they told us</span>
<span style="color: black;">They left us to our own devices</span>
<span style="color: black;">I chose my quarters freely</span>
<span style="color: black;">They were spacious</span>
<span style="color: black;">Unlike on the cruise I had taken the previous year</span>
<span style="color: black;">Departure was imminent and I already felt freed</span>
<span style="color: black;">I visited the pilot center, where a computer was preparing to take us where we so desired</span>
<span style="color: black;">We produced a destination</span>
<span style="color: black;">I won’t say where</span>
<span style="color: black;">For I don’t even know where it is…</span>
<span style="color: black;">All I know is that I do not know any longer</span>
<span style="color: black;">I do not live any longer</span>
<span style="color: black;">I mean nothing</span>
<span style="color: black;">I have no identity</span>
<span style="color: black;">I simply am</span>
<span style="color: black;">As so many others are</span>
<span style="color: black;">The umbilical cord is severed</span>
<span style="color: black;">We are the astronaut floating free in space</span>
<span style="color: black;">Freer than ever at our imminent doom</span>
<span style="color: black;">What would we become?</span>
//<span style="color: black;">“What will happen to them?” </span>//<span style="color: black;">whispered the earthlings far below</span>
<span style="color: black;">Only the cosmos can answer that…</span>
<span style="color: black;">For the cosmos is all</span>
<span style="color: black;">Everything and nothing</span>
<span style="color: black;">The cosmos is…</span>
<span style="color: black;">Possibility…</span>


This year's topic asks us to only see the beginning and the end of space travel -- to only have a destination in mind. This submission of the line to the point ignores the middle and the experience of space travel.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 293-294)

What constitutes arborescence ... we were saying becoming.


This submission of the line to the point is striated space. Instead we should embrace smooth space, which acts like a vector and allows for freedom of movement.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 478-479)

Of course, there are points .... qualities deriving from it.


Insisting on space exploration and development in a striated form is an expression of totalization and centralization of space and the topic that justifies fascism.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 214-215)

It is not sufficient to define ... both personal and collective.


Our need to securitize everything and draw conclusions in a striated form embraces microfascism, which re-creates dangers and traps us deeper into the black holes of supposed truths and clarities.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 227-228)

We cannot say that one ... certitudes of the first line.


Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the earth's mesosphere by launching the cosmic egg vessel into the cosmos. We'll clarify.


The exploration of the plan is key to reach a new level of being by exploring dominant realities and putting ourselves in "unprepared" places.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 159-160)

Let us consider ... have believed in them.


This acts as a clean break from traditional policy and ideology that leads to a new future.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 199)

There is, in addition, a third ... but not that foolish.


The true flight of the plan's exploration functions as a line of rupture that puts the past and war behind us and gives us freedom from traditional frames, as we embrace a new future.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 199-200)

In rupture, not only ... deadly and alive, nonsegmentary.


The spaceship of the plan represents what D&G call a cosmic egg or Body without Organs, which is something that breaks away from tradition and is always changing into something smooth and free.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 164-165)

The BwO is the egg ... continually self-constructing milieu.


It's not about development -- pure and genuine exploration is key to break away from traditional "planes" or frames. It is necessary to embrace the unknown -- even if the plan may fail, you should still vote aff for change.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 254-255)

The never-ending debate ... entering into varying connections.


The plan is a symbolic form of rhizomatic thinking to focus on the "middle" of space exploration and get rid of traditional structures and foundations.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 25)

A rhizome has no ... picks up speed in the middle.


The cosmic egg is a gateway to new peoples and new earths.
Deleuze and Guattari 80 (Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, 1980, "A Thousand Plateaus," p. 73-74)

It was over ... the Mechanosphere, or rhizosphere.

__**Harker 1AC**__

__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">New Poem</span>**__

<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Cosmic Egg Ship’s Log Entry #1 – </span>__</span>
We have left the earth’s atmosphere
Gone way beyond the mesosphere
Into the cosmic egg
This giant spaceship of potential freedom
The earthly governments will not control us
We will roam the galaxy as we choose
We are the new people
The new people…
I am desubjectified
I am not citizen, nor soldier, nor sinner, nor saint
I am only a nomad
Lost
Free

<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Cosmic Egg Ships Log – Entry #4242</span>__</span>
Here I am…
Floating in space
Floating in place
A floating place
The cosmic egg is on its way
Voyaging, voyaging,
Only to stay
We left long ago when light-years were years
Back on earth, where fears were really fears
The cosmos is much bigger
Our minds are much bigger now
I realized that this happened
When I stopped asking HOW
HOW
HOW
I skip around the ship
Gleeful and playfully free
Looking to find what I can see
Out of these windows
These spaceport televisions
BUT THIS IS BETTER THAN THE JERSEY SHORE!
This is the Cosmos channel – runs 24/7 and never plays a boring program
Wow is this better than life on earth
Boring, boring, boring
And worthless
Only a bunch of fascists ranting about “space policy” and “nuclear war”
Constructing hollow arborescent identities that I was required to fill without asking “what for?”
Anyhow, where was I?
Oh, that’s right. I’m at the constellation Orion
Now Vega!
Now we’re edging out of the milky way
Woohoooo!!!!!
My excitement matches the fury of the hyperdrive enginges as we blur and blur our way through the infinite outer place
I look out the portal
See nebulas and stars
White dwarfs a-raging
And infinitely far
They’re BURNING BURNING BURNING
Like the power of my heart
And the beauty of strange unknown planets orbiting apart
Last week we saw a black hole
Or rather, detected because they can’t be seen
Is the status quo really preferable after you’ve been where I’ve been?
A month ago we witnessed a supernova
For a wirring, clicking, psychotic second in space
Before we were whisked off again
With new wonders to face
And comprehend
And process
And program our minds
What remains out here for us to find?
The answer is infinite
The universe is expanding
Things are not stable
And life is discovery
Our simple little question is:
“Where are you standing?”


__**New 1AC Cards**__

The cosmic egg is a desert island, a dream of pulling away. It is not a new beginning but a re-beginning that allows us to recreate perception and existence
<span class="cite">Deleuze 74 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, prof of Philosophy @ U of Paris Vincennes, Desert Islands pg. 9-14)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Geographers say .........</span> something most profound.

Our concept affirms the universe as fragmented. There is no unity and there are no simple solutions that can be achieved through space policy. Such attempts can only cause technostrategic violence

Deleuze 74 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Desert Islands pg. 156-159)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kostas Axelos, </span> local fires of Heraclitus."'


Cites for answers to Framework:

Framework is an attempt to stay in tunnel vision.
Eagleton 91 (Terry Eagleton, 1991, "Ideology: An Introduction," p. 1-10)

Current policymaking is limited -- only a changed discourse can be effective.
Farmer 95 (David John Farmer, 1995, "The Language of Public Administration: Bureaucracy, Modernity, and Postmodernity")

Framework is a form of imperialism seeking to catagorize the aff as something that doesn't meet current "standards" in debate.
Kincheloe 97 (Fiction Formulas: Critical Constructivism and the Representations of Reality," 1997, p. 57-80)

=Neg= 

===__Wake Forest Heidegger 1NC__=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The development and exploration of space occurs entirely within the horizons of technological thinking. For technology, outer space is just another phenomenological resource from which technological being transforms the cosmos into standing reserve. This impulse mirrors the structure of totalitarianism.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lazier 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Benjamin, Associate Professor of History and Humanities at Reed College, “Earthrise: or, Globalization of the World Picture,” in //The American Historical Review// 116.3]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">IN 1990, THE GERMAN ASTRONOMERS... at first glance seem unsuited to it.1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">2 ....</span>

The enframing of space exploration causes an ontological distance that underlies atrocity and war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huchingson 90 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[James, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Religious Studies at Florida International University, “Earthstruck,” in //Zygon// 25.3]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">In 1968 in an essay responding... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> ...destroy other people, other states.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The ontological loss we experience by leaving earth obliterates the value to life and is a fate worse than nuclear annihilation</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zimmerman 94</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Prof of Philosophy @ Tulane, __Contesting Earth’s Future__, p.119-120)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">Heidegger asserted that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">human self assertion... ....</span>human valuation of Being in non-violent terms

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">The alternative is to reject technological thinking and embrace the ontological eccentricity of the earth. Earth is the spring of valuation while technological thinking’s attempt to universalize the power of management through thought produces an //absolute// violence against the trauma of Being, whereas acknowledgement of the earth can ground human valuation of Being in non-violent terms</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lazier 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[Benjamin, Associate Professor of History and Humanities at Reed College, “Earthrise: or, Globalization of the World Picture,” in //The American Historical Review// 116.3]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">Blumenberg’s classic statement... ....</span>The Earthrise era, Blumenberg thought, would enable us to do both at once.



===Wake Forest D&G Smooth/Striated 1NC=== 

**The game has changed. The earth is no longer itself in our eyes, the focus of our politics is cosmic, and the nature of our controls is molecular. The shift of modern politics towards a new era of striation has enacted a new form of knowledge and a new set of questions. Those in power control our forms of thought while deciding whether to keep us or kill us all. Will we be these assassins or poets who reconnect with the earth and freedom? Are other peoples and other forms of thought possible?**
**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus 345-346)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Material thus has three principal characteristics... ...</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">stick it in a conservatory or a bomb?</span>__**

**Space is a mixture of two different types: the smooth and the striated. There is no universal division and each is constantly becoming the other**

**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 474-475)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Smooth space and striated space... ...</span>__**the relations between them.


**The smooth and the striated are defined by different forms of perception. The smooth is a space of freedom because it is determined by the journey and it is what defines us rather than something we measure, define, and understand to control what journey we take**



**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 478-479)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **__there are points... ....__**</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">qualities deriving from it.</span>__**


**The forces of smoothing and striating treat space differently. The affirmative’s approach to space is fixated on allocating and controlling the matter within space, rather than coexisting. It is therefore appropriate that the primary source of striation historically and in status quo debate is the city, the state, the forces of order.**



**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 480-481)</span>


<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Let us return to the simple opposition... ...</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Condensed force, the potential for counterattack?</span>__**

**A striated approach to space goes hand in hand with the controls of the state-apparatus. The affirmative addresses politics in a fashion that subjugates the force of the individual to the hollow question of the universal and macropolitical. This desire to be led by a faceless collective is the fascist impulse that enables massacres**

**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 214-215)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is not sufficient to define bureaucracy... ...</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">cherish with molecules both personal and collective</span>__****__.__**

**We recognize that we cannot be entirely smooth or entirely striated. Truthfully, debate and the knowledge it contains is the greatest mix of smooth and striated space. We find ourselves constantly confronted with choices between the two, often accompanied by confusing overlap. Because the smooth becomes striated and the striated is smoothed out, it becomes a question of which operation we wish to defend. In which fashion will we conduct ourselves? What type of voyage will we attempt to take?**

**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 481-482)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In each instance, then</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, **__the simple opposition... ...r__**</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">unning in the most varied directions</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>


**The alternative is an endorsement of creative, artistic relation to the earth. The affirmative’s technological knowing is akin to the classical artist who follows a formulaic binary incensed with controlling creation. Our performance establishes a philosophy that is like romantic art. Instead of calling for new creation in space, we cry out for a new relationship to the earth that makes it a force to be reckoned with, a focal point of life, and a universe of forces that inform our existence. This relationship rejects the treatment of the earth as a controlled territory or a substance that must be expanded. We embrace the constant variation that is life and refuse to treat matter as a force of chaos to be subjugated. Rather we become part of that chaos in a smooth space.**



**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 337-)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have gone from stratified milieus.... ...with other givens and other vectors.</span>


===__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wake Forest Love K 1NC </span>__=== 


Everything gives and all matter is component of ethical encounter. When humans fight a war or a star goes supernova, it makes no difference to the universe. Our sun will eventually explode, making the grounding of ethics the inevitable time when we will no longer exist.


The alternative is a cosmic ethic of becoming and love that can only be achieved by embracing the chaos of the universe. We are not unique by virtue of our existence. What does make us unique is our ability to respond to the inevitable collisions of the universe by loving each other and all matter while we can.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Clark 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nigel, senior lecturer in Geography at the Open University, UK “Ex-orbitant generosity: gifts of love in a cold cosmos” Parallax, 16(1), p. 8-10)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Slavoj Zizek writes: `There is </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ethics</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">... </span> .... a defining quality. If not us, then who?

===**__Harker D&G 1NC__**=== 

Normalized thought is arborescent, it has a fixed center of unity and totality that controls all derivative ideas through significance and hierarchy. Arborescent thought produces violent social formations. This is contrasted to the rhizome, a freely connected and autonomous organization
**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 15-18)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thought is not arborescent</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, __......__ </span>**of the unconscious.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
We will isolate two forms of planetary thought – the affirmative uses a totalizing form to bundle up the complexities of the universe into a goal-oriented management of cosmic objects. This logic can only ever be the production of violence and conquest while it simultaneously makes us complacent to actions like the aff. Rather, the universe is a mess. It is a chaosmos that is filled with fragments interacting with each other. A superior planetary thought should embrace the chaos of the cosmos and the human connection to all planets and stars

Deleuze 74 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Desert Islands pg. 156-159)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kostas Axelos, in search ....... </span>in the local fires of Heraclitus."'

Everything gives and all matter is component of ethical encounter. When humans fight a war or a star goes supernova, it makes no difference to the universe. Our sun will eventually explode, making the grounding of ethics the inevitable time when we will no longer exist.
The alternative is a cosmic ethic of becoming and love that can only be achieved by embracing the chaos of the universe. We are not unique by virtue of our existence. What does make us unique is our ability to respond to the inevitable collisions of the universe by loving each other and all matter while we can.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Clark 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nigel, senior lecturer in Geography at the Open University, UK “Ex-orbitant generosity: gifts of love in a cold cosmos” Parallax, 16(1), p. 8-10)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Slavoj Zizek writes: `There is </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ethics</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ........ </span>. If not us, then who?


===**__Bronx - Foucault 1NC__**=== 

<span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Surveillance systems and satellites are the new manifestation of the modern panopticon – all spaces are open to observation and anyone can be tracked</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 7</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Fraser MacDonald, Professor of Anthropology, Geography, and Environmental Studies at Melbourne University in Australia, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography,” //Progress in Human Geography,// 2007, Pages 592-615.</span>
<span class="underline">The geopolitical effects of reconnaissance ....</span> your location to this contact
**The panopticon is the most insidious form of power - we internalize the gaze of control and discipline ourselves. Individuals are isolated and dominated as objects of information**
**Foucault 77** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michel, “Discipline and Punish” pg. 200-203)</span>
<span class="underline">Bentham's Panopticon is the architectural ...</span> by the day, to calculate their wages (Bentham, 60-64). )
**Satellite dominance puts the body under scrutiny in a political field and controls it as an object of knowledge. We should not think of power as a single instance or all-or-nothing choice, rather it is something established in a variety of points, we want to create a surveillance free space in the debate by engaging the resistance flip-side of power relations**
**Foucault 77** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michel, “Discipline and Punish” pg. 25-28)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But we can surely accept the general .... ....</span> human bodies and subjugate them by turning them into objects of knowledge.
**Population control and the technology of the body employed through satellites is a biopolitcal apparatus that mobilizes whole populations for warfare causing wholesale slaughter and nuclear war**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foucault 78</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Michel, Professor of Philosophy at the College de France, The History Of Sexuality: An Introduction, Vol. 1, pg. 136-137]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Since the classical age the West has undergone .... </span><span class="underline"> and the large-scale phenomena of population</span>.</span>
**We are in the panoptic machine. This round constructs panopticism – this is a unique micro-location at which to reject surveillance**
**Foucault 77** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michel, “Discipline and Punish” pg. 216-217)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On the whole, therefore, </span><span class="underline">one can speak .... soon to render useless both the eagle and the sun.</span>
**Our alternative is to vote against the panopticon in an act of paranoia – while paranoia seems negative when understood from the perspective of normalized social discipline, it is a liberating action that recognizes the omnipresence of the panopticon and responds by deviating and escaping the gaze rather than submitting**
**Holm 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nicholas, Dep. of English @ mcmaster U, “Conspiracy Theorizing Surveillance: Considering Modalities of Paranoia and Conspiracy in Surveillance Studies” Surveillance and Society 7(1) pg. 41-43)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Beyond an understanding of the current ..... </span> without surrendering any analytic force to self-effacement.


===__**USC D&G Piracy 1NC**__=== 

**Centuries ago, the European state apparatus became too big for its territories and began to expand. The process started small with three ships and a man named Columbus who would go on to commit genocide of thousands of Native Americans. The imperative to expand expresses a negative relation to difference that must integrate every individual and every exterior space into a coherent collective with the same goals. If you aren’t with us, you’re against us. If you don’t relate to space like we do, we’ll eradicate you. The historical narrative of expansion is always a violent sleight of hand. Then, it was the Christian mission and the mission of civilized men. Today, it is the necessary action to save the species. What always gets ignored in this narrative process is the very violence necessary to preserve the illusion of safety, security, rationality, and above all politics. The reason today’s discourses speak about extinction is that the fascism of eradicating difference and creating uniform identity as speaking subjects has been repeated for so long that it seems impossible to imagine other ways of being. The extension into the New World was also the birth of global capitalism and as the money piled up, more people died, and more territory was integrated. The state requires a space to striate, to know, map, and place new grids on. We become trapped in the grid because our desire and how we view ourselves and our agency is already confined within a different grid which we have accepted.**
**But surely not everyone was a conquistador on the ship or a passive citizen of the mercantilist nation? Every age and every period contains its nomads, its outsiders, those it deems as the “evil other”. The outsiders of the colonial period were the pirates. Pirates obeyed no laws and were uncontrollable except through an absolute takeover of the space they existed in. We think that the necessity of thinking about pirates has returned as capitalism prepares to launch into space. Outer space is smooth much like the sea and it is as of yet free from total striation. We ask that you imagine the following:**
**You are a crewmember on a space shuttle that is set for a specific mission. You are hardwired to never deviate from protocol and to do your duty. The shuttle has just begun to leave earth’s orbit when it finds itself captured by a pirate space cruiser. When confronted with the pirate crew and their desiring-machines, what would you do? They say to you: join our crew and roam the galaxy in freedom with no rules or violent control or we’ll leave you in your broken shuttle, just another piece of space debris under a state that cares nothing for you? Desire or fascism?**


**The first plank is Freedom**

**Piracy is a way of life. It means answering to no dominating hierarchy or state authority. Pirates are the marginal identities who disrupt the drive of colonization. Endorsing our concept of life on a pirate space ship offers infinite possibility and ultimately comes down to freedom.**
**Klausman, Meinzerin, and Kuhn 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ulrike, Marion, Gabriel, “Women Pirates And the Politics of the Jolly Roger” trans. By Tyler Austin and Nicholas Levis p. 227-230)</span>
**__Sea robbers have been robbing since ......__** **__were not subju­gated to any statist force__**."16

**Freedom is the method and form that justifies all existence and is the only moral tactic. We should assert ourselves as freedoms, this requires positively engaging action as something worth doing for itself, for taking on our existence as a way of disclosing the world. __Gendered language said in context__**

**<span class="cite">De Beauvoir 48 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Simone, existentialist philosopher and social critic, “The Ethics of Ambiguity” </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As for us, whatever the case may be, we believe in freedom. Is it true that this belief must lead us to despair? Must we grant this curious paradox: that from the moment a SECTION I: AMBIGUITY AND FREEDOM, pp. 1-34)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As for us, whatever the case may be, </span>**__we believe in freedom__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. ....... </span> **__freedom is confirmed through all creation.__**

**By making space the tool for saving the collective or making state society safe and stable, they perpetuate a false reality where it is impossible to imagine a new future of individual freedom. This desire for our own repression makes us complicit with whatever new massacres will come from human expansion into space.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (Gilles and Felix, A Thousand Plateaus pg. 214-215)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">I**__t is not sufficient to define bureaucracy ......__**</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> nourish and cherish with molecules both personal and collective.</span>__**

**__The second plank is Space__**
**Having a smooth space, an exterior to exist in unobserved is the very source of freedom and the prerequisite to piracy. This grants pirates an imperceptibility that escapes the violence of the state and moots its control by preventing the striated allocation of space into property and territory. Furthermore, the action of nomads on the space they are in also defines the space to be what it is, in the case of our negative strategy: nonviolent and free.**

**Klausman, Meinzerin, and Kuhn 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="color: black;">Marion Meinzerin, professor of history at Cambridge University, Gabriel Kuhn, freelance writer, Ulrike Klausman, freelance journalist</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Women Pirates And the Politics of the Jolly Roger” trans. By Tyler Austin and Nicholas Levis p. 231-234)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> substantive **__prerequisite__** **__for__** the departure into **__freedom, ......__** **__If this is so, we must also ask who the pirates of today might be__**.</span>

**__The third plank is the Ballot__**

**Our alternative is to be space pirates. This statement implicitly requires a direct rejection of the affirmative because their approach to space attempts to striate it and build society in space. The alt presents an opportunity cost with existing in the exterior as free individuals or perpetuating striated and fascist society. Since we can never actually go to outer space, this debate is only a narrative competition of how we know space and the sort of things that should happen in it.**
**Use the ballot to commit an act of piracy within debate that disrupts normalized collective space discourses and affirms space for the individual.**



===__**MBA Astropolitics 1NC**__=== 

**Link and impact—their faith in the ability of technology to provide security reflects a logic of total domination over the planet that renders us all into disposable standing reserve, this risks extinction.**
**Burke, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Professor of Politics and International Relations @ University of New South Wales</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason 10:2 | [[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.emory.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html#copyright|©]] 2007 Anthony Burke War as a Way of Being: Lebanon 2006 (PhD, Anthony Burke was appointed to UNSW@ADFA in February 2008, after three years in the School of Social Sciences and International Studies at UNSW Sydney (2005-7) Theory & Event, Project Muse).</span>
__Bacon thought of the new scientific ......__ __obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.__

**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative as an instance of securitization**

**Representations matter uniquely in the context of their affirmative: allowing discourses of technological inevitability to replace political dialogue creates conditions for a space war****. Re-framing space politics requires challenging the rhetoric used to justify policies.**
**Grondin, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel “Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes” THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, </span>__we have no way of knowing how other .......__ **__to still be possible, if not inevitable.__**

===__MBA D&G K against Asteroids__=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Collisions between cosmic bodies are inevitable but they are also ethical demands. The inevitable destruction of all beings in the solar explosion is a call for us to love others. The cosmic flux of the universe demonstrates the presence of the ethical in all things, which is why death is not an ethical standard, but rather a transformation between states</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Clark 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nigel, senior lecturer in Geography at the Open University, UK “Ex-orbitant generosity: gifts of love in a cold cosmos” Parallax, 16(1), p. 8-10)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Slavoj Zizek writes: `There is </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ethics</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">....... </span>If not us, then who?

**The alternative is to become on the plane of consistency. The plane of consistency is a conception of being on which we exist in the chaotic interplay of forces and affects rather than creating forms, identities, and organization. This frees life from subjectivity and the distinction between the natural and articifical**

**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 265-268)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Memories of a Plane(e) Maker. ........ Perhaps (the plane of consistency or composition).</span>


===**__Feminist Kritik of Science 1NC__**=== 

Science in its current form masks rather than reveals reality

HMA 2003 (Herbert Marcuse association, Lancaster U as a means to supply material on the topicality of Herbert Marcuse's critical thinking http://cartoon.iguw.tuwien.ac.at/christian/marcuse/odm6.html)

Husserl starts with the fact... ... the world of practice.

The belief that science is justified by objectivity entrenches patriarchy

Angier 1995 (Natalie, Prof of Life Sciences @ Cornell U, "The Beauty of the Beastly: New Views on the Nature of life" Houghton Mifflin Books, http://books.google/com/books?id=P3hCaI8RU4C&output=html)

Feminist perspectives on science... ... and Donna Haraway (1989).

The privilege of masculinity within science and the domains of experts will cause perpetual environmental destruction and war

Nhanenge 7 (Jytte, Masters @ U of South Arica, Accepted Thesis Paper for Development Studies, "Ecofeminism: Towards Integrating the Concerns of Women, Poor People and Nature in Development" uir.unisa.ac.za/bitstream/10500/570/1/dissertation.pdf)

The androcentric premises also have political consequences... ...catastrophe and nuclear holocaust.

The alt - We must reject the Affirmative to open space for a de-monopolized democratized, free and open scientific society

Backstrand 2004 (Karin, Lecturer @ The Department of Poli Sci @ Lund U Sweden, "Scientisation vs. Civic Expertise in Environmental Governance: Eco-Feminist, Eco-modern and Post-Modern Responses", Environmental Politics, Vol. 13, No. 4, pp. 695-714)

In contrast, reflexive scientisation... ...institutionalised self-criticism.

Science Framework interp -- Epistemological questions should be evaluated in the debate, and the affirmative must defend their epistemological AND policymaking foundations.

Sci FW Card - Questioning epistemology is a precursor to the evaluation of the affirmative's truth claims, which is necessary for a truly valuable debate.

Oyewumi 97 (Oyeronke, Assoc. Prof of Sociology, SUNY Stony Brook, "The Invention of Women Making an African Sense of Western Gender Discourses," U of Minnesota Press)

This book is about the epistemological.... .... can they be debated and challenged.

===__Lexington D&G 1NC against McDonough MR Earth Observation Climate Racism Aff__=== 

**Rhizomatic thought—we don’t think in tree structures. All thought naturally imitates the rhizome, binary constructions such as race and fascism are arborescent frames placed on the rhizome. The tree builds binaries of conflict**

**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles, professor of philosophy at U of Paris Vincennes, and Felix, psychoanalyst and political activist, A Thousand Plateaus P. 15-18)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thought is not arborescent</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, **__and the .....__**</span> the rhizome is precisely this production of the unconscious.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">The affirmative’s relation to identity depends upon a reaction to static being – we oppose this with the concept of becoming, a free movement of traditional essences across boundaries. This destabilizes binaries and draws creative lines of flight</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Parnet 77</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Gilles, Prof of Philosophy @ U of Paris Vincennes, and Claire, philosopher and French reporter, Trans. by Hugh Tomlison and Barbar Habberjam; p. 3-5)</span></span></span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">To become is never to imitate, nor to 'do like', ......</span>__** **__but becoming all these, in order to invent new forces or new weapons.__**


**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Challenging traditional state-forms only reinstitutes being and identity in the same fashion, turning the case. Instead, we should disengage traditional perception by becoming-imperceptible. We are not transcendentally separate from the flows of the world. Becoming allows us to become part of the chaotic flux of life and overcome the human</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Colebrook 2 </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Claire, teaches English Literature at the University of Edinburgh, “Gilles Deleuze” p. 127-129)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">For the most part </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">we do not perceive becoming</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">; ........ </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">life</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">Literature, for Deleuze, is essential here.</span>

===__Lexington Security K 1NC__=== 



<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space is preexisted by the discourses and knowledge we produce about it—this means that the aff’s concepts of space war are ideological projections that reflect a terrestrial logic of militarism and otherization</span>**</span>



<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bormann 2006 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ISA Conference in San Diego, March 22-25, 2006 Panel on ‘Reading Outer Space’ Dr Natalie Bormann Visiting Assistant Professor The Global Security Program Watson Institute Brown UniversityThe Lost Dimension? A Virilian reading of Outer Space Weaponization </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">To begin with, the concept ....... : what has informed this process? </span>



<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security is a self-fulfilling prophecy—discourses of threat construction are the cause of conflict</span>**</span>



<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lipschutz 1998</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(//On Security//, Assistant Professor of Politics, Director of the Adlai Stevenson Program on Global Security, University of California, Santa Cruz Ronnie D. Lipschutz, editor)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">How do such discourses begin?...... do to us with theirs . 22 </span>




<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The political calculation of subjects through security politics designates valuable and invaluable groups—allowing any atrocity and destroying the value of life</span>**</span>



<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dillon 1999 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Michael, professor Politics and International Relations at the University of Lancaster “Another Justice,” //Political Theory// 27:2]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Philosophy's task, for Levinas, ....... into which one cannot see. </span>




<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative is a critique of security at the level of individual identity and social and political possibility. This act of agency requires a refusal of the discourse used by the affirmative. This opens possibilities for a world beyond security.</span>**</span>



<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Burke 2002 (</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Anthony, Professor, School of Political Science and International Studies University of Queensland, Aporias of Security, //Alternatives// 27 pg. 22-23)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">It is perhaps easy to become ....... shimmering possibilities might be.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">The Medusa</span>= 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">We sometimes read a version of our feminism Kritik in which we read a critical retelling of the ancient Greek myth of Medusa (From the book Women Pirates and the Politics of the Jolly Roger by Ulrike Klausman, Marion Meinzerin, and Gabriel Kuhn) . It is impacted with the Nanhenge evidence in the Feminist Kritik of Science above.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Taoism (read at NDCA) '</span>== 
Taoism 1NC (short)

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No one knows what is good and bad before something happens. Reject the aff’s judgments as morally irresponsible, even if we lose all life on earth</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirkland</span>**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia</span>, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Russell, “'Responsible Non-Action' in a Natural World: Perspectives from the Neiye, Zhuangzi, and Daode jing,” //Daoism and Ecology: Ways within a Cosmic Landscape//, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf)</span>
__In the Taoist__ classic ..... the new state of things.’

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is WuWei. Take no action to create desired ends, but rather move with the flow of things as they happen. Rejecting the aff on face is key to being at peace with the world.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirkland</span>**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1996</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Russell, “The Book of the Way,” //Great Literature of the Eastern World//, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Specifically</span>, __the Tao is humble__, ....... **__can thwart its unceasing operation__**.