[[toc]]
=Affirmative - NPP= 
Plan Text :<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The National Aeronautics Space Agency should facilitate the development of nuclear pulse propulsion beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Adv 1 - Asteroids</span>== 

Contention One – Asteroid Deflection


Initially note, an Earth-shattering asteroid strike is inevitable and current efforts are insufficient. Only nuclear pulse propulsion can ensure survival.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 02</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">[Wayne Smith, founder of the Pro-Nuclear Space Movement and consultant for the Nuclear Space Technology Institute, “Why Build Orion,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.angelfire.com/stars2/projectorion/build.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">]</span>


AND proposed asteroid defense lacks deep space propulsion necessary for successful detection and deflection.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ragheb 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[M. Ragheb, Associate professor of Engineering at University of Illinois, Nuclear defense against stellar objects, https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20402%20ME%20405%20Nuclear%20Power%20Engineering/Nuclear%20Defense%20Against%20Stellar%20Objects.pdf]</span>


**The impact is extinction**
**McGUIRE 02**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>


**AND the magnitude of the impact means that you should err aff on timeframe and probability – //high magnitude// and //aperiodic strikes// shatter traditional considerations of “timeframe” and mean we should treat NEO threats as __imminent.__**
**Brownfield 4**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Roger, Gaishiled Project, “A Million Miles a Day”, Presentation at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth From Asteroids, 2-26, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable= Paper&g</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> ID=17092)</span>


AND nuclear pulse propulsion could successfully deflect near earth objects using nuclear fission without inducing fracture and superior to alternative options.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ragheb 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[M. Ragheb, Associate professor of Engineering at University of Illinois, Nuclear defense against stellar objects, https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20402%20ME%20405%20Nuclear%20Power%20Engineering/Nuclear%20Defense%20Against%20Stellar%20Objects.pdf]</span>

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Adv 2 - Disposal</span>**== 
Despite reductions in the size of nuclear arsenals, nuclear weapons remain an environmental and security risk due to waste management and storage issues.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sieff 01</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Martin, Senior News Analyst, JRL, http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/5550-12.cfm]</span>

AND the existence of nuclear technology is inevitable and irreversible. The only solution is peaceful utilization via space shuttle propulsion.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sieff 01</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Martin, Senior News Analyst, JRL, http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/5550-12.cfm]</span>

Storage of waste on Earth results in plutonium poisoning and global extinction.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Willson 04</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">[Harry, Unusually qualified peace activist and co-founder of Amador Publishers, REVIEW HUMAN SURVIVAL ON A PLUTONIUM-CONTAMINATED PLANET, http://www.amadorbooks.com/books/pluto.htm]</span>

**Nuclear waste disposal will inevitably cause extinction.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Hyder 99 [Charles, B.S. and M.S. degrees in physics from the University of New Mexico (1958,1960), and a Ph.D. in Astrogeophysics from the University of Colorado (1964). He has published more than twenty solar and comet papers. He has worked, for NASA, UCLA, UNM, and the Southwest Research and Information Center, Human Extinction on this contaminated planet, http://members.fortunecity.com/osservatorio/charleshyderbook2.html //STRONG]</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Adv 3 - Leadership</span>== 
**Chinese space program rising now – development of nuclear pulse propulsion key to maintain US dominance**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Garibaldi 4</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Gabriele Garibaldi, holds an MIA from the University of Pisa. As a freelance analyst, he introduced the Italian public to the issue of "space weaponization" by publishing a book and several articles in all the most influential Italian reviews of international relations, July 20, 2004 “Chinese Threat to American Leadership in Space” Security Dialogue. < http://www.taiwansecurity.org/IS/2004/IS-Garibaldi-0704.htm> </span>


**Plan is key to preserve scientific space exploration – failure collapses science and tech leadership.** 

George <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Abbey and</span>Neal <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lane 05</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(George Abbey is Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University. From 1995 until 2001, he was Director of the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. He holds the NASA Distinguished Service and the Outstanding Leadership and Exceptional Service Medals. Neal Lane is the Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University. He also holds appointments as Senior Fellow of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, where he is engaged in matters of science and technology policy, and in the Department of Physics and Astronomy. Prior to returning to Rice University, he served in the federal government as Assistant to the President for Science and Technology and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, from August 1998 to January 2001, and as Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF), American Academy of Arts and Sciences, “ United States Space Policy Challenges and Opportunities”, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.amacad.org/publications/spacePolicy.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">//sb)</span>

**Space technology is key to U.S. leadership**
Rocco Martino, 2007, Ph.D. in astrophysics from the Institute of Aerospace Studies, Senior Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute, former Professor of Mathematics at NYU, former Professor of Systems Engineering at the University of Waterloo, Spring, “A Strategy for Success: Innovation Will Renew American Leadership”, Orbis, Vol. 51, No. 2, 

**Hegemony prevents extinction** 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Khalizad 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">(Zalmay, United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations, The National Review, “The Economy and National Security” 2-8, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Solvency</span>== 

=Negative= 
T
Astropolitiks K
Russia Relations DA
US/Russia COOP CP
China DA

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]