[[toc]]
=== === 
=Questions?= 
Email [[mailto:charles.rafkin@gmail.com|charles.rafkin@gmail.com]] for neg cites and [[mailto:joyce93h@gmail.com|joyce93h@gmail.com]] for aff cites and we will post ASAP

We have decided to stop posting full text for new cites we add -- it clutters up the wiki and makes everything run slowly -- but if you are interested, we'll be happy to send you the full card if you can't access it :).
=Affirmative= 
==1AC New Trier== 
===**Democracy**=== 
**Contention one is democratization:**

**Subpoint A—it’s good:**

**Global democracy is dying, causing cascading conflicts** 
**Kurlantzick, 7/15 -- Counsel on Foreign Relations fellow for South-East Asia** 2011. Joshua (Counsel on Foreign Relations fellow for South-East Asia//jh), “Democracy in steep decline around the world” for //The National//, http://www.thenational.ae/news/worldwide/middle-east/democracy-in-steep-decline-around-the-world?pageCount=0
In its annual survey, the monitoring group __Freedom House__, … __was preferable under certain circumstances, doubled between 1996 and 2006.__

**Shared norms and democratic process stop conflict.**
**Lynn-Jones 98 –** **Editor of the peer reviewed journal International Security and Series Editor of Belfer Center Studies in International Security.** Sean M (//jh), March, “Why the United States Should Spread Democracy” discussion paper for Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to improving the lives of individual citizens in new …</span> __avoiding myths and misperceptions that cause wars__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn62|62]]</span>

**Even if we don’t solve every conflict, solves escalation and propensity of conflicts** 
**Tarzi 07 – professor of economic affairs at Bradley University** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Shah, Professor of Economic Affairs @ Bradley, Democratic Peace, Illiberal Democracy and Conflict Behavior, International Journal on World Peace, vol 24</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bueno de Mequita, Morrow, Siverson, and Smith …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> democratic states rarely attack one another</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (23) </span>

**Specifically, democracy stops conflicts in Eastern Europe, Latin America, Africa, and Asia – no transition wars** 
**Lynn-Jones 98.** Sean M (Editor, International Security; Series Editor, Belfer Center Studies in International Security//jh), March, “Why the United States Should Spread Democracy” discussion paper for Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html]]
Responses: Mansfield and Snyder have advanced … can help to move new democracies in a benign direction.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn121|121]]

**Those wars go nuclear and escalate** 
**Diamond 95 – hoover institution senior fellow** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Larry Diamond, Hoover Institution senior fellow, co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, December 1995, A Report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and Instruments, Issues and Imperatives,” [[http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the … on which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.</span>

Subpoint B is Iran.
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Arab Spring is dying, but it can be salvaged</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Pryce-Jones, 9/12/</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">11. David (</span>senior editor at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Review|National Review]] magazine//jh), “Wither the Arab Spring” for //National Review//, http://www.nationalreview.com/david-pryce-jones/276877/whither-arab-spring
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Israeli ambassador to Cairo__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> __another dire round of self-destruction.__

**US should bombard Iran with free internet – that causes a democratic revolution there** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reza </span>**Zia-Ebrahimi****10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span>**Politics of the Middle East at the Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (published in the guardian, Politics of the Middle East at the Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford tutor//jh), 2/24/10, “Bombard Iran… With Broadband” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/feb/24/iran-protest-internet-satellite</span>
__Washington and other western capitals seem to …__ __solving the dilemma of American non-interference.__

**<span style="color: black;">Key to arab spring </span>**
**Takeyh, 11. - Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Center for Foreign Relations** Ray (Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Center for Foreign Relations, John M. Olin Fellowship; Sir Raymond Carr Award; Arnold Bryce and Read Award in Modern History, Oxford University//jh), 6/15/11, “Vulnerable Iran in Restive Mideast,” interview for CFR, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cfr.org/iran/vulnerable-iran-restive-mideast/p25276]]</span>
__The leadership of the Green Movement, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Where is it on the horizon? It's impossible to predict.</span>

**That solves global democracy** 
**Puddington,** **director of research at Freedom House,** **11.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Arch Puddington”Democracy’s Stake in the Arab Spring “Israel Journal of foreign Affairs V : 3 (2011) (http://israelcfr.com/documents/5-3/5-3-3-ArchPuddington.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Until the Arab Spring, the Middle East also boasted more … </span> **__it will, as well, set back the cause of freedom everywhere else.__**


**Empirical research since 95 proves—digital media is the most common ingredient in democratization – US leadership and Iran are key** 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Howard, prof at university of Washington, 11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Phillip N Howard, Professor at the University of Washington, The Arab Spring’s Cascading Effects, Miller-McCune News, Feb 23, 2011 ([[http://www.miller-mccune.com/politics/the-cascading-effects-of-the-arab-spring-28575/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Over the last few months, social unrest has cascaded across … understanding the ingredients for democratization — and especially digital media.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China</span>=== 
Contention two is China:
**Money has been allocated to the State Department to promote internet freedom, but they aren’t spending.**
**Dale and Zuckerman, 11.** – **Heritage Foundation's Senior Fellow in Public Diplomacy studies and Research Assistant in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation** Helle and Jessica (Heritage Foundation's Senior Fellow in Public Diplomacy studies, Research Assistant in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation//jh), “U.S. Must Improve Internet Freedom Outreach Effort,” 6/28/11, for the Heritage Foundation http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/06/Freedom-of-Speech-on-the-Internet-US-Must-Improve-Outreach-Effort
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">More than 2 billion people worldwide now have some …</span> __The U.S. must act in defense of global Internet freedom.__

That’s because they can’t decide what to fund.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schulman 8/8</span>/11 (Max, “The State Department’s Shameful Record on Internet Freedom,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/93283/state-department-internet-freedom-china-censorship)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the annual meeting of the Community of Democracies last month in Lithuania…, the GIFC could expand to serve hundreds of millions of Internet users under repressive regimes.</span>

**A portion of the money allocated to the State Department to promote internet freedom will be used to fund global internet freedom consortium – but there’s still time to shift the funding** 
**McMahon and Bennett, Council on Foreign Relations Editor and Research Associate 11.** Robert and Isabella (Council on Foreign Relations Editor and Research Associate//jh), 2/23/11, “U.S. Internet Providers and the ‘Great Firewall of China’” http://www.cfr.org/china/us-internet-providers-great-firewall-china/p9856
__Since 2007, Congress has [[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/24/AR2010102402215.html|__allocated__]] …__ allow Internet-savvy citizens to access blocked pages.

**The GIFC kills china relations** 
**Pomfret, 10.** John (Washington Post Staff Writer//jh), “U.S. risks China's ire with decision to fund software maker tied to Falun Gong” in the Washington Post, 11/5/10, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/05/11/AR2010051105154.html?hpid%3Dtopnews&sub=AR
__"GIFC is an organization run by elements of the Falun Gong cult, … **prevent nuclear weapons proliferation in North Korea and Iran.**__ 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Solves war </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ratliff, 95 – </span>**Senior research fellow at The Hoover Institution**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [</span>William, Senior research fellow at The Hoover Institution, 7/31, “Long-term U.S.-China interests”, The Washington Times, p. A21, Lexis-Nexis]

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Much of the growth and prosperity of the Pacific Rim … </span>__ __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the survival of the world.</span>__

**War escalates** 
The Strait Times, 2000 [“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis] 
The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war …<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span>

===**Solvency**=== 
**<span style="color: black;">We solve your k – we reconceptualize democracy </span>**
**Mostafa, 11. - Professor of International Relations, cairo U** Nadia (Professor of International Relations, at the Political Science Department, Faculty of Economics & Political Science, Cairo University, Founding Director of Center for Civilizational Studies and Dialogue of Cultures//jh), 3/16/11, “Beyond Western Paradigms of International Relations Towards an Islamic Perspective on Global Democracy” Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Studies Association Annual Conference "Global Governance: Political Authority in Transition"
__Reconceptualisation of global democracy beyond Western notions … wider and richer conceptions of global democracy than those provided by western political thought alone.__

**Democracies are better than your k alt that legitimizes global oppression** 
**Shaw, 1, professorial fellow in IR at Roehampton university, london** Martin (<span style="color: black;">professorial fellow in international relations and human rights at Roehampton University, London, </span>honorary research professor of international relations at the University of Sussex//jh), “The unfinished global revolution: intellectuals and the new politics of international relations” in //Review of International Studies,// http://nationalism.org/library/science/ir/shaw/shaw-ris-2001-27-04.pdf
<span class="underline0">The new </span>politics of international relations <span class="underline0">…</span> studvents of international relations and politics, are intertwined. 

**Fails absent US involvement** 
**AEI, 8/18**/11. American Enterprise Institute for Policy Research, “Mixed Response for Iran” in the Summer 2011 edition of the Middle Eastern Quarterly [[http://www.aei.org/article/104019]]
__It is too early to tell whether the revolutions …__ found quick inspiration for their cause as the events unfolded in the region.

===Plan Text=== 
Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase launches of its communications satellites assisting the Islamic Republic of Iran. 
==Greenhill 1AC== 
===Democracy=== 
Contention one is democratization:

Subpoint A—it’s good:

**Global democracy is dying, causing cascading conflicts**
**Kurlantzick, 7/15** -- Counsel on Foreign Relations fellow for South-East Asia 2011. Joshua (Counsel on Foreign Relations fellow for South-East Asia//jh), “Democracy in steep decline around the world” for// The National//, http://www.thenational.ae/news/worldwide/middle-east/democracy-in-steep-decline-around-the-world?pageCount=0//
//In its annual survey, the monitoring group Freedom House, which uses a range of data to assess social, political and economic freedoms, found that global freedom plummeted for the fifth year in a row in 2010, the longest continuous decline in nearly 40 years. In fact, there are now fewer elected democracies than there were in 1995. A mountain of other evidence supported Freedom House's findings. One of the other most comprehensive studies of global democracy, compiled by Germany's Bertelsmann Foundation, uses data examining the ability of democracies to function, manage government and uphold freedoms to produce what it calls the Transformation Index. The most recent index found "the overall quality of democracy has eroded [throughout the developing world] ... the key components of a functioning democracy, such as political participation and civil liberties, have suffered qualitative erosion ... these developments threaten to hollow out the quality and substance of governance". The index concluded that the number of "highly defective democracies" - democracies with institutions, elections and political culture so flawed that they no longer qualified as real democracies - had roughly doubled between 2006 and 2010. The Economist Intelligence Unit's Index of Democracy only further confirmed these findings. The unit analyses democracy using categories for electoral process, pluralism, political participation, political culture, functioning of government and civil liberties. It found that democracy was in retreat around the globe. "In all regions, the average democracy score for 2010 is lower than in 2008," it reported. In 91 of 167 countries it studied, the democracy score had deteriorated in that time period and in many others it had only remained stagnant. Of the 79 nations that it assessed as having some significant democratic qualities, only 26 made the grade as what the EIU calls "full democracies", while the other 53 were ranked only as "flawed democracies" because of serious deficiencies in many of the areas it assessed. In Latin America, Africa, Asia and even most of Africa, coups, which had been a frequent means of changing governments during the Cold War, had become nearly extinct by the early 2000s. But between 2006 and 2010, the military grabbed power in Mauritania, Niger, Guinea-Bissau, Bangladesh, Fiji and Madagascar, among others. In many other developing nations, such as Mexico, Pakistan and the Philippines, the military managed to restore its power as the central actor in political life, dominating the civilian governments that clung to power only through the support of the armed forces. "It's almost like we've gone back to the [Ferdinand] Marcos era," prominent Filipino rights activist and lawyer Harry Roque Jr said, as he waited in his office for the security forces to come and interrogate him. "There's the same type of fear, the same abuses, the same attitude by the military that their actions will never face consequences." Support for democracy has become so tepid in parts of the developing world that many of these coups were cheered: in Niger last year, thousands celebrated the military takeover in Niamey, the capital, in part because the overthrown leader had been destroying the country's democratic institutions. Overall, an analysis of military coups in developing nations over the past 20 years, conducted by David Silverman, my Council on Foreign Relations research associate, found that in nearly 50 per cent of cases drawn from Africa, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East, middle-class men and women either agitated in advance for the coup, or, in polls or prominent media coverage afterwards, expressed their support for the army takeover. Opinion polls also reveal that the quality of democracy is declining, but also that how the public views democracy is deteriorating as well. The Barometer Series of polls uses questionnaires to ask people in a range of nations about their views on democracy. The survey of the African continent has found declining levels of support for democracy in many countries. Meanwhile, in Russia, where hope for democracy was high in the early 1990s, today the New Europe Barometer shows that half of Russians believe it is acceptable to stop having elections if this decision strengthens the country. Elsewhere, in Ecuador, Guatemala, Paraguay, Colombia, Peru, Honduras and Nicaragua, either a minority or only a tiny majority of people think democracy is preferable to any other type of government. Polls and studies of South Asia have revealed similar dissatisfaction. In Pakistan, roughly 60 per cent of respondents in a comprehensive regional survey said the country should be ruled by the army. Even in East Asia, one of the most economically vibrant regions of the world, polls reveal the same rising dissatisfaction with democracy. In fact, several countries in the region have developed what Yu-tzung Chang, Yunhan Zhu and Chong-min Park, who studied data from the regular Asian Barometer surveys, have termed "authoritarian nostalgia". "Few of the region's former authoritarian regimes have been thoroughly discredited," they write, noting that the region's average score for commitment to democracy has fallen in the most recent studies. Even in South Korea, one of the supposed success stories of democracy, the percentage of respondents saying an authoritarian government was preferable under certain circumstances, doubled between 1996 and 2006.//


//**Shared norms and democratic process stop conflict.**//
//**Lynn-Jones 98** – Editor of the peer reviewed journal International Security and Series Editor of Belfer Center Studies in International Security. Sean M (//jh), March, “Why the United States Should Spread Democracy” discussion paper for Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html

In addition to improving the lives of individual citizens in new democracies, the spread of democracy will benefit the international system by reducing the likelihood of war. Democracies do not wage war on other democracies. This absence-or near absence, depending on the definitions of "war" and "democracy" used-has been called "one of the strongest nontrivial and nontautological generalizations that can be made about international relations."[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn51|51]] One scholar argues that "the absence of war between democracies comes as close as anything we have to an empirical law in international relations."[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn52|52]] If the number of democracies in the international system continues to grow, the number of potential conflicts that might escalate to war will diminish. Although wars between democracies and nondemocracies would persist in the short run, in the long run an international system composed of democracies would be a peaceful world. At the very least, adding to the number of democracies would gradually enlarge the democratic "zone of peace." Many studies have found that there are virtually no historical cases of democracies going to war with one another. In an important two-part article published in 1983, Michael Doyle compares all international wars between 1816 and 1980 and a list of liberal states.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn53|53]] Doyle concludes that "constitutionally secure liberal states have yet to engage in war with one another."[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn54|54]] Subsequent statistical studies have found that this absence of war between democracies is statistically significant and is not the result of random chance.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn55|55]] Other analyses have concluded that the influence of other variables, including geographical proximity and wealth, do not detract from the significance of the finding that democracies rarely, if ever, go to war with one another.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn56|56]] Most studies of the democratic-peace proposition have argued that democracies only enjoy a state of peace with other democracies; they are just as likely as other states to go to war with nondemocracies.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn57|57]] There are, however, several scholars who argue that democracies are inherently less likely to go to war than other types of states.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn58|58]] The evidence for this claim remains in dispute, however, so it would be premature to claim that spreading democracy will do more than to enlarge the democratic zone of peace. Two types of explanations have been offered for the absence of wars between democracies. The first argues that shared norms prevent democracies from fighting one another. The second claims that institutional (or structural) constraints make it difficult or impossible for a democracy to wage war on another democracy.
The normative explanation of the democratic peace argues that norms that democracies share preclude wars between democracies. One version of this argument contends that liberal states do not fight other liberal states because to do so would be to violate the principles of liberalism. Liberal states only wage war when it advances the liberal ends of increased individual freedom. A liberal state cannot advance liberal ends by fighting another liberal state, because that state already upholds the principles of liberalism. In other words, democracies do not fight because liberal ideology provides no justification for wars between liberal democracies.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn59|59]] A second version of the normative explanation claims that democracies share a norm of peaceful conflict resolution. This norm applies between and within democratic states. Democracies resolve their domestic conflicts without violence, and they expect that other democracies will resolve inter-democratic international disputes peacefully.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn60|60]]
Institutional/structural explanations for the democratic peace contend that democratic decision-making procedures and institutional constraints prevent democracies from waging war on one another. At the most general level, democratic leaders are constrained by the public, which is sometimes pacific and generally slow to mobilize for war. In most democracies, the legislative and executive branches check the war-making power of each other. These constraints may prevent democracies from launching wars. When two democracies confront one another internationally, they are not likely to rush into war. Their leaders will have more time to resolve disputes peacefully.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn61|61]] A different sort of institutional argument suggests that democratic processes and freedom of speech make democracies better at avoiding myths and misperceptions that cause wars.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn62|62]]

**Even if we don’t solve every conflict, solves escalation and propensity of conflicts**
**Tarzi 07** – professor of economic affairs at Bradley University Shah, Professor of Economic Affairs @ Bradley, Democratic Peace, Illiberal Democracy and Conflict Behavior, International Journal on World Peace, vol 24

Bueno de Mequita, Morrow, Siverson, and Smith are among the few who have sought to overcome the conceptual dilemmas noted above. Specifically they have provided insights on the link between institutions and foreign policy choices with reference to international disputes and conflicts. They find that democratic leaders, when faced with a choice, are more likely to shift greater resources to war efforts than leaders of the autocratic governments because political survival of the elected democratic regime demands successful policy performance, especially as the winning coalition grows. Thus, democratic regimes tend to have a military edge over autocratic regimes in war because of the extra efforts required. Also, "<span style="text-decoration: none;">democratic leaders only choose to fight when they are confident of victory. Otherwise they prefer to negotiate</span>." (22) Bueno de Mequita and his colleagues conclude, <span style="text-decoration: none;">Democrats make</span> relatively <span style="text-decoration: none;">unattractive targets because domestic</span> reselection <span style="text-decoration: none;">pressures cause leaders to mobilize resources for the war effort.</span> This makes it harder for other states to target them for aggression<span style="text-decoration: none;">. In addition</span> to trying harder than autocrats, <span style="text-decoration: none;">democrats are more selective in</span> their<span style="text-decoration: none;"> choice of targets</span>. Defeat typically leads to domestic replacement for democrats, so they only initiate war when they expect to win. These two factors lead to the interaction between polities that is often termed the democratic peace. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Autocrats need a slight expected advantage</span> over other autocratic adversaries <span style="text-decoration: none;">in devoting</span> additional <span style="text-decoration: none;">resources to the war effort</span>. In order to initiate war, democrats need overwhelming odds of victory, but that does not mean they are passive. Because democrats use their resources for the war effort rather than reserve them to reward backers, they are generally able, given their selection criteria for fighting, to overwhelm autocracies, which results in short and relatively less costly wars. Yet, democracies find it hard to overwhelm other democracies because they also try hard. In general, democracies make unattractive targets, particularly for other democracies. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Hence, democratic states rarely attack one another</span>. (23)

**Specifically, democracy stops conflicts in Eastern Europe, Latin America, Africa, and Asia – no transition wars**
**Lynn-Jones 98.** Sean M (Editor, International Security; Series Editor, Belfer Center Studies in International Security//jh), March, “Why the United States Should Spread Democracy” discussion paper for Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html]]//
//Responses: Mansfield and Snyder have advanced an important new argument, but even if partially true, it does not refute the case for spreading democracy internationally. Taken to extremes, the Mansfield/Snyder argument would amount to a case for opposing all political change on the grounds that it might cause instability. Promoting democracy makes more sense than this course, because the risks of democratization are not so high and uncontrollable that we should give up on attempts to spread democracy.//
//First, there are reasons to doubt the strength of the relationship between democratization and war. Other quantitative studies challenge the statistical significance of Mansfield and Snyder''s results, suggest that there is an even stronger connection between movements toward autocracy and the onset of war, find that it is actually unstable transitions and reversals of democratization that increase the probability of war, and argue that democratization diminishes the likelihood of militarized international disputes.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn115|115]] In particular, autocracies are likely to exploit nationalism and manipulate public opinion to launch diversionary wars-the same causal mechanisms that Mansfield and Snyder claim are at work in democratizing states. Mansfield and Snyder themselves point out that "reversals of democratization are nearly as risky as democratization itself," thereby bolstering the case for assisting the consolidation of new democracies.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn116|116]] In addition, very few of the most recent additions to the ranks of democracies have engaged in wars. In Central and Eastern Europe, for example, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia have avoided major internal and external conflicts. Of these countries, only Slovenia was involved in brief series of military skirmishes with Serbia.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn117|117]] Russia has been involved in a number of small wars on or near its borders, but so far it has undergone a dramatic transition toward democracy without becoming very warlike.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn118|118]] There is little evidence of international war in Latin America, which also has witnessed a large-scale transition to democracy in recent years. Countries such as Mongolia and South Africa appear to have made the transition to democracy without going to war. The new democracies plagued by the most violence, including some former Soviet republics and the republics of the former Yugoslavia, are those that are the least democratic and may not qualify as democracies at all.//
//All of this evidence suggests that whatever may have increased the war-proneness of democratizing states in the past may not be present in the contemporary international system. It may be that states making the transition from feudalism to democracy became more war-prone or that the emerging democracies of the 19th century were European great powers that embarked on imperial wars of conquest. These factors will not lead today''s new democracies into war. Finally, if the democratic peace proposition is correct, the higher proportion of democracies in the current international system may further reduce the risk that new democracies will not engage in war, because they will find themselves in a world of many democracies instead of one of many potentially hostile nondemocracies.//
//Second, it is possible to control any risks of war posed by democratization. Mansfield and Snyder identify several useful policies to mitigate any potential risks of democratization. Old elites that are threatened by democratization can be given "golden parachutes" that enable them to at least retain some of their wealth and to stay out of jail.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn119|119]] New democracies also need external assistance to build up the journalistic infrastructure that will support a "marketplace of ideas" that can prevent manipulation of public opinion and nationalistic mythmaking.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn120|120]] Finally, an international environment conducive to free trade//
//can help to move new democracies in a benign direction.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn121|121]]//

//**Those wars go nuclear and escalate**//
//**Diamond 95** – hoover institution senior fellow (Larry Diamond, Hoover Institution senior fellow, co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, December 1995, A Report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and Instruments, Issues and Imperatives,” [[http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm]])//

//OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons</span> continue to <span style="text-decoration: none;">proliferate. The very source of life</span> on Earth, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the</span> global <span style="text-decoration: none;">ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered</span>. Most of <span style="text-decoration: none;">these</span> new and unconventional <span style="text-decoration: none;">threats</span> to security <span style="text-decoration: none;">are</span> associated with or <span style="text-decoration: none;">aggravated by the</span> weakness or <span style="text-decoration: none;">absence of democracy</span>, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness. LESSONS OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY The experience of this century offers important lessons. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Countries that govern</span> themselves <span style="text-decoration: none;">in a truly democratic fashion do not go to war with one anothe</span>r. They do not aggress against their neighbors to aggrandize themselves or glorify their leaders. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Democratic governments do not ethnically “cleanse</span>” their own populations, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and they</span> are much less likely to face ethnic insurgency. Democracies <span style="text-decoration: none;">do not sponsor terrorism</span> against one another. <span style="text-decoration: none;">They do not build weapons of mass destruction</span> to use on or to threaten one another. Democratic countries form more reliable, open, and enduring trading partnerships. In the long run they offer better and more stable climates for investment. <span style="text-decoration: none;">They are</span> more<span style="text-decoration: none;"> environmentally responsible because they must answer to</span> their own <span style="text-decoration: none;">citizens, who organize to protest the destruction of their environments.</span> They are better bets to honor international treaties since they value legal obligations and because their openness makes it much more difficult to breach agreements in secret. Precisely because, within their own borders, they respect competition, civil liberties, property rights, and the rule of law, democracies are the only reliable foundation on which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.//

//**Offense against democratic peace theory doesn’t apply—the plan still builds peace and greatly reduces risk of war**//
//**Lynn-Jones 98.** Sean M (Editor, International Security; Series Editor, Belfer Center Studies in International Security//jh), March, “Why the United States Should Spread Democracy” discussion paper for Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html
The critics of the democratic peace have presented vigorous arguments that have forced the proposition''s proponents to refine and qualify the case for the democratic peace. These criticisms do not, however, refute the principal arguments for the democratic peace. As I argue below, there is still a compelling deductive and empirical case that democracies are extremely unlikely to fight one another. Moreover, the case for spreading democracy does not rest entirely on the democratic-peace proposition. Although those who favor promoting democracy often invoke the democratic peace, the debate over whether the United States should spread democracy is not the same as the debate over the democratic peace. Even if the critics were able to undermine the democratic-peace proposition, their arguments would not negate the case for spreading democracy, because there are other reasons for promoting democracy. More important, the case for promoting democracy as a means of building peace remains sound if the spread of democracy merely reduces the probability of war between democracies, whereas "proving" the democratic peace proposition requires showing that the probability of such wars is at or close to zero.

**Wars have happened isn’t responsive—plan drastically reduces the risk and neg’s empirics are wrong**
**Lynn-Jones 98**. Sean M (Editor, International Security; Series Editor, Belfer Center Studies in International Security//jh), March, “Why the United States Should Spread Democracy” discussion paper for Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/2830/why_the_united_states_should_spread_democracy.html//
//The Argument: Critics of the democratic peace point to apparent wars between democracies as evidence that there is no democratic peace. They frequently cite the War of 1812, the Spanish-American War, Finland''s decision to align with Germany against the Western powers and the Soviet Union during World War Two, the American Civil War, World War One, and the wars that followed the disintegration of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. At least 17 conflicts have been cited as potential wars between democracies.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn93|93]]//
//Responses: There are three reasons to reject the claim that the democratic peace proposition is invalid because democracies may have fought some wars. First, the democratic peace propositionCcorrectly formulated-holds that democracies rarely fight, not that they never fight. In social science it is probably impossible to generate laws with 100% accuracy. Thus the correct formulation of the democratic peace proposition is the statement that democracies almost never go to war with one another.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn94|94]]//
//Second, many of the cases cited do not qualify as "wars" between "democracies." A closer examination of the conflicts in question reveals that the apparent exceptions do not refute the democratic peace proposition. In some cases, one of the participants was not a democracy. In 1812, Britain was not a democracy. Spain''s democratic credentials in 1898 were dubious. Germany in 1914 was not governed by liberal principles and its foreign policy was directed by the Kaiser, not the elected Reichstag.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn95|95]] In other cases, no international war took place. The American Civil War was not an international war. Finland engaged in virtually no direct hostilities with the Western allies during World War Two; it fought almost entirely against communist Russia.[[http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/Library.nsf/wwwdocsname/ISP_AmerDem#fn96|96]]//
//Third, the criticism that democracies have fought one another is irrelevant to deciding whether the United States should export democracy. The spread of democracy makes sense as long as democracies are significantly less likely to go to war with one another. A policy of spreading democracy would be justified if democracies have, for example, avoided war 99.9% of the time; we can decide to spread democracy without debating whether the figure is 99.9% or 100%.//

//**Subpoint B is Iran.**//

//**Iranians want internet**//
//**Bagherpour and Soleimani, 11** – Voice of America’s Persian News Network research analysts. Amir and Roya (Voice of America’s Persian News Network research analysts//jh), 7/22/11, “Oppression 2.0: Iranian Discontent in Cyberspace” for PBS [[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/tehranbureau/2011/07/oppression-20-iranian-discontent-in-cyberspace.html]]
The state of Iranian cyberspace is yet another example of the repressive relationship between the Islamic Republic's government and the people of Iran. A [[http://www.freedomhouse.org/template.cfm?page=664|report]] by Freedom House this April ranked Iran last in regards to Internet freedom. This dismal ranking is based on Iran's "extensive and sophisticated methods of control," which include "tampering with Internet access, mobile-telephone service, and satellite broadcasting; hacking opposition and other critical websites; monitoring dissenters online and using the information obtained to intimidate and arrest them." Yet in spite of the severe restrictions on web usage, Iranians have remained resilient in their attempts to voice their political opinions in the world of social media -- to a degree far greater than is possible in their everyday lives offline. While institutionalized repression precedes the strict government Internet censorship that followed the disputed 2009 presidential vote, a 2008 [[http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/publications/2008/Mapping_Irans_Online_Public|study]] by the Berkman Center for Internet and Society cited Iran's blogosphere as the fourth largest in world, with an estimated 60,000 blogs or more.
According to the [[@http://opennet.net/research/profiles/iran|Open Net Initiative]] and the [[@http://data.worldbank.org/country/iran-islamic-republic|World Bank]], the number of Iranian Internet users has grown sharply: a nation that had fewer than one million Internet users in 2005 had 23 million only three years later, setting Iran miles ahead of its Middle Eastern neighbors. The most recent available statistics are from 2009, when 38.3 percent of the Iranian population had access to the Internet. But since that year and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's disputed reelection, the Iranian regime has revved up its oppressive tactics, targeting those who express independent voices of dissent via cyberspace. While Iran has attempted to enhance broadband penetration in the country, regulatory policies and censorship actions keep household and public Internet speed at a snail's pace to restrict multimedia downloads and high-speed services. Out of fear that people will organize through social media and other platforms, the regime continues to block, filter, and censor content that has the potential to connect and empower Iranians.
No longer a nebulous buzzword, social media is now part of the modern lexicon. Webster's defines it as any form of electronic communication that creates online communities to share information, ideas, and personal content. Similar to older forms of communication such as television, radio, and print, it too can be used for various purposes ranging from basic entertainment to a catalyst for political change. It can be used to promote trade, innovation, even peace itself, or it can be employed to advocate hatred and terrorism.

**US should bombard Iran with free internet – that causes a democratic revolution there**
**Reza Zia-Ebrahimi 10** - Politics of the Middle East at the Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford (published in the guardian, Politics of the Middle East at the Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford tutor//jh), 2/24/10, “Bombard Iran… With Broadband” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/feb/24/iran-protest-internet-satellite//
//Washington and other western capitals seem to lack an efficient policy to support Iran's protest movement. They wish that the so-called green movement could replace the current military-messianic alliance at the country's helm with a more reasonable interlocutor that would be amenable to solve Iran's nuclear dossier, and co-operate in other arenas, chiefly Iraq and Afghanistan.//
//However, thanks to a number of systemic changes, direct logistical, financial or military assistance cannot be contemplated. Yet, there is one option that might prove a highly efficient way of supporting the green movement while avoiding any direct entanglement into Iran's affairs: bombarding the country with high-speed internet access.//
//The internet is a key element in the events currently unfolding in Iran. What has been dubbed the "Twitter revolution" makes extensive use of social networking platforms to disseminate the movement's messages and organise protests. In a country where fair journalistic reporting has become impossible because of government restrictions, Iran's citizen-journalists have used internet resources to provide the world with images of government violence. Similarly, the government seems to be aware of the power of images and information.//
//One of the pillars of its repressive policy has been media propaganda depicting protesters as vandals and stooges of foreign powers. In pursuing this policy, the government actively curtails alternative sources of information in the country (especially the BBC and VOA broadcasts in Persian), thoroughly filters sensitive websites used by protesters to communicate (Facebook, YouTube, Twitter etc) and reduces internet speed to just about nil to render video streaming or uploading impossible. It has even [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/164591ba-16a2-11df-aa09-00144feab49a.html|moved to ban Gmail]].//
//The technology to overcome this already exists. Households and businesses in areas with poor infrastructure [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satellite_internet|connect to the internet]] through satellites. A Japanese satellite, [[http://www.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/winds/index_e.html|Kizuna]], was launched in 2008 [[http://www.betanews.com/article/New-Japanese-satellite-could-boost-Internet-speeds/1203970459|to provide mountainous areas]] of Japan and other parts of East Asia with the world's highest-speed internet connection using 45cm aperture antennas (the same size as existing communications satellite antennas widely used in Iran). The Japanese intend to expand this project into an international one.//
//A number of satellites currently covering Iran's territory can be used to provide internet access. Indeed, the US army, through private subcontractors, successfully [[http://www.24-7pressrelease.com/press-release/new-satellite-internet-service-offered-to-soldiers-in-afghanistan-135821.php|provides its troops]] in Iraq and Afghanistan (where infrastructure is poor or inexistent) with near-high-speed satellite access.//
//The policy framework for such an endeavour is also in place in the US. [[http://mccain.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressOffice.PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=ade0393f-ec45-31ee-ac02-d682e4172703|Congress passed]] a rather secretive bill dubbed the Voice Act (Victims of Iranian Censorship) last summer. Most of its multimillion dollar appropriation has been earmarked "to expand Farsi language broadcasting into Iran". However, it involves a $20m budget for the "development of technologies that will enhance the Iranian people's ability to access and share information; counter efforts to block, censor, or monitor the internet in Iran; and engage in internet-based education programmes and other exchanges online".//
//President Barack Obama signed the act into law last October, but it is unclear if unrestricted internet access for Iranians is one of Washington's priorities at the moment. It should be. Showering Iran with satellite internet would allow Iranians to efficiently fight the regime's monopoly over information, further weakening its legitimacy. This in turn will grow the ranks of the green movement, as more citizens will be able to compare the state media with other sources, and it promises to deepen the rift within the regime itself and among the rank-and-file of the security apparatus. It will allow the Iranian citizen-journalists to wider circulate images and videos of government violence, and coordinate more efficiently their demonstrations.//
//This would be an invaluable help for a movement that the government can currently easily hinder with telecommunication cuts in the wake of large demonstrations. Most importantly, and from a US policy perspective, it would empower Iranians without committing troops or confronting the Iranian regime directly, solving the dilemma of American non-interference.//


//<span class="Underline">**Arab Spring is dying, but it can be salvaged**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Pryce-Jones, 9/12/11**. David (</span>senior editor at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Review|National Review]] magazine//jh), “Wither the Arab Spring” for //National Review//, http://www.nationalreview.com/david-pryce-jones/276877/whither-arab-spring
The Israeli ambassador to Cairo and about eighty other Israelis flew out of Cairo to Tel Aviv on a military plane under cover of darkness. They were lucky to escape with their lives. A huge crowd had attacked the Israeli embassy, overpowering the ninety police on duty, storming into several rooms and throwing files out into the street. The military officers now ruling the country have declared an emergency. Some days ago, Palestinian terrorists from Gaza disguised themselves in Egyptian uniforms and crossed Egyptian territory to attack southern Israel. In the firefight the terrorists and eight Israelis were killed, but so were five Egyptian border guards whom the Israelis identified wrongly. The Muslim Brothers refuse to accept this as the sort of mistake that occurs all too easily in such circumstances, and they have whipped up this crisis in order to break off the treaty that has kept the peace with Israel since 1979. This is a repeat of the earlier row that also originated from Gaza. Turkish Islamists were determined to run the blockade imposed by Israel to prevent the smuggling of weapons to Hamas. Israeli commandos boarded the incoming ship, and in the ensuing fracas killed nine Turkish Islamists. The Israeli government refused to apologize for this act of self-defense, whereupon Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan declared the Israeli ambassador to Ankara persona non grata. Two major Muslim countries have simultaneously experienced, or engineered, a diplomatic confrontation with Israel. On another front, Hamas has its headquarters in Damascus. In the light of the massacres committed daily by the Syrian security forces, Hamas seems to be about to move its headquarters to Cairo. In that case, Hamas may be able to mobilize popular support in Egypt for future terrorism against Israel, greatly inhibiting Israel’s counter-terror options. Later this month the United Nations will be pursuing a two-track anti-Israel policy, voting on the establishment of a Palestinian state, and on a resolution that Israel is uniquely racist. Iranian President Ahmedinejad has promised that he will be attending in New York to make his familiar speech about the imminent genocide of all Jews. Quite possibly all this is posturing, but it is beginning to look as if the Arab Spring is the fancy description of another dire round of self-destruction.

**<span style="color: black;">Iran democratization using social media key to arab spring </span>**
**Takeyh, 11.** - Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Center for Foreign Relations Ray (Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Center for Foreign Relations, John M. Olin Fellowship; Sir Raymond Carr Award; Arnold Bryce and Read Award in Modern History, Oxford University//jh), 6/15/11, “Vulnerable Iran in Restive Mideast,” interview for CFR, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cfr.org/iran/vulnerable-iran-restive-mideast/p25276]]</span>//
//The leadership of the Green Movement, such as it was, made a decision in 2009 that they were going to hollow out the system -- as opposed to confronting it with daily demonstrations -- through defections and pressure on the system. And gradually through such delegitimization, they believed the Islamic Republic would weaken. That's a decision they've made, and to some extent that has been successful. Iran has a presidency that is hobbled and the regime is isolated from its constituents. Nonetheless, the regime remains in power. I can't believe, at the end of the day, that Iran can remain an oasis of autocratic stability in a changing region where the population is becoming much more aware of their rights and are trying to reclaim their rights.//
//I think you can trace the origins of the 'Arab Spring' to June 2009 in Iran, where you had a protest movement with nebulous leadership, that relied on social media to mobilize support. Therefore, what began in Iran, I suspect, will come back to Iran at some point. I don't think the idea of popular protest has been left behind in the Islamic Republic. What will trigger that, I don't know. What <span style="color: #411c0d;">[[@http://english.aljazeera.net/indepth/features/2011/01/2011126121815985483.html|triggered it]]</span> in Tunisia was an individual who was fed up and made a spectacular act of protest. It could be that some event that we don't foresee could trigger that. Where is it on the horizon? It's impossible to predict.//

//**Middle east protest spills over globally – but sustained support is key**//
//**Smith,** sociologist at the University of Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, 2/14 (Jackie, “<span style="color: black;">Many Protests, One Revolution.” </span>[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2011/02/14-9]]) CMR//

//The massive rise of popular protests around the Middle East and North Africa coincided with the convening of the World Social Forum in Dakar, Senegal. While the former were the subject of deserved and extensive media attention, the latter was virtually ignored by mainstream media. Yet all these gatherings of activists should be seen as part of a single, global movement that has been unfolding for over a decade.//
//While protesters in Egypt seek to topple corrupt and authoritarian rulers, activists at the World Social Forum have been doing the long-term and painstaking work of building a global movement to transform the basic structures of our world economy. It is those structures that enable the greed and brutality of individual leaders while maintaining the conditions against which Egyptians, Jordanians, Yemenis as well as Ecuadorans, Indians, and Detroiters are all resisting.//
//A new regime in Egypt will not fundamentally reduce youth unemployment. New leadership in Jordan will not solve the global climate crisis. Changes in local and national governments, without larger structural changes, will not end the land speculation, corporate monopolies, and militarization that plague communities worldwide.//
//While we must support the protests in the Middle East, it is vital that we see how they are connected to other struggles, including the massive protests last fall across Europe as well as the larger and more inclusive global justice movement that has created the World Social Forum process.//
//In <span style="color: #005588;">[[@http://www.pambazuka.org/en/category/features/70670|a recent analysis]]</span> of the Egyptian protests, Horace Campbell identifies the most important characteristics of these “21st century revolutions”://
//The revolutions are made by ordinary people independent of vanguard parties and self-proclaimed revolutionaries;//
//They are network-based and are developing innovative tools and technologies to foster autonomous, horizontal, and cooperative networks;//
//They are led by ordinary people who have taken initiative and stepped up to contribute to the movement’s self-mobilization and its effort at self-emancipation;They rely on and seek to build revolutionary non-violence for self-defense;Their ultimate revolutionary idea is for a world where human beings can live in dignity and freedom from dictatorship and violence//
//What is most amazing about these features of protests in the Middle East and North Africa is that they have been part of popular struggles around the world for quite some time. Indeed, these characteristics can be found in large quantities at the World Social Forum in Dakar, and they have helped shape and sustain countless local and national social forums over the past decade.//
//As governments and empires use force to maintain their preferred world order, another world is being created and nurtured “from below.” We must recognize the many forms the revolution of the 21st century takes and support it in all of its manifestations.//


//**Arab spring infuses Islam into global democracy**//
//**Allen, 9-9** -- Editor of DemDigestMichael Allen, Editor of DemDigest “Arab Spring ‘the strongest answer’ to jihadist ideology behind 9/11“ 9-9-11 http://www.demdigest.net/blog/2011/09/arab-spring-the-strongest-answer-to-jihadist-ideology-behind-911///
//Have the non-violent pro-democracy movements of the Arab Spring destroyed the appeal of the violent ideology that motivated the 9/11 attacks? Or does the West’s failure to win the war of ideas mean that radical Islamism still represent a threat? “There is a newfound conviction that protests, strikes and civil action are more effective than fighting and force,” <span style="color: purple;">said Marwan Shehadeh</span>, a Jordan-based expert on radical Islamist groups and ideology.// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">The Muslim Brotherhood, which long ago disavowed violence, has participated in the political process for years in Jordan and Egypt. But now…. those who identify as jihadis, so-called Salafis, are also participating. The result, he said, will force a contest of ideas between the moderates and the radicals who for decades were able to sell their line of thinking to an audience made receptive by repression and the failure of the political process to produce change.</span> //The Arab Spring has vindicated the conviction “that Arab dictatorships were inherently unstable and that democracy has more appeal to the people of the Middle East than jihadist violence and ideology,” writes Carl Gershman, President of the National Endowment for Democracy, the Washington-based democracy assistance group.Even more than the killing of Osama bin Laden, the revolts in Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Syria, Yemen, and Bahrain “have not only shaken the very foundation of the regional authoritarian order but threatened to unravel our narrative about terrorism,” writes Fawaz Gerges, author of// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">The Far Enemy: Why Jihad Went Global</span> //and// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Journey of the Jihadist: Inside Muslim Militancy</span>//:// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">As the uprisings gained momentum, Al Qaeda was notably absent. The Arab Spring reinforced what many of us have known for a while: Al Qaeda’s core message is in conflict with the universal aspirations of the Arab world. Despite the group’s best efforts, Arabs and Muslims do not hate the West. Rather, they admire its democratic institutions, including free elections, peaceful transition of leadership, and separation of powers. The millions of Arabs involved have neither burned American and Western flags nor blamed the West for their predicament. </span>//The region’s pro-democracy surge killed the myth of Arab exceptionalism, according to the FT’s Gideon Rachman, but also demonstrated the need for political reform to be home-grown and locally-owned:// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">The “Arab spring” has provided support for the neoconservative notion that the Arab world could not – and should not – be exempt from a global trend towards democracy. But it has also illustrated that durable change is much more likely to come from within, than via US intervention.</span> //Recent events confirm that Arab citizens have been moved to protest largely by socio-economic grievances and demands that radical Islamists cannot begin to address: people want jobs not jihad, democracy not dogma. “The Arab Spring and the clamor for democracy across the world shows how redundant al-Qaida has become – it has lost all relevance; its vision of some pan-Islamic Caliphate is not what people want,” according to Anthony Tucker-Jones, author of// <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">The Rise of Militant Islam</span>//. “Ultimately, religious dogma is no substitute for social aspiration and economic achievement.” The region’s pro-democracy movements are “the strongest answer” to the fanaticism that motivated the 9/11 attacks a decade ago, the European Union said today.“Ten years on, the people in the streets of Tunis, Cairo, Benghazi and across the Arab world have sent a strong signal for freedom and democracy,” said EU president Herman Van Rompuy and European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso in a joint statement. “This is the strongest answer to the fatuous hate and blind fanaticism of the 9/11 crimes. “The Sept. 11 attacks were in part inspired by a radical ideology and belief that the fundamental problems plaguing Arab and Muslim people could be resolved by attacking foreign powers, those propping up dictators, promoting Western culture, oppressing Islam and corrupting civilization,” according to Michael Slackman and Mona El-Naggar**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">: </span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">The Arab Spring has turned that formula inside out, negating premises fundamental to a world that bore and nurtured Osama bin Laden. Arab majorities, still harboring resentment toward Western policies, are first looking inward to promote change, blaming their own leaders for decades of political, economic and cultural decline. There is a degree of societal introspection taking place, one that was pointless in totalitarian societies that discouraged, and often punished, civic participation. </span>

//**<span style="color: black;">Solves global democracy </span>**//
//**Mostafa, 11.** - Professor of International Relations, cairo U Nadia (Professor of International Relations, at the Political Science Department, Faculty of Economics & Political Science, Cairo University, Founding Director of Center for Civilizational Studies and Dialogue of Cultures//jh), 3/16/11, “Beyond Western Paradigms of International Relations Towards an Islamic Perspective on Global Democracy” Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Studies Association Annual Conference "Global Governance: Political Authority in Transition"
Reconceptualisation of global democracy beyond Western notions is needed. If global democracy is to be truly global, then theoretical mapping of the idea cannot be limited to Western literature and Western experiences. Otherwise there is a unilateral hegemony, which is itself highly undemocratic. Building a concept of global democracy must therefore include non-Western others, including Muslim thought. Islam offers a possible alternative frame of reference that sees global democracy from a different angle. It should be stressed that Islam and democracy are not in contradiction. On the contrary, Islam has a rich tradition of thinking about democracy, although it encompasses various schools of thought. Hence there is no more a single Islamic idea of democracy than there is a single Western approach. In addition, Islamic scholarship has long engaged with international dimensions and contexts of democracy. Thus the problem is not that Islam has no ideas to contribute to debates about global democracy, but that these notions have so far not spread beyond the narrow confines of Islamic studies to wider social enquiry. An Islamic paradigm of global democracy could highlight six main points. First, the religion of Islam provides an account of the human condition that can underpin a commitment to global democracy. Islam posits that people everywhere on earth share common possibilities and challenges of being human, a shared experience that provides foundations for a global demos. Second, the Islamic notion of al-‘Umma (the community of faith) offers a nonterritorial alternative to the nation-state as a basis for collective identity and solidarity in global politics. The concept of the Umma underlines the principle that ‘the people’ in a democracy do not have to be bound to a particular country. Members of a demos can – as in the case of the Muslim community – be spread across the whole of the planet. Indeed, third, Islam emphasises the notion of a global community of humanity, regardless of faith.The idea of the Umma could, on a certain reading of the Qur’an (the Islamic Holy Book) and the Sunnah (the sayings and deeds of the Prophet Muhammad) be stretched to encompass a unity of humankind. Fourth, Islam contributes to conceptions of global democracy with its recognition of and respect for diversity in this global community. Islam regards diversity in humanity as a result of divine wisdom. Global democracy is tasked with providing a governance frame for the peaceful coexistence of difference. Fifth, Islam highlights the interconnection of global democracy and global justice. Islamic ethics hold that only those who are capable of bringing about positive change towards social justice are entitled to power in global affairs. Peaceful coexistence of difference is not sustainable in a situation of intolerable global inequalities. Sixth, where undemocratic global power works against global justice, Islam prescribes resistance by Jihad (‘struggle’). This struggle can take a wide range of forms, both peaceful and forceful. A major debate among Muslims in contemporary struggles for global democracy is how best to wage jihad in the defence of human rights and self-determination, particularly when powerful anti-democratic forces are so ready to employ violent coercion backed by talk of a ‘clash of civilizations’. In sum, then, Islam can contribute to conceptions of global democracy with its concentration on the human condition, its ideas of nonterritorial community, its strivings for intercultural harmony, its insistence on social justice, and its recognition of the need for struggle to achieve a just global democracy. These ideas can combine with other visions from the global south to offer wider and richer conceptions of global democracy than those provided by western political thought alone.

**Internet key**
**Palfrey, 11.** -- Harvard Law School John (Henry N. Ess Professor; Vice-Dean, Library and Information Resources, Harvard Law School//jh), 2/23/11,// Internet democracy: Statements// for The Economist, http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/662/print/all
The internet is inherently a force for democracy. That will not necessarily always be true, but it is the case today, given its present architecture and the way that people use the network.
Uprisings in Egypt, Tunisia and across the Middle East and North Africa this month offer the most recent manifestation of the power of the use of internet. To start with the obvious limitations of the argument: no technology will make people take to the streets. There must be a reservoir of anger at the state of affairs and desire to improve society. There must be baseline levels of literacy, education, infrastructure and technological skill among would-be protestors, and so forth. With these conditions present, the use of the internet cuts in favour of democracy.
The clearest evidence in favour of this premise is that the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, faced with protesters in the streets of Cairo who were actively using social media to co-ordinate and project their efforts on the ground, decided he would shut down the network altogether. As the story goes, Mr Mubarak placed six phone calls to the big internet service providers and mobile telecommunications companies and told them to shut down the network. Researchers have shown that his shutdown was largely effective as a technical matter: network traffic dropped 90% or more. But Mr Mubarak's gambit failed.
The key facts are not those related to the ultimate outcome of the story. We should focus neither on the fact that the network came back up, nor on the fact that Mr Mubarak's regime fell. The crucial fact is that, when decision-time came, Mr Mubarak did not seek to use the network to his advantage. He decided that it was better for him, as he sought to cling to power, to take the tools away from the protesters. If the internet fundamentally somehow favours autocrats over dissidents, Mr Mubarak would have made a different decision in his moment of crisis.
Leaders across the Middle East and North Africa have reason to empathise with Mr Mubarak. The most distinctive feature of the use of the internet and digital media in the past few months is the regional nature of the protests. One of the most important ways in which the internet favours those who seek to advance democracy is the effect of people in one geographic location seeing clearly what is happening elsewhere in their region. This particular story is still unfolding. After dramatic events in Tunisia and Egypt, people are in the streets in Libya and Bahrain. Smaller, sympathetic protests are taking place throughout the region and in social spaces online. Part of what is powerful about the network is the connection of people who share a common language and relationships to their state, religion and social norms. (Autocrats presumably might use social media to connect with one another and to co-ordinate their resistance, but their numbers are, of course, much smaller.

===China=== 

**Contention two is China:**

**Money has been allocated to the State Department to promote internet freedom, but they aren’t spending.**
**Dale and Zuckerman, 11.** – Heritage Foundation's Senior Fellow in Public Diplomacy studies and Research Assistant in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation Helle and Jessica (Heritage Foundation's Senior Fellow in Public Diplomacy studies, Research Assistant in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation//jh), “U.S. Must Improve Internet Freedom Outreach Effort,” 6/28/11, for the Heritage Foundation http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/06/Freedom-of-Speech-on-the-Internet-US-Must-Improve-Outreach-Effort//
//More than 2 billion people worldwide now have some degree of access to the Internet, a figure that has doubled over the past five years. Yet while the Internet is emerging as an increasingly powerful tool for political activism, governments around the world are also becoming more expert at controlling electronic communication. As part of the U.S. effort to defend freedom of speech and expression throughout the globe, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has asserted the Administration’s dedication to Internet freedom time and time again. Actions, however, speak louder than words. U.S. Agencies and Appropriations It took the State Department more than three years to allocate the $50 million given to the department by Congress for its global Internet freedom efforts. In this year’s Continuing Resolution, Congress gave another $20 million to the State Department and $10 million to the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) to further pursue their Internet freedom agendas. This time around, the funding must move more speedily and efficiently to invest in proven technologies and fill gaps in private-sector investment. At the same time, the U.S. government should call attention to those countries that are the worst perpetrators of Internet censorship. These offenses are already recorded in the State Department’s Annual Human Rights Report to Congress. Internet Freedom’s Worst Offenders In January, Freedom House released “Freedom on the Net 2011: A Global Assessment of the Internet and Digital Media,” examining Internet freedom in 37 countries across the globe.[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/06/Freedom-of-Speech-on-the-Internet-US-Must-Improve-Outreach-Effort#_edn1|[1]]] Most of the worst offenders are no surprise. At the top of the list were: Iran, Burma, Cuba, China, Tunisia, Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia, Belarus, Bahrain, and Thailand. The report shows that threats to Internet freedom continue to grow. In 19 of the 37 countries examined, the Internet was subject to some degree of centralized control. In Egypt, for example, the decision of the government to completely shut down the Internet for five days in the midst of political upheaval and protests this past January showed the power of such centralized control. Further, in 12 out of the 37 countries examined, officials imposed repeated blocks or bans on popular social networking and media sharing sites, such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube. Bloggers and other Internet users were arrested in 23 of the 27 nations, while activists’ networks were targeted or under surveillance in at least 12 countries. Freedom House is not the only one tracking the perpetrators of cyber repression. Each year on World Day Against Cybercensorship, March 12, Reporters without Borders publishes its own list of “Internet enemies.”[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/06/Freedom-of-Speech-on-the-Internet-US-Must-Improve-Outreach-Effort#_edn2|[2]]] Citing many of the same top offenders, this year Reporters without Borders highlighted the oppressive cyber policies of Burma, China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam. As of March of this year, these countries had some 119 netizens behind bars—China, Vietnam, and Iran being the worst offenders. Disconcertingly, the mass Web-filtering tools used by Middle Eastern and North African governments are often created by Western companies. According to a recent report by the OpenNet Initiative, a collaborative effort between several universities dedicated to exposing and analyzing Internet filtering operations, McAfee, Websense, Blue Coat Systems, Palo Alto Networks, and Netsweeper have all sold their Web-filtering systems to repressive regimes that use these products to censor Web content. Websense has publicized a clear policy that it “does not sell to governments or Internet Service Providers (ISPs) that are engaged in government-imposed censorship,” but it has sold a product to Yemen that filters content and also prevents users from disguising their identity from monitors. In defense of their actions, these companies argue that they have no control over how clients use their products, just as a car company does not have responsibility for how people operate its vehicles. While at some level this argument seems reasonable, it does not account for the fact that many of these companies have not only provided the regimes with the requisite software, but also continually update the list of URLs that are filtered through the program. This updating has an immediate effect on the information that entire nations of people can access. Slow to Act In February, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton reasserted the Department of State’s dedication to Internet freedom, committing to “a comprehensive and innovative approach—one that matches our diplomacy with our technology, secure distribution networks for tools and direct support for those on the front lines.”[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/06/Freedom-of-Speech-on-the-Internet-US-Must-Improve-Outreach-Effort#_edn3|[3]]] The actions of the department, however, have not fully matched this commitment. While the State Department dragged its feet on doling out its funding, the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) stepped up. With its modest amount of funding—$1.5 million—the BBG gave a grant to the Global Internet Freedom Consortium, run by the Chinese-exiled Falun Gong religious sect, specializing in developing and deploying anti-censorship technologies. The Global Internet Freedom Consortium supports the proliferation of the anti-censorship programs Ultrareach and Freegate, just two of the proven circumvention technologies on the market. Within the Department of State, however, $28 million of the total $50 million received by the State Department for promoting Internet freedom remained unallocated until May of this year. Noting this fact, Congress gave the department only $20 million in fiscal year 2011 and gave the BBG another $10 million. State has since announced its plans to allocate the funds “like venture capitalists,”[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/06/Freedom-of-Speech-on-the-Internet-US-Must-Improve-Outreach-Effort#_edn4|[4]]] offering grants to fund the further development of circumvention technologies and to help train activists fighting cyber repression across the globe. Congress should continue to hold State to this commitment. Further U.S. Action Needed The Administration should: Spend Internet freedom funds wisely. Funds to support Internet freedom ought to be efficiently directed toward providing an incentive for private companies to design more effective firewall circumvention technologies. The BBG has enjoyed a degree of success in funding the Global Internet Freedom Consortium. Speak out against Internet freedom’s worst offenders. The U.S. should continue to unequivocally condemn nations who jail citizens for communicating on the net. Offenses can be recorded in the Annual Human Rights Report. The U.S. should let every nation know that its status as a free nation depends not only on its human rights record but also on the degree to which it restricts freedom of expression over the Web. Encourage other nations to join a coalition, which could provide the venue for “naming and shaming” offenders. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) provides a model for voluntary inter-governmental cooperation. Its purpose is combating money laundering and terrorist financing, and it encourages the development of national and international policies in member nations. An international Internet Freedom Task Force could similarly encourage the protection of freedom of expression on the Internet. It is time for the State Department to end the empty promises and stop hoarding scarce funds. The U.S. must act in defense of global Internet freedom.//

//**That’s because they can’t decide what to fund.**//
//<span style="text-decoration: none;">Schulman 8/8</span>**/11** (Max, “The State Department’s Shameful Record on Internet Freedom,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/93283/state-department-internet-freedom-china-censorship)//
//At the annual meeting of the Community of Democracies last month in Lithuania, Secretary of State Hillary <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">Clinton struck a characteristic note of cautious idealism in support of Internet users living under repressive governments: “Because technology both empowers and endangers your work, we are giving activists new tools to try to circumvent the many obstacles that governments are putting in your way.”</span> In a February speech Clinton gave at George Washington University, she said roughly the same thing: “There is a debate currently underway in some circles about whether the Internet is a force for liberation or repression. … [We] support a burgeoning group of technologists and activists working at the cutting edge of the fight against Internet repression.” This is complicated, Clinton finds new ways to say with every speech, but we’re doing all the right things. <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">Official U.S. policy unequivocally favors a “free and open Internet” and opposes repressive censorship regimes worldwide through the best available means.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">But, in reality, this isn’t exactly true. An examination of the State Department’s record of its 18-month-old Internet freedom agenda reveals significant failures</span>, both <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">in</span> overall <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">funding</span> efforts and in the omission of vital tools from its approach to helping activists crack through the layers of censorship imposed by repressive regimes. <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">Before democracy advocates abroad can truly take heart in Clinton’s words, the department needs to admit to past mistakes and adopt a truly comprehensive approach to addressing the issue.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">FRUSTRATION WITH THE State Department’s sluggishness in allocating funds to address Internet freedom issues has simmered for some time</span>. As far back as January 2010, a bipartisan group of five senators wrote to Clinton demanding greater accountability for the department’s funding process, and, at a March 2010 press conference, Senator Sam Brownback threatened to place holds on State nominees if swifter action wasn’t taken. He declared, “The stakes are too high for bureaucracy and excuses.” That same month, <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">Internet freedom activist and former ambassador to Hungary Mark Palmer testified before the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, arguing that he had “never been more appalled at the State Department’s refusal to do what is so clearly in the national interest of the United States.”</span>//
//Part of the problem is that <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">the State Department has simply been slow to spend the money that certain zealous members of Congress have allocated to their pet cause. </span>In the aftermath of Clinton’s February speech, <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">critics in the press noted the department’s failure to distribute approximately $30 million in Internet freedom funds, despite receiving dozens of grant proposals for many times that amount.</span> Indeed, <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">in 2010, the department was allocated $30 million to promote Internet freedom, but the fact sheet accompanying Clinton’s February speech said the department issued just over $5 million in grants the previous year.</span> This spring, State officials further annoyed their congressional overseers by reducing their requested Internet freedom funding from $10 million to zero <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">for Fiscal Year 2012</span>. The request was overruled by <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">Congress</span>, which <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">allocated $20 million in dedicated Internet freedom funding.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">Another large point of contention is the State Department’s decisionmaking regarding which new technologies to fund—and which to exclude from funding</span>. In June, The New York Times published a long story extolling the department’s efforts in funding the development of “mesh network” technology—sometimes also referred to as “the Internet in a suitcase”—designed to bypass the government-monitored Internet by creating alternative local networks that connect devices directly. The technology can be used to quickly create large local area networks within a city, but it doesn’t solve the problem of bypassing state-run firewalls to connect with the broader Internet from within a censored nation. Rather than extol this partial victory, however, many Internet freedom activists were furious, regarding the Times story as further confirmation that their preferred technology—“circumvention software” that allows users to get around the firewalls of oppressive regimes—was once against getting the cold shoulder from the department.//
//Indeed, <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">a substantial fractionof Clinton’s critics have focused on the department’s failure to support specific anti-censorship “circumvention” technology</span>. Senator Dick Lugar and <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">others</span>, including high-profile journalists Jackson Diehl and Anne Applebaum of The Washington Post and Nicholas Kristof of The New York Times, <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">have championed the cause of a group called the Global Internet Freedom Consortium. A prominent alliance of software companies that has repeatedly sought and been denied State Department funding, the group includes the makers of several Internet censorship circumvention tools like Ultrasurf and Freegate, sophisticated pieces of software that allow users to bypass Internet restrictions like China’s “Great Firewall” to visit blocked sites while masking their own IP addresses.</span> Proponents of the technology cite claims of nearly one million daily users worldwide and say that the GIFC is constrained only by its small budget, which forces it to make tough choices when surges in demand, as during the 2009 Iranian protests, exceed the limited capacity of its servers. With sufficient funding, according to supporters including Lugar and The Washington Post editorial board, the GIFC could expand to serve hundreds of millions of Internet users under repressive regimes.//

//**A portion of the money allocated to the State Department to promote internet freedom will be used to fund global internet freedom consortium – but there’s still time to shift the funding**//
//**McMahon and Bennett, 11**. Robert and Isabella (Council on Foreign Relations Editor and Research Associate//jh), 2/23/11, “U.S. Internet Providers and the ‘Great Firewall of China’” http://www.cfr.org/china/us-internet-providers-great-firewall-china/p9856
Since 2007, Congress has [[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/24/AR2010102402215.html|allocated]] $50 million in the State Department's Budget for firewall-breaching technology, which provides citizens living under repressive regimes access to blocked content. However, some critics such as former U.S. Senator Sam Brownback (R-KA) argue that [[@http://www.state.gov/secretary/rm/2010/02/137227.htm|none of the funding ]]has actually reached the firewall-busting firms that form the Global Internet Freedom Consortium and are considered the most effective in helping users surmount the firewall.
Are other states controlling the Internet so strenuously? Many other states limit or even forbid access to the Internet. The ONI says Iran also "continues to expand" its already [[@http://opennet.net/research/profiles/iran|extensive Internet censorship system]], using a sophisticated filtering network to counter the rapid growth of Farsi-language blogs and websites. The International Federation of Journalists [[@http://mena.ifj.org/en/articles/ifj-demands-overhaul-of-repressive-media-laws-in-the-middle-east|reports]] that most countries in the Middle East and North Africa also jail reporters who criticize their regimes.
Bambauer says China's efforts at censorship are being watched closely by other closed societies. "We think absolutely that China is a model. It's certainly a model for Vietnam, for Central Asian countries like Uzbekistan, especially when you consider that China sells bandwidth to other states, outsourcing censorship."
Are there ways of circumventing Chinese controls? Among the intended recipients of State Department aid to the Global Internet Freedom Consortium are software programs known as [[@http://download.cnet.com/Freegate/3000-2085_4-10415391.html|Freegate]] and [[@http://www.technologyreview.com/printer_friendly_article.aspx?id=22252|Ultrareach]], which allow Chinese users to set up proxy servers and circumvent controls for free. Additionally, media reports from China and the statements of dissidents indicate that many things targeted for censorship do get through government filters. Virtual private networks (VPN) or Internet proxies are also relatively [[@http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTOE60P0A120100128|accessible within China (Reuters)]] and allow Internet-savvy citizens to access blocked pages.

**The GIFC kills china relations**
**Pomfret, 10.** John (Washington Post Staff Writer//jh), “U.S. risks China's ire with decision to fund software maker tied to Falun Gong” in the Washington Post, 11/5/10, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/05/11/AR2010051105154.html?hpid%3Dtopnews&sub=AR
"GIFC is an organization run by elements of the Falun Gong cult, which is bent on vilifying the Chinese government with fabricated lies, undermining Chinese social stability and sabotaging China-U.S. relations," said Wang Baodong, spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington. "We're strongly opposed to the U.S. government providing whatever assistance to such an anti-China organization."
The decision to fund GIFC followed a three-year lobbying campaign by Washington insiders, congressional pressure and opposition from some human rights advocates and Internet experts. It was also controversial within the Obama administration, sources said, despite the commitment of [[http://www.whorunsgov.com/Profiles/Barack_Obama|President Obama]] and Secretary of State [[http://www.whorunsgov.com/Profiles/Hillary_Rodham_Clinton|Hillary Rodham Clinton]] to Internet freedom.
Some officials worried that Beijing would view as a hostile act U.S. financial support for a group that China says has agitated for the overthrow of its government. Others were concerned the funds would get in the way of the Obama administration's broader engagement with China on issues as varied as climate change, the global financial crisis and efforts to prevent nuclear weapons proliferation in North Korea and Iran.

**US-China cooperation is critical to prevent extinction.**
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Ratliff, 95 – </span>Senior research fellow at The Hoover Institution<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';"> [</span>William, Senior research fellow at The Hoover Institution, 7/31, “Long-term U.S.-China interests”, The Washington Times, p. A21, Lexis-Nexis]

Much of the growth and prosperity of the Pacific Rim countries in general – ranging from Japan and China through Southeast Asia to the United States and the Pacific Coast of South America – depends on peace and stability in East Asia. The United States and China must lead other nations in fostering this peace and stability. Today, this means cooperating on such varied issues as the potential nuclear threat of North Korea, the resolution of the China-Taiwan controversy and the exploration of – and safety of sea lanes through – the South China Sea, the superhighway of the Southeast Asian economic miracle. These matters will recur, and other problems unforeseen today will turn up, in the years ahead. So the world spins. To be sure, cooperation often will not be easy, for fear as to Chinese intentions pervades Washington and suspicions of U.S. motives remain widespread here in China. Americans, for example, are particularly concerned at the size of the Chinese military budget and what Beijing intends to do with its modernized and expanded military capacity. Thus as Mr. Perry noted, increasing contacts between the militaries of the two countries, and each nation's clearer understanding of the defense policies and strategic intentions of the other, are essential. This was the particular importance of Mr. Perry's visit to the PLA gathering, a type of exchange both sides must foster in the future for everyone's good. Short-term issues are not necessarily unimportant because they are short-term, but they must be worked out by each side having consistent policies the other can understand that look beyond short-term problems to longer-term interests. The high probability is that the United States and China will be the two superpowers of the early 21st century and our living together in peace will be <span style="text-decoration: none;">essential to</span> the prosperity if not the survival of the world.

**War escalates**
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">The Strait Times, 2000</span>[“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis]
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';"> -horror of horrors -</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">raise the possibility of a nuclear war</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate,</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">east Asia will be set on fire</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order.</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">. In south Asia,</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confrsonted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability,</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;"> there is little hope of winning a war against China</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">50 years later,</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">short of using nuclear weapons</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass,</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">we would see the destruction of civilization</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">might seem inconceivable, it</span> <span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">cannot be ruled out entirely</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif';">Plan Text</span>=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase launches of communications satellites assisting the Islamic Republic of Iran.

==2ACs== 
===Politics (Obama Good)=== 

Obama’s political capital is spent – healthcare, no presence, wars, economy.
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Huffington Post 11.** HuffPo [Casey] 6.28.11 Ethan Casey, veteran journalist, author, worked as a foreign correspondent writing for The Globe and Mail, the Boston Globe, the South China Morning Post, and the Observer News Service, among other publications, “The Obama-Shaped Leadership Void” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ethan-casey/the-obamashaped-leadershi_b_885896.html]]</span></span>
It remains more than fair to blame Bush, … Speaker of the House John Boehner?
**If the plan is perceived then it’s a flip flop** 
**Bagherpour and Soleimani, 11.** Amir and Roya (Voice of America’s Persian News Network research analysts//jh), 7/22/11, “Oppression 2.0: Iranian Discontent in Cyberspace” for PBS [[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/tehranbureau/2011/07/oppression-20-iranian-discontent-in-cyberspace.html]]
Meanwhile, __the Obama administration … regime's watchful eye and communicate safely.__ 
**Flip flops destroy political capital**
Michael Fitts, Professor of Law at University of Pennsylvania Law School, January 1996, “The Paradox of Power in the Modern State,” University of Pennsylvania Law Review, p.857
Centralized and visible power, however, becomes a double-edged sword, … as well as its <span class="underline">political illegitimacy and ultimate weakness</span>.
**Plan bipartisan—9/11 momentum for democracy** ** **
**Democracy Digest 9/8**—2011, “9/11 restored bipartisan consensus on strategic value of democracy assistance”,<span style="color: #5891b8;">[[@http://www.demdigest.net/blog/2011/09/911-restored-bipartisan-consensus-on-strategic-value-of-democracy-assistance/]]</span>
The same __commitment to advancing democracy__ … __sharp partisan division__ here at home is worthy of note.”
Winners Win
Green 10 [professor of political science at Hofstra University, David Michael Green, 6/11/10, "The Do-Nothing 44th President ", http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html]
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Moreover, </span>there is a continuously evolving and <span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> now retired Helen Thomas, this is precisely what </span>theydid<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>
=Negative= 
==Strategies== 
Greenhill Round 2 (SPS)
T human
Russia Oil
Wind CP
Weaponization DA (2NR)
Cap K
SKFTA Politics
Case

Greenhill Round 3 (BMD with prolif advantage)
T human (2NR)
Chaloupka K
Weaponization DA
Russia Relations DA
Space Industry DA
Case


==Kritiks== 
===Chaloupka K=== 
====1NC==== 
Why are debaters so obsessed with nukes? This aff, like nearly every aff at this tournament, buys into the framework of nuclearism by allowing nuclear weapons to shape their discussion of policy – this focus on nukes prevents action against them.

Chaloupka 1992 – <span style="color: black;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 1-2, CMR) italics by author </span>

Like few other issues, nuclearism strains to become more than an instance. It aspires to be context and case, to shape public and private life. It seeks a symbolic position of such force that other concerns would arise within the context of nuclear technology, sometimes even when explicit connections are absent. The policies, practices, and discourses of nuclear technology seem to have a capacity to capture attention that rivals even their destructive capability. In short, nuclearism organizes public life and thought so thoroughly that, in another era of political theory, we would analyze it as an ideology. The framework of "survival" or "defense" has become pervasive in Western political cultures, dominating not only the budgets and debates of public life but the more private dimensions as well. In our time, when one dreams of public life, the fantasies may even be atomic.
The level of compulsion attendant to nuclear questions could become a subject of interpretation; a critic could choose to discuss these questions as more fundamental than issues that merely confirm existing frameworks and habits. For citizens of nuclear states, nukes are the metaphors for success and failure, the constraints for experimentation, the analogy for all other "problems." Nonetheless, these same citizens seem reluctant to take nukes so seriously. The background for my project is a suspicion that a sort of conservatism, a slowness to move, characterizes even the most alarmist talk of nukes. The various positions on nuclearism are phrased within familiar political ways of speaking, despite their proponents' considered judgment that precisely these understandings have made the world so different, so dangerous. The nuclearism adopted by states and diplomats presumes a Machiavellian counterbalance of threats, while opponents presume the efficacy of humanist commitment. Despite obvious differences, both positions reinforce contemporary, ideological ways of understanding politics.
Still, there may be openings, hints of recognition that nuclearism is a pattern of its own, not subsumed by existing politics. As the story about Richland High in my introduction might suggest, there are new ways available to think about nuclearism, approaches not yet exhausted by the enormity of the topic. Specifically, there is a lively intellectual approach that has taken a special interest in the question of nuclearism. //Diacritics,// a major journal of literary criticism, published the symposium that gave this approach the name "nuclear criticism." Major figures such as Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault, and Jean Baudrillard have used nukes explicitly as instances of their work, and many other authors have addressed nuclearism in the context of discussions about texts, discourses, and authority.
But, as predictable as a contemporary intellectual's interest in nuclearism might be, there are resistances to remember as well. Nuclearism turns back on such intellectual efforts, carrying special implications and challenges for them, as do only a few other political concerns.1 Given the generally perceived seriousness of nukes, the playfulness and studied irreverence of the language approach seem blatantly inappropriate. Nuclearism obviously confronts deconstruction's critique of totalities, of global ways of understanding politics. Political talk of nukes, on all sides, constantly moves to universalistic levels, almost as if there were a collective wish to replace totalities that no longer hold the spell they once did. Nuclear criticism clearly (or, as Derrida notes, nu-clearly) raises a range of other possibilities. In short, I am trying to portray nuclearism and textual/interpretive approaches as key examples of each other, as an intersection where difference produces previously unclaimed space for political action.
In this chapter, I begin to map that intersection by examining a key universalism contained in most of the politics that engage issues of nuclearism. Survival is a coded position that privileges certain questions and marginalizes others. In this chapter, I want to make aspects of that privilege more explicit, more accessible to controversy. Assigning "survival" the status of summary and goal implies a relatively settled "humanity" that is, one hopes, to survive. One would hardly need to hope that people not survive to bring that code into question (although some radically misanthropic environmentalists playfully take just such a position). Savvy about codes and symbols, the nuclear critic might begin by highlighting what our most universalistic survival codes assume.

Nuclearism forces disciplinary power’s destructive control over populations

Chaloupka 1992 – <span style="color: black;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 16, CMR) </span>

It may be surprising, given the liberal basis of much nuclear opposition, that the issue of control is not one on which pro- and antinuke positions are always clearly distinguishable. Some nuclear opponents have used the threat of annihilation to //justify// control measures, arguing that the controls of the nuclear managers are inadequate. More often, of course, critics cite this control as a reason to eliminate nukes. Critics argue that the amount of citizen control necessary to secure the safety of nuclear civilization is so odious that nukes —rather than safeguards —should be foregone. Once again, we find ourselves in the middle of a strange political situation. Opponents argue for controls (intervening in plant siting proceedings and urging that similar procedures apply to weapon installations), but also use these controls as an argument against nukes. Nuclear managers justify widespread surveillance and disciplinary measures by their observation that the world is so very dangerous, but they then argue that deterrence has stabilized the world under their leadership, and that this action somehow relates to "freedom." Repeatedly, the sign of the paradox presents itself as the characteristic sign of an era that strains to ignore those signs and to present a politics of values in response. Trying to master such awesome exercises as "thinking the unthinkable," we are susceptible to seemingly small, even trivial, moves of power.
Discipline, already at a huge advantage, conceals itself further. The shift of politics into techniques of control accumulates beneath this weighty umbrella of "big" concerns. Political micro controls parallel the claims of nuclear managers, adding stability to every power claim made on behalf of the state. On one level, disciplinary measures are the predictable accompaniment of having so many dangerous weapons and associated facilities. At this straightforward level, it would not be difficult to foresee the need for control. The most famous case of such foresight is probably Einstein's. Within a year after Hiroshima, he imagined a situation that "[would] insidiously change men's lives more completely than did Hitler"; "To retain even a temporary security in an age of total war, government will have to secure total control. Restrictive measures will be required by the necessities of the situation, not through the conspiracy of willful men.
Einstein was correct on oppression and conspiracy, but he was wrong on power. Nuclearism has found a way to spread that power throughout society //without acting.// This is Jean Baudrillard's notion of contemporary power. "The nuclear threat is part of a 'soft' mode of extermination, bit by bit, by deterrence, not at all an apocalyptic term."47 Such power implodes and leukemizes, in Baudrillard's metaphors; its focus is inward. In this instance of power (which clarifies and exemplifies Foucault's controversial argument), there is no action, intention, or conspiracy. Never using its weapons —indeed, founded on the notion that the best force is never used —power can infect everything. It is discursive in the sense suggested by Derrida; this power is only spoken, never used. Outside history, beyond the world of things that have functions and uses, this is precisely poststructuralist power.

Alt text: reject the 1AC in favor of nuclear criticism.

Nuclear criticism is not vapid deconstruction but politically charged – necessary to challenge nuke’s textuality

Chaloupka 1992 – <span style="color: black;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 18-19, CMR) italics by author </span>

As I suggested earlier, nuclear criticism presents a sort of solution for the language-and-politics position as well as for opponents of nukes. Critics accuse deconstruction of falling into a passive nihilism in its avoidance of substance and essence. Edward Said, for example, has criticized this "retreat from [deconstruction's] constituency, the citizens of modern society" in the strongest of terms, but from a position within literary criticism. 51 Nuclear criticism pushes poststructuralism away from its depoliticizing tendency (if that ever was a tendency) while it disproves the charge. The rebuttal is of a congenial form. Lodged firmly within a liberal discourse, nuclear opponents have seldom proceeded beyond a valuebased rejection. In the form of "nuclear criticism," opponents can appropriate a genre specifically appropriate to this task, rejecting universalisms in a way that does not subsequently reconfirm an alternate universalism. This is precisely the language-and-politics project. And since the nuke's "universalism" is explicitly textual, the approaches of literary criticism are precisely appropriate.
While the notions of survival and apocalypse push nuclear opponents in the direction of universalistic, liberal social theory, there are good reasons to reject that perspective. Poststructuralism is more than another take on domination; it is also a position on how that domination can be opposed and what roles its critics can credibly adopt. The special role of nuclear criticism, echoing Said's remarks on politics and broadening them to yet more aspects of public life, is to infuse the various poststructuralist positions with a concern for power. Whatever its faults, nuclear criticism will not leave its practitioners indifferent to the world and to their role as a threat to power, which is how Said has characterized the politics of literary criticism.52

Our framework is that the judge evaluates language and power structures – this is logically prior to any political action and also crafts more effective action

Chaloupka 1992 – <span style="color: black;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 94-95, CMR) italics by author </span>

My reading works, then, on language-and-politics turf captured by Foucault. I am postulating a specific kind of intervention —one that politicizes by noting how language works, without forfeiting the next political response. Foucault claims this odd and important double move with a distinctive two-part challenge to power. Starting with the crisis of representation and character of language that sets that crisis off—shifting and turning away from either the self who uses it or the phenomenon it tries to capture —Foucault moved on to a description of rules and the ways those rules constitute a generally unrecognized realm of power in contemporary society.25 The two moves resonate, one exacerbating the other until legitimacy is drawn into the whirl of contested territory. Foucault's conception of language is what funds the possibility of political response, making it possible that such response is neither an arbitrary imposition, as has been charged, nor a promise of meaning and representation that cannot be fulfilled. Instead, the political response finds its form exactly at the point where old models of language break down. In Foucault's analysis, language holds a different position than we have long expected it to hold. Its mechanisms turn out to be just as reversible as any political interpretation (which is, of course, where that political reversibility begins). Language is ... freed from all of the old myths by which our awareness of words, discourse, and literature has been shaped. For a long time it was thought that language had mastery over time, that it acted both as the future bond of the promise and as memory and narrative; it was thought to be prophecy and history; it was also thought that in its sovereignty it could bring to light the eternal and visible body of truth; it was thought that its essence resided in the form of words or in the breath that made them vibrate. In fact, it is only a formless rumbling, a streaming; its power resides in its dissimulation.26 Rather than fulfilling the role of the master (bonding future promise to past memory, illuminating truth through words), language actually threatens that role. Dissimulation, waiting, and forgetting are more central to language than illuminating (arriving at something that can be illuminated). Its failures forgotten in the continuing stream (or discounted while we wait), language works by seeming to be what it cannot actually be. While it seems to promise clarity about a future it will encounter, language still never gets there; "it is depthless forgetting and the transparent emptiness of waiting." Language, in its attentive and forgetful being, with its power of dissimulation that effaces every determinate meaning and even the existence of the speaker, in the gray neutrality that constitutes the essential hiding place of all being and thereby frees the space of the image —is neither truth nor time, neither eternity nor man; it is instead the always undone form of the outside.27 If language is "neither eternity nor man," and is continually undone, it forms an oscillation, giving only momentary contact with either self or phenomenon. It is a continually "undone" form. Anyone who relies on such a form, which is to say anyone who speaks or writes, will find their positions brought into question, into the vertiginous gap Derrida calls the //aporia.// After all, every political claim originates in language. Furthermore, while the earlier, mistaken view of language that Foucault criticizes had granted a special role to the speaker—the author— this new position undermines the self. Neither originator of meaning nor dupe of a determined, exterior script, the self is constituted in a special way. By settling into "neither truth nor time," language "places the origin in contact with death, or rather brings them both to light in the flash of their infinite oscillation — a momentary contact in a boundless space."28 Rather than solidifying our relations with events and their sequences, language inserts oscillation, dissembly, memory, and waiting. The attempt to solidify foreign policy positions thus runs counter to what occurs within those positions, at their most fundamental levels. But instead of making politics impossible, our recognition of language's shifting, contradictory role enables responses, even if those responses will differ from those enabled by the Enlightenment.
====<span style="text-decoration: none;"> 2NC Alt </span>==== 
**Our alternative is a form of protest that exposes power structures and creates superior politics**
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">–</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 134-135 CMR)</span>

We could, at least, protest against the kind of selves produced in the modern era<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That </span>politics would be cultural, its standards more aesthetic than scientific<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It would be </span>an odd politics<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, because </span>it would not promise answers or any such certainty<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Solutions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, whether mathematical or chemical, </span>would become less important as political metaphors,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and, contrary to the words of deconstruction's many critics, </span>**this would not be the end of politics.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Examples of a better politics abound, available to anyone who has abandoned the "solution" metaphor. Indeed, there exists an argument that makes it </span>necessary<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not optional, </span>to identify "solution" talk as metaphorical, giving the fundamental option of discarding that metaphor to anyone who took all this very seriously<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That is to say, </span>identifying "solution" as a metaphor<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and identifying other metaphors) </span>was not an evasion of the challenge —what's your solution? —but the main work<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>That which must be done to understand where we're at.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is an important implication from that decision. </span>The political approach I have in mind would understand that power continues<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Any political stance based on rising expectations sometimes exaggerates promises.Revolution, transcendence, liberation —all those are dubious promises, producing a falsely certain future in whose name action is justified<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Postmodernism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then, </span>**clears ground for political action**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> —not acquiescence —when it </span>demonstrates that power will not somehow be rendered null, but will be the context of ongoing performance, exposure, release, and recapture<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The demise of promises of generalized liberation is hardly the end of politics. </span>Nordoes that demise even signal that politics has become unappealing, a matter to be avoided<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And </span>it certainly doesn't mean that liberation is now located in some other area<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**There** **//are// still struggles to expose oppression and discipline and surveillance**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>As power is increasingly deployed in ways that do not oppress or dominate, but create us as power's subjects, inscribing its practices into our disciplines and habits, strategies of response will change, not disappear.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And the </span>new responses will share an identifiable pattern.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Successful critique henceforth will come from those who can make what had seemed real, before they addressed it, now seem thoroughly problematic. We enter the era of the puzzle.</span>
====2NC AT: Case outweighs==== 


Turns case
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">–</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 61-62, CMR) italics by author </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is my claim, then, </span>in response to every attempt to strain meaning from these opaque machines: //the computer and the robot are the metonymic processes we use to deal with the nuke////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the nuke has seemed unspeakable, then, we may have been using a metonymy. </span>The computer and the robot<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—parts, implements, and artifacts of nuclearism —</span>compose a Lacanian trajectory of desire.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Displacing questions of censorship (and transgressive responses to its prohibitions) with possibilities of mastery, assimilation, and accomplishment, </span>we deal with Lacan's "desire for something else," with metonymy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.29 </span>Programming the computer or robot, we have controlled the (uncontrollable) bomb<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Familiar with our personal silicon, we simulate some kind of familiarity with remote isotopes controlled by forces inaccessible to us<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>We<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have </span>walk<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ed, seemingly fearlessly, </span>into a (silicon) valley of doom prohibited to us.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As Deleuze and Guattari emphasize, this displacing process continually breaks away from the ego, canceling it with several identifiable processes</span>. The law tells us: You will not marry your mother, and you will not kill your father. And we docile subjects say to ourselves: so //that's// what I wanted!<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> . . . There we have a ... displacement. For what really takes place is that the law prohibits something that is perfectly fictitious in the order of desire or of the "instincts," so as to persuade its subjects that they had the intention corresponding to this fiction.30 Deleuze and Guattari repeatedly use that exclamation —"So that's what I wanted!" —to bring a metonymy to the fore. This process can be applied to our discussion of nukes. </span>Faced with the Law, the egoistic expression of values, we exclaim, "nobody could possibly want nuclear war." But, unmistakably war preparations are everywhere. The reverse logic of deterrence —the weird mission of preparing nukes never to be used — comes home to roost<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Desire breaks out of the censorship planned for it<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**Even if nobody wants nuclear war, people are acting as if they do. So** **//that's//** **what I wanted**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">! In this way, </span>the simple repression ofnuclearism that liberal humanism tries to turn into a first value, a base agreement, twists out of control. A metonymy forms under the sign of the exclamation heard constantly in American political talk over the last forty years: "Nuke 'em!

**And, no value in survival. Their constant striving for “survival” relies on a Nieztschean God – deconstruct this plz**
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">–</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 3-4, CMR) italics by author </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps </span>the central political metaphor of antinuclearists involves the appeal to survival of the human species<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a principle that can guide social and political response. But after Jonathan SchelPs </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fate of the Earth </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">presented that case, the narrowness of this appeal began to draw criticism. As Robert Jay Lifton has noted, the emergence of neo-Nazi survivalists is not without consequence for nuclear opponents who have used the survival language so extensively themselves.3 Schell broadened his metaphors in </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Abolition,</span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4 </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and nuclear opponents in general have tried to define survival in a way that is not individualist.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nonetheless, recent essays by political theorist George </span>Kateb<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> bring even that modified project into question, finding within the "survival" position an indefensible replacement totality.5 Kateb's critique </span>focuses on the political metaphysics implied by the survival position. To turn "existence" into a principle that could inform action is to ignore many other philosophical commitments<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> made in this century. The </span>metaphysical privileging of existence<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as key to a great and total meaning (that might motivate political action in a classically liberal framework) </span>is unavailable "in an age when the death of God has been announced with adequate plausibility<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." 6</span>
Existence does not have systemic attributes amenable to univocal judgments<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. At least some of us cannot accept the validity of revelation, or play on ourselves the Kantian trick of regarding existence </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as if </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">it were the designed work of a personal God, or presume to call it good, and bless it as if it were the existence we would have created if we had the power, and think that it therefore deserves to exist and is justifiable just as it is. No: these argumentative moves are bad moves; they are Kateb wants to articulate a defensible "attachment to existence" without relying on "any kind of totality." </span>Existence cannot be justified by any "internal" or human standarddeveloped independently of a supposed divine authentication<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That is to say, </span>attachment cannot be cultivated by way of a theology<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> . . . or by way of a believable reconciliation to the facts of wickedness, suffering, waste, cruelty, obscenity, and death. The universe . . . is without sponsorship; and existence on earth fails every test that is strenuously pressed. . . . What is needed is precisely a mode that is content not to make the world —human and natural existence on earth —into a story, a picture, an order or a pattern . . . that is, into a self-adequate totality or into a necessary part of a transcendent totality.8 The puzzle we retain, after Nietzsche, is to find a way to establish hu- man value without the aid of an external totality (whether religious, scientific, or merely commonsensical).9 </span>Kateb's strategy is to shift attention to the institutional and philosophical contexts within which this discussion of survival proceeds. Such a broadening of the question could confront the excessive individualism that otherwise makes "survival" a suspect theme<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If the extreme individualism of this century cannot be absorbed into metaphysics, Kateb claims, it is still the case that individualism and the institutions of democracy are not easily dismissed: "Individualism in some of its developments after the seventeenth century contains . . . saving thoughts and feelings. The great work of Emerson, Thoreau, and Whitman comprises the main development, and the phrase 'democratic individuality' perhaps best names their idealism."10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To broaden these saving possibilities within individualism, Kateb (in a surprising move, for him) suggests that we take heart from the "antidemocratic individualist doctrines of Nietzsche and Heidegger," both writers who influence contemporary language approaches. "The best defensive idealism is individualism," but "the self-surpassing of both rightsbased individualism and existentialist individualism is the unique source of a selfless and saving attachment."1! In short, without adopting the categories I am attaching to this position, Kateb poses the possibility of a historical, yet ambivalent and even </span>poststructuralist, individualism —a political form of nuclear criticism —as a response to the broad crisis of meaning in the late modern era.

====AT Perm==== 
**Mutually exclusive – aff attempts at certainty and a localized response to nuclearism while still sustaining the system dooms the alt**
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">–</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 103-104 CMR) </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">**”Lifestyle proponents” are people who try to change their lifestyle and passively subvert the system on an individual level – “yuppies”**</span>

The point for the lifestyle proponents may be to present their position as enduring irony, unlikely to be domesticated, resolutely irresolute<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The model here is the artist:back and forth, eddying from criticism to expression before starting again, differently this time<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.54 </span>No certainty is available; the language-and-politics position has accurately observed the end of that possibility.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But </span>the possibility for interventions against power is hardly made unfeasible by this lack of certainty**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Foucault concluded his brief discussion of ecology politics with a calibration of just such an opening: </span>We could criticize politics<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> —beginning for example with the effects of the state of domination . . . —but we could only do this </span>by playing a certain game of truth, showing what were the effects, showing that there were other rational possibilities, teaching people what they ignore about their own situation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, on their conditions of work, on their exploitation.55 The progressive hope can be discarded — must be, indeed —but the notion that politics itself vanishes at the same point is a vain critique, one that conflates Utopia or hope with the struggles against power. It is already clear, I have argued, that </span>the struggles continue quite well under the flag of (unflagging) irony<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The demarcations between such an ironic position and a more sincere one will always be a matter of interpretation and negotiation. If one starts with the assumption that politics must be oriented from some external, confident position, anyone who denied that assumption is then open to the charge that he or she has engaged in purely personal indulgences and extravagances, with no link to institutional change. It is a subtext of my argument to demonstrate how far this assumption is from being a necessity. Once more: </span>the abandonment of any metaphysical solidarity in no way requires the adoption of private, solipsistic signaling into the void as a model for politics<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But </span>the dispute resolutely remains lodged //in between// truth-producing discourses<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Any case for (or even against) the ironical, interventionist position will always be speculative and rhetorical. </span>It is, at a minimum, important to** dislodge the presumption that the lifestyle position represents the only (or even necessarily the first) response possible in the face of nuclearism**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, before I move, in the next chapter, to expand discussion of alternatives.</span>

===Cap K=== 
====1NC==== 
**__The final market__—plan seeks to expand capitalism through search for surplus**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parker, 9. Martin (University of Leicester School of Management), The Sociological Review Volume 57</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This chapter explores a paradox.1 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">I want to believe that the ends of space explorationrest on a certain orientation to the future, a possibility that what comes next might be substantially different</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from what happens at the present time. This, I believe, is a sort of utopian projection that lies at the heart of any radical politics. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">At the same time</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the means for space exploration</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> currently appear to </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">require that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> certain rather </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">everyday desires are projectedoutwardsto a staras if it were a new market segment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. So we imagine 42 light years, and see PepsiCo in space. But I do not think that this is merely reducible to a matter of means or ends, as if the two never met. At the beginning of the 20th century Max</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Weber made a nice distinction between technical rationality (zweckrational) and value rationality</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (wertrational). </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The former refers to the sort of efficiency and organization that it is rational to adopt once you have decided on a particular course of action</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and he claims that this is </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">epitomised by the bureaucratic organizational form</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Bureaucracy connects means to means, without hatred or passion, in order that ramified chains of cause and effect can be built that would otherwise stumble and evaporate. Without bureaucratic reason, we would not be able to administer a state, or manufacture a corn chip, or a Saturn V rocket. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">But states</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, corn chips and Saturn V rockets </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">are insufficient to explain themselves, so Weber suggests that values must be the ultimate ends of action.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Values, desires, are not ‘rational’ in themselves, but provide a target for technique. But, he says, there is a sense in which his age was becoming an age in which means were becoming ends in themselves, and notions of ‘calling’, of value, were fading away.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘Where the fulfilment of the calling cannot be directly related to the highest spiritual and cultural values, or when, on the other hand, it need not be felt simply as economic compulsion, the individual generally abandons the attempt to justify it at all. In the field of its highest development, in the United States, the pursuit of wealth, stripped of its religious and ethical meaning, tends to become associated with purely mundane passions, which often actually give it the character of sport.’ (Weber, 1930: 182)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">So the means become the end. The end is the playing of the game, and finds no justification beyond itself, and questions about ends, about values, are no longer asked</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it seems to me, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">is the paradox of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> having </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">capitalists in space.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As if the distance between the Earth and 47 Ursae Majoris is a problem for marketing, and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the sublime evaporates in the exhaust fumes of managerialism.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But, at the same time, it is naïve to imagine that Apollo and the rest have been free from such earthly entanglements. In the context, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">it doesn't matter that much whether we articulate these entanglements as nation building; party political interest; hidden subsidy of the military industrial complex, or research institutes; career and identity projects;</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> needing to pay the mortgage; or compensating for small penis size. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">All these, and many more, have undoubtedly driven human beings to work on space exploration projects. But now, in an era of globalising capitalism, it seems that matters of profit and loss are becoming more relevant than ever in driving human beings to such work</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Commercial space tourist flights will be the first clear example of what has, so far, been a tendency partly concealed by state and state agency operations. But now, it seems, NASA is being pushed out of the way, in order that enterprise can be launched.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Violence, war ensue** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Brown, 5.** </span>Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan<span class="Underline"> (Charles Brown, [[http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm]]) </span>
<span class="Underline">The </span>capitalist classowns<span class="Underline"> the </span>factories<span class="Underline">, the banks, and transportation-the </span>means of production<span class="Underline"> and distribution. </span>Workers sell<span class="Underline"> their </span>ability to work<span class="Underline"> in order </span>to acquire<span class="Underline"> the </span>necessities<span class="Underline"> of life.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Capitalists buy the workers' labor, but only pay them back a portion of the wealth they create. Because the capitalists own the means of production, they are able to keep the surplus wealth created by workers above and beyond the cost of paying worker's wages and other costs of production. </span><span class="Underline">This surplus is called "profit" and consists of unpaid labor that the capitalists appropriate and use to achieve ever-greater profits. These profits are turned into capital which capitalists use to further exploit the producers of all wealth-the working class. </span> Capitalists<span class="Underline"> are compelled by competition to seek to maximize profits. The capitalist </span>class<span class="Underline"> as a whole can do that only by </span>extracting a greater surplus from the unpaid labor of workers<span class="Underline"> by </span>increasing exploitation<span class="Underline">. Under capitalism, economic development happens only if it is profitable to the individual capitalists, not for any social need or good. The </span>profit drive<span class="Underline"> is inherent in capitalism, and </span>underlies<span class="Underline"> or exacerbates </span>all<span class="Underline"> major </span>social ills of our time<span style="font-size: 7pt;">s. With the rapid advance of technology and productivity, new forms of capitalist ownership have developed to maximize profit</span><span class="Underline">. The working people of our country confront serious, chronic problems </span>because ofcapitalism<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> These chronic problems become part of the objective conditions that confront each new generation of working people. </span>The threat of nuclear war<span class="Underline">, which can destroy all humanity, grows with the spread of nuclear weapons, </span>space-based weaponry<span class="Underline">, and a </span>military doctrine<span class="Underline"> that </span>justifies<span class="Underline"> their use in </span>preemptive wars<span class="Underline"> and wars </span>without end<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Ever since the end of World War II, the U.S. has been constantly involved in aggressive military actions big and small. </span><span class="Underline">These wars have cost millions of lives and casualties, huge material losses, as well as trillions of U.S. taxpayer dollars. </span>Threats to the environment<span class="Underline"> continue to spiral, threatening all life on our planet</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">Millions of workers are unemployed or insecure in their jobs, even during economic upswings and periods of "recovery" from recessions.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Most workers experience long years of stagnant real wages, while health and education costs soar. Many workers are forced to work second and third jobs to make ends meet. Most workers now average four different occupations during their lifetime, being involuntarily moved from job to job and career to career. Often, retirement-age workers are forced to continue working just to provide health care for themselves. </span><span class="Underline">With capitalist globalization, jobs move as capitalists export factories and even entire industries to other countries. Millions of people continuously live below the poverty level; many suffer homelessness and hunger. Public and private programs to alleviate poverty and hunger do not reach everyone, and are inadequate even for those they do reach.</span> Racism<span class="Underline"> remains the most potent weapon to </span>divide working people<span class="Underline">. Institutionalized racism </span>provides billions in extra profits for the capitalists every year<span class="Underline"> due to the unequal pay racially oppressed workers receive for work of comparable value. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">All workers receive lower wages when racism succeeds in dividing and disorganizing them. In every aspect of economic and social life, African Americans, Latinos, Native Americans, Asian a nd Pacific Islanders, Arabs and Middle Eastern peoples, and other nationally and racially oppressed people experience conditions inferior to that of whites. </span><span class="Underline">Racist violence and the poison of racist ideas victimize all people of color no matter which economic class they belong to. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">The attempts to suppress and undercount the vote of the African American and other racially oppressed people are part of racism in the electoral process. Racism permeates the police, judicial and prison systems, perpetuating unequal sentencing, racial profiling, discriminatory enforcement, and police brutality. </span><span class="Underline">The democratic, civil and human rights of all working people are continually under attack.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> These attacks range from increasingly difficult procedures for union recognition and attempts to prevent full union participation in elections, to the absence of the right to strike for many public workers. They range from undercounting minority communities in the census to making it difficult for working people to run for office because of the domination of corporate campaign funding and the high cost of advertising. These attacks also include growing censorship and domination of the media by the ultra-right; growing restrictions and surveillance of activist social movements and the Left; open denial of basic rights to immigrants; and, violations of the Geneva Conventions up to and including torture for prisoners. </span><span class="Underline">These abuses all serve to maintain the grip of the </span>capitalists<span class="Underline"> on government power. They </span>use this power to ensure<span class="Underline"> the economic and </span>political dominance<span class="Underline"> of their class. </span>Women stillface<span class="Underline"> a considerable differential in wages for work of equal or comparable value. They also confront barriers to promotion, </span>physical<span class="Underline"> and sexual </span>abuse<span class="Underline">, continuing unequal workload in home and family life, and male supremacist ideology perpetuating unequal and often unsafe conditions. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">The constant attacks on social welfare programs severely impact single women, single mothers, nationally and racially oppressed women, and all working class women. </span><span class="Underline">The reproductive rights of all women are continually under attack ideologically and politically. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Violence against women in the home and in society at large remains a shameful fact of life in the U.S.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s capitalist relations.** </span>

**Hollowing out capitalism solves – also avoids transition wars**
**Herod 2004**—James, Faculty at the University of Massachusetts at Boston, [[http://www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/index.htm]]
It is time to try to describe, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at first abstractly and later concretely,</span> a strategy for destroying capitalism. This strategy, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at its most basic</span>, calls for pulling time, energy, and resources out of capitalist civilization and putting them into building a new civilization. The image then is one of emptying out capitalist structures, hollowing them out, by draining wealth, power, and meaning out of them until there is nothing left but shells. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is definitely an aggressive strategy. It requires great militancy, and constitutes an attack on the existing order. The strategy clearly recognizes that capitalism is the enemy and must be destroyed, but</span> it is not a frontal attack aimed at overthrowing the system, but an inside attack aimed at gutting it, while simultaneously replacing it with something better, something we want. Thus capitalist structures<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (corporations, governments, banks, schools, etc.) </span>are<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not //seized// so much as simply </span>//abandoned//. Capitalist relations are not //fought// so much as they are simply //rejected//. We //stop participating// in activities that support<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (finance, condone) </span>the capitalist world and //start participating// in activities that build a new world while simultaneously undermining the old<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We create a new pattern of social relations alongside capitalist relations and then we continually build and strengthen our new pattern while doing every thing we can to weaken capitalist relations</span>. In this way our new democratic, non-hierarchical, non-commodified relations can eventually overwhelm the capitalist relations and force them out of existence. This is how it has to be done. This is a plausible, realistic strategy. To think that we could create a whole new world of decent social arrangements overnight, in the midst of a crisis, during a so-called revolution, or during the collapse of capitalism, is foolhardy. Our new social world must grow within the old, and in opposition to it, until it is strong enough to dismantle and abolish capitalist relations.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such a revolution will never happen automatically, blindly, determinably, because of the inexorable, materialist laws of history. It will happen, and only happen, because we want it to, and because we know what we’re doing and know how we want to live, and know what obstacles have to be overcome before we can live that way, and know how to distinguish between our social patterns and theirs. </span>But we must not think that the capitalist world can simply be ignored, in a live and let live attitude, while we try to build new lives elsewhere.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(There //is// no elsewhere.) There is at least one thing, wage-slavery, that we can’t simply stop participating in (but even here there are ways we can chip away at it). Capitalism must be //explicitly refused// and replaced by something else. </span>This constitutes //War//, but it is not a war in the traditional sense of armies and tanks, but a war fought on a daily basis, on the level of everyday life, by millions of people. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is a war nevertheless because the accumulators of capital will use coercion, brutality, and murder, as they have always done in the past, to try to block any rejection of the system</span>. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">They have always had to force compliance; they will not hesitate to continue doing so. Nevertheless, there are many concrete ways that individuals, groups, and neighborhoods can gut capitalism, which I will enumerate shortly. We must always keep in mind how we became slaves; then we can see more clearly how </span>we can cease being slaves<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We were forced into wage-slavery because the ruling class slowly, systematically, and brutally destroyed our ability to live autonomously</span>.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By driving us off the land, changing the property laws, destroying community rights, destroying our tools, imposing taxes, destroying our local markets, and so forth, we were forced onto the labor market in order to survive, our only remaining option being to sell, for a wage, our ability to work. It’s quite clear then how we can overthrow slavery. We must reverse this process. We must begin to reacquire the ability to live without working for a wage or buying the products made by wage-slaves (that is, we must get free from the labor market and the way of living based on it), and embed ourselves instead in cooperative labor and cooperatively produced goods. Another clarification is needed. </span>This strategy does not call for //reforming// capitalism, for changing capitalism into something else. It calls for //replacing// capitalism, totally, with a new civilization.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This is an important distinction, because</span> capitalism has proved impervious to reforms, as a system. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">We can sometimes in some places win certain concessions from it (usually only temporary ones) and win some (usually short-lived) improvements in our lives as its victims, but </span>we cannot reform it piecemeal, as a system. Thus our strategy of gutting and eventually destroying capitalism requires at a minimum a totalizing image, an awareness that we are attacking an entire way of life and replacing it with another, and not merely reforming one way of life into something else. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many people may not be accustomed to thinking about entire systems and social orders, but everyone knows what a lifestyle is, or a way of life, and that is the way we should approach it. The thing is this: in order for capitalism to be destroyed millions and millions of people must be dissatisfied with their way of life. They must //want something else// and see certain existing things as obstacles to getting what they want. It is not useful to think of this as a new ideology. It is not merely a belief-system that is needed, like a religion, or like Marxism, or Anarchism. Rather it is a new prevailing vision, a dominant desire, an overriding need. What must exist is a pressing desire to live a certain way, and not to live another way. </span>If this pressing desire were a desire to live free, to be autonomous, to live in democratically controlled communities, to participate in the self-regulating activities of a mature people, then capitalism could be destroyed. Otherwise we are doomed to perpetual slavery and possibly even to extinction.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The content of this vision is actually not new at all, but quite old. The long term goal of communists, anarchists, and socialists has always been to restore community. Even the great peasant revolts of early capitalism sought to get free from external authorities and restore autonomy to villages. Marx defined communism once as a free association of producers, and at another time as a situation in which the free development of each is a condition for the free development of all. Anarchists have always called for worker and peasant self-managed cooperatives. </span>The long term goals have always been clear: to abolish wage-slavery, to eradicate a social order organized solely around the accumulation of capital for its own sake, and to establish in its place a society of free people who democratically and cooperatively self-determine the shape of their social world.
==T== 
===T Human=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**Exploration requires staffed missions**
**Logsdon, 9** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a government-funded program of human spaceflight is to take the lead in exploring the solar system beyond low Earth orbit.20 </span>__The MIT white paper__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> provides an insightful definition of exploration:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration is a human activity, undertaken by certain cultures at certain times for particular reasons. It has components of national interest, scientific research, and technical innovation, but is defined by none of them. </span>__We____define exploration as an expansion of the realm of human experience, bringing people into new places, situations, and environments__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, expanding and redefining what it means to be human. What is the role of Earth in human life? Is human life fundamentally tied to the earth, or could it survive without the planet?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Human presence, and its attendant risk, turns a spaceflight into a story that is compelling to large numbers of people. Exploration also has a moral dimension because it is in effect a cultural conversation on the nature and meaning of human life. </span>__Exploration__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by this definition </span>__can only be accomplished by direct human presence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and may be deemed worthy of the risk of human life.21</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the wake of the 2003 </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columbia </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">accident that took the lives of seven astronauts and the report of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board that criticized the absence of a compelling mission for human spaceflight as “a failure of national leadership,”22 </span>__the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates, in January 2004, </span>__adopted a new policy____to guide its human spaceflight activities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The policy directed NASA to “implement a sustained and affordable human and robotic program to explore the solar system and beyond” and to “extend human presence across the solar system, starting with a human return to the Moon by the year 2020, in preparation for human exploration of Mars and other destinations.”23 </span>__This policy seems totally consistent with the definition of exploration provided in the MIT white paper__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The issue is whether such a policy and its implementation, focusing on human exploration beyond Earth orbit, can provide an adequate and sustainable justification for a continuing program of government-sponsored spaceflight that will make contributions that will outweigh the costs and risks involved to the “primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

**So does space development**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)</span>

__Eric Westling is a____science writer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, pundit on science, technology, and economics. He is the </span>__co-author of “The Space Elevator”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with Dr. Brad Edwards . In addition, Mr. Westling is retired </span>__and__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a </span>__former Army officer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and helicopter pilot, civilian Airline Transport Pilot (ATP), former consultant to many small companies regarding engineering, computer, and business troubleshooting. </span>__His most recent papers are on____S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">olar </span>__P__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ower </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">atellites, Economics of </span>__the Space Elevator, Energy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and time lag in the 21st century , </span>__and Eric’s axioms__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (a list of principles of science, technology and economics). Mr. Westling stats that “Space Development is the only long term answer to the, just starting, energy shortage; which will otherwise continue until we have an economic collapse.” He </span>__believes that no-one is doing space development . Instead, **we have space technology, not development**. NASA has no TRL 10 – therefore no plans to develop space__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> . </span>**__He defines space development as the rapid expansion of manned__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">commercial</span> **__projects in space__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====2NC==== 
**Development is human**

**Hickman 1999**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Associate Professor of GovernmentDepartment of Government and International Relations (John, “JOURNAL OF EVOLUTION AND TECHNOLOGY, Volume 4, November 1999.” “The Political Economy of Very Large Space Projects.” http://www.transhumanist.com/volume4/space.htm) CMR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When </span>space development enthusiasts describe how permanent human communities might be established in space<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, they often draw analogies to the European colonization of the Americas and to the “winning” of the western frontiers of the United States and Canada, analogies which are often given a very contemporary libertarian spin. Complex historical processes are offered up as examples of the triumph of individualism and private enterprise. The unspun truth about the “winning” of the western frontiers of the United States and Canada make for even poorer libertarian dramas. Notwithstanding all the hardy pioneers in their covered wagons, the western frontier of the United States was really “won” by the U.S. Army and the construction of the railroads which were capitalized by enormous Federal land grants.[5] Similarly, the western frontier of Canada was “won” by cash grants, subsidies, loans, and the guarantee of bond issues by the Canadian government to finance the construction of the railroads. A better historical analogy for establishing permanent human communities in space is actually provided by one of the greatest civil engineering project of this century--the construction of the Panama Canal. As would be true with any very large space development project, constructing the Panama Canal required that tough new engineering and science problems had to be overcome in an unforgiving environment, a labor force had to be imported and supported, and sufficient capital had to be invested despite the fact that private investors could not or would not provide the financing necessary to complete the task. After twenty years of failed efforts by private French firms to dig a canal across the isthmus of Panama and the failure of a private American firm to dig a canal through Nicaragua, it was the United States government that successfully completed the construction of the Panama Canal.[6] Financing by the United States government and management by U.S. Army engineers succeeded where the private sector failed. Engineering problems more difficult than those which were encountered in constructing the Suez Canal were solved, yellow fever and malaria were effectively controlled, a new sovereign nation-state was created, and world commerce was facilitated.[7] Not bad for government work. Very large </span>space development projects should be understood as massive public works projects constructed to provide the environmental and economic requirements for permanent human settlement beyond Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If these new human settlements are to attract and keep the kind of people needed, then they will have to be livable communities. Making them livable will provide plenty of scope for private firms to profit from the provision of goods and services. But private firms will not do the heavy lifting necessary to finance the construction of the very large space project within which and around which such a livable community may grow.</span>

**Even if tech ENABLES exploration humans are the core of the topic – here’s a caselist**
**Vernikos 2008** -- member of the Space Studies Board of the National Academy and former director of NASA’s Life Sciences Division (Joan 1/1 2008, “Is Space Exploration Worth the Cost? A Freakonomics Quorum.” A quorum on Freakonomics blog, run by Steven J. Dubner, “http://www.freakonomics.com/2008/01/11/is-space-exploration-worth-the-cost-a-freakonomics-quorum/) CMR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Without risking human lives, </span>robotic technology<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such as unmanned missions, probes, observatories, and landers </span>**enables**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> space </span>exploration. It lays the groundwork,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and does the scouting. </span>But<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as I heard former astronaut </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Jones</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">often say, “</span>only a human can experience what being in space feels like, and only a human can communicate this to others.” It is humans who repair the Hubble telescope. It is humans who service the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> International Space Station (</span>ISS<span style="font-size: 8pt;">). Mercury </span>astronauts were the first to photograph Earth from space with hand-held cameras<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Earth </span>scientists<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in orbit on the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ISS </span>may view<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> aspects of global </span>change that only a trained eye can see.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In addition, </span>studying astronauts<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the microgravity of space </span>has been the only means of understanding how gravity affects human development and health here on Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is highly probable that, in this century, humans will settle on other planets. Our ability to explore and sustain human presence there will not only expand Earth’s access to mineral resources but, should the need arise, provide alternative habitats for humanity’s survival.</span>

**They skirt the central question of the topic**
**Williamson 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- independent SpaceTechnology Consultant serving the space industry, space insurance sector and space education community (Ad Astra, winter 2008, National Space Society, “footprints on NEOs.” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume20/AdAstra2008ThreatOfImpact.pdf) CMR</span>

The debate over whether manned or unmanned spacecraft are more effective in the realm of space exploration has been running almost as long as the Space Age itself<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and shows no signs of abating anytime soon. The most reasoned conclusion is that there is a role for both, but the decision between one or the other for a particular mission depends on factors such as available technology, cost, and risk (both real and perceived).</span>

**Precision DA**
**Wright****2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Overseeing the revival of Teachers in Space as a non-profit program of the Space Frontier Foundation. Principal Investigator on NASA K-12 Cooperative Agreement Notice to create professional-development workshops for STEM teachers focusing on suborbital science, flight simulation, space medicine and human factors. Manage fund-raising and acquired suborbital spaceflight services from commercial providers. Served on first Pathfinder astronaut selection committee. Developed and implemented astronaut training plans. Managed two major government proposals totaling over $1.5 million. Coordinated with NASA, university, and industry partners. Managed press- and public-relations campaigns. Conducted press conferences at Holloman AFB, NASA Ames Research Center, and the United States Senate; appeared on national television; and addressed major educational conferences. Co-authored draft legislation related to Teachers in Space. Developed legislative strategy and led lobbying efforts on Capitol Hill. Interfaced with the FAA Office of Commercial Space Transportation. Overseeing development of iPhone-based data acquisition software for suborbital flight experiments and development/acquisition of flight-simulator hardware and software. (comment on Space Politics.com, http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Unmanned missions are not exploration, they are merely reconnaissance.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>dictionary defines exploration as “travel for purposes of discovery.” <span class="Underline">Sitting in a control room looking at pictures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of Mars on a TV set </span><span class="Underline">is not exploration because it does not involve travel.</span>Calling unmanned space “exploration”and unmanned probes “spaceships” is just an attempt to co-opt the language.

**Limits outweigh and turn every other standard – key to participation**

**Rowland, 84****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span>**



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The first major problem identified by the work group as relating to topic selection is the decline in participation in the National Debate Tournament (NDT) policy debate. As Boman notes: There is a growing dissatisfaction with academic debate that utilizes a policy proposition. Programs which are oriented toward debating the national policy debate proposition, so-called “NDT” programs, are diminishing both in scope and size. This decline in policy debate is tied, many in the work group believe, to excessively broad topics. The most obvious characteristic of some recent policy debate topics is extreme breadth. A resolution calling for regulation of land use literally and figuratively covers a lot of ground. National debate topics have not always been so broad. Before the late 1960s the topic often specified a particular policy change. The move from narrow to broad topics has had, according to some, the effect of limiting the number of students who participate in policy debate. First, the breadth of topics has all but destroyed novice debate. Paul Gaske argues that because the stock issues of policy debate are clearly defined, it is superior to value debate as a means of introducing students to the debate process. Despite this advantage of policy debate, Gaske believes that NDT debate is not the best vehicle for teaching beginners. The problem is that broad topicsterrify novice debaters, especially those who lack high school debate experience. They are unable to cope with the breath of the topic and experience “negophobia,” the fear of debating negative. As a consequence, the educational advantages associated with teaching novice through policy debate are lost: “Yet all of these benefits fly out the window as rookies in their formative stage quickly experience humiliation at being caught without evidence or substantive awareness of the issues that confront them at a tournament.” The ultimate result is that fewernovices participate in NDT, thus lessening the educational value of the activity and limiting thenumber of debaters who eventually participate in more advanced divisions of policy debate. In addition to noting the effect on novices, participants argued that broad topics also discourage experienced debaters from continuedparticipation in policy debate. Here, the claim is that it takes so much time and effort to be competitive on a broad topic that students who are concerned with doing more than just debate are forced out of the activity. Gaske notes, that “broad topics discourage participation because of insufficient time to do requisite research.” The final effect may be that entire programs wither cease functioning or shift to value debate as a way to avoid unreasonable research burdens. Boman supports this point: “It is this expanding necessity of evidence, and thereby research, which has created a competitive imbalance between institutions that participate in academic debate.” In this view, it is the competitive imbalance resulting from the use of broad topics that has led some small schools to cancel their programs.</span>




**Especially on a science topic**
**Arrington ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rebecca, UVA Today, “Study Finds That Students Benefit From Depth, Rather Than Breadth, in High School Science Courses” March 4)</span>

A recent study reports that high school students who study fewer<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> science </span>topics, but study them in greater depth, have an advantage in collegescience classes over their peers who study more topics and spend less time on each. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span>Tai, associate professor at the University of Virginia<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'s Curry </span>School of Education, worked with<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Marc S. </span>Schwartz of the University of Texas<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at Arlington and Philip M. Sadler </span>and<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Gerhard </span>Sonnert of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics to conduct the study<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and produce the report. "Depth Versus Breadth: How Content Coverage in High School Courses Relates to Later Success in College Science Coursework" relates the amount of content covered on a particular topic in high school classes with students' performance in college-level science classes. The study will appear in the July 2009 print edition of Science Education and is currently available as an online pre-print from the journal. "As a former high school teacher, I always worried about whether it was better to teach less in greater depth or more with no real depth. </span>This study offers evidence that teaching fewer topics in greater depth is a better way to prepare students for success in college<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> science," Tai said. "These </span>results are based on the performance of thousands of college<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> science </span>students from across the United States<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." The 8,310 students in the study were enrolled in introductory biology, chemistry or physics in randomly selected four-year colleges and universities. </span>Those who spent one month or more studying one major topic in-depth in high school earned higher grades in college<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> science </span>than their peers who studied more topics in the same period of time. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The study revealed that </span>students in courses that focused on mastering a particular topic were impacted twice as much as those in courses that touched on every major topic.

==DAs== 
===Weaponization DA=== 
**Weaponization not inevitable – Obama’s new NSP solves**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented toward military security concerns and independent action. The 2006 National Space Policy unabashedly proclaimed the U.S. intention to maintain a dominant position in space indefinitely. This policy orientation dismissed multilateral cooperation as impinging on U.S. “freedom of action,” throwing weight instead behind a wide range of technology development initiatives founded on the assumption that deployment of weapons in space was, if not already factual, certainly inevitable.2 U.S. commercial and civil engagement was overshadowed by these security concerns, expressed through the tightening of export control restrictions inhibiting a broad range of technology sharing. Once again, U.S. space policy was subsumed by other national priorities, in this case dominated by military security concerns.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This background is essential for appreciating how </span>the space policies of the Obama administrationare beginning to genuinely break new trails<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The U.S. National Space Policy issued in June 2010has been widely recognized for its cooperative and multilateral tone<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including as explicit near-term goals the expansion of international cooperation on all activities and pursuing international as well as national measures to enhance space stability. </span>Particularly notable are the document’s emphasis on orienting U.S. “leadership” toward fostering international cooperation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and its references, in its concluding section, to cooperation with other states and non-state actors in the pursuit of national security space objectives.3</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less broadly noticed was this policy’s clarity and coherence in articulating a vision for U.S. space activities on its own terms. The document is organized around core principles, subsidiary goals and implementing guidelines that exceed its predecessors in delineating a longer-term direction for U.S. space policy that is integrated with, rather than derivative of, broader U.S. global aims.4 The policy also was generated and issued far earlier in the tenure of the administration than either of its predecessors, indicating an increased prioritization of attention to space policy at higher levels of policy-making.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To some degree,</span> a turn toward multilateral cooperation in U.S. space policy was to be expected<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. China’s 2007 anti-satellite weapon (ASAT) test and the 2009 Iridium-Cosmos collision increased awareness of the challenge of space debris and the need for better global information sharing on space situational awareness (SSA).5 Also, </span>new budget realitiesandunpromising technological developments have scaled back ambitions in some quarters for solving U.S. space security concerns with new independent capabilities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Finally, the Obama administration has pursued a more cooperative disposition across a wide range of global policy challenges, from Iranian nuclear ambitions to global climate change. But the improved clarity of vision in the 2010 Space Policy suggests that the emphasis on fostering global cooperation on space-related activities is more grounded in deliberate foresight than sailing the prevailing political winds.</span>
The 2011 National Security Space Strategy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, released February 4, </span>is best interpreted against this background of the Obama administration’s turn toward both greater international space cooperation<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and greater attention to space policy in general. This first-of-its-kind strategic statement culminates a congressionally mandated space posture review.6 The initial section portraying the strategic environment to which U.S. security policy must be responsive highlights the growing problems of space debris, orbital congestion and coordination among a growing number of space actors — not state-based security threats per se. The Security Space Strategy features the objective of a “stable space environment in which nations exercise shared responsibility.”7 Specific provisions intended to implement this strategy, relevant to the preceding observations, include:8 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• The strategy presents a full section on “Partnering with Responsible Nations, International Organizations, and Commercial Firms.” This category is not wholly multilateral in the traditional sense, displaying a symbiosis of alliance-building and collective cooperation not always carefully distinguished; i.e., “The United States will lead in building coalitions of like-minded space-faring nations and, where appropriate, work with international institutions to do so.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• The strategy intends to “encourage responsible behavior in space and lead by the power of example,” a significant observation given the tendency of U.S. policy-makers (as noted above) not to expect quid pro quo responses to cooperative gestures. Also, </span>the strategy states the U.S. “will support development of data standards, best practices, transparency and confidence-building measures, and //norms of behavior for responsible space operations//.”<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [italics added] In the context of the section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression,” the strategy similarly intends to “support diplomatic efforts to promote norms of responsible behavior in space” as well as “pursue international partnerships that encourage potential adversary restraint,” along with other measures. </span>This emphasis on norm-building and the role of example suggests a near-term endorsement of the development of “codes of conduct” for space activities<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (such as the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct, discussed below), </span>whether or not such concord leads to more formal arms control arrangements <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the longer-term.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span>The Department of Defense is directed to “foster cooperative SSA relationships<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” and to “expand provision of safety of flight services to U.S. Government agencies, other nations, and commercial firms.” Greater SSA information sharing has been a key suggestion for fostering international cooperation; the U.S. possesses globally superior SSA capabilities, but restricts the sharing of this information on the basis of national security concerns.9 Hence, this nominal commitment is significant in its own right.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span>The strategy commits to reforming export controls.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “In particular, as new opportunities arise for international collaboration, a revised export control system will better enable the domestic firms competing for these contracts.” As noted above, the oppressive impact of current U.S. export controls not only impinges on U.S. commercial space actors but also epitomizes the high degree to which U.S. policy has subsumed commercial and civil interests to national security concerns. The strategy appears to acknowledge this connection and commit to remedy it.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• The most assertive passages of the statement are moderated with community-building intent. For example, the strategy’s section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression” concludes that the U.S. “will retain the right and capabilities to respond in self-defense, should deterrence fail,” but immediately adds that the U.S. “will use force in a manner that is consistent with longstanding principles of international law, treaties to which the United States is a party, and the inherent right of self defense.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• The concluding and most conflict-oriented section of the strategy opens by noting that “some actors may still believe counterspace actions could provide military advantage.” Counterspace capabilities, unarticulated in the document, include ASATs, ground-based directed energy weapons and satellite transmission jamming. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy Gregory Schulte explained at the strategy’s rollout that China is a principal concern in this regard, but so is the proliferation of these technologies: “If Ethiopia can jam a commercial satellite, you have to worry what others can do.”10 This section of the strategy does not, however, call for maintaining options to develop complementary space conflict capabilities.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rather, the strategy asserts that the U.S. “must be prepared to ‘fight through’ a degraded environment,” and identifies “resilience” and “space protection” as the key criteria.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The preceding survey of elements of the 2011 National Security Space Strategy is deliberately selective, highlighting those elements expressing consistency with the 2010 National Space Policy’s bend toward fostering greater international collaboration. Perhaps </span>as striking<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as the prevalence of such passages, however, </span>is the absence of expressed intention — even couched in hedging language — to sustain or expand<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the kind of </span>independent space-based military capabilities<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that were the centerpiece of the prior administration’s aims (if not its accomplishments). Again, to some extent this turn in tone is overdetermined by extenuating global circumstances. But one must still be struck by the degree to which developments such as the Chinese ASAT test have not ignited the kind of response one might have anticipated only a few short years after Donald Rumsfeld’s notorious warning of a “space Pearl Harbor.”11 </span>
The most immediate significance of the National Security Space Strategy is likely the signals its sends concerning U.S. policy toward the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.12 The strategy did not explicitly endorse this EU initiative, but Mr. Schulte, at the February 4 presentation of the strategy, highlighted the initiative “as a potential way” to promote “transparency and confidence-building measures, which tend to be voluntary as opposed to legally binding.” A week earlier, Rose Gottemoeller, Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, stated at the Conference on Disarmament that the administration was nearing a decision on whether the U.S. would sign on to the code, and what modifications might be required in order to do so.13 As U.S. interest in the Code of Conduct has increased, debates over its provisions and its relationship to the Outer Space Treaty have intensified. </span>
These policy movements toward multilateral engagementand commitment to behavioral standards (even if non-binding) mark a sharp departure from the stiff resistance to curtailing U.S. “freedom of action” in the previous administration<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and have accordingly generated resistance from congressional opponents on just those terms. Prior to the release of the National Security Space Strategy, a group of 37 Republican senators led by Arizona Senator Jon Kyl issued a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expressing concern over a potential multilateral commitment that might limit development and/or deployment of space-based missile defense interceptors and ASAT-defeating systems.14 Critics also decried the strategy’s emphasis on “the old fallacious assumption that the power of example will prevent adversaries from doing the United States harm,” and endorsed maintaining the goal of U.S. retention of a “dominant position in military and intelligence space capabilities.”15 In fact, the administration’s warming toward normative commitments in general — and the EU Code of Conduct in particular — are in part intended to forestall pressure for more formal and binding measures that would definitively cut off the “hedge” of unilateral U.S. weapons development options.16 The balance of U.S. debate may have shifted toward greater international cooperation, but the terms of the debate remain the same.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In sum, </span>the National Security Space Strategy appears to mark not only a swing in U.S. policy toward greater global engagement but also,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and more importantly, </span>a step toward greater long-term coherence in thinking concerning the core goals of U.S. space activities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even supporters of the general directions of the strategy noted its more-than-expected breadth of thought.17 But if this reading is sound, the strategy is still but one step on a long road, and ongoing debates over the role of U.S. space policy vis-à-vis broader national security interests will insure that road is bumpy. Suggesting such limitations, Mr. Schulte acknowledged that the classified version of the strategy is only four pages longer than the released version, indicating that more specific guidelines for military implementation of the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**You create global weaponization**
**Hoey, 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, writer for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, [Mathew, Space Review, “Military Space Systems: The Road Ahead” February 26, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many people believe that </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">a deployed anti-satellite capability and an ability to attack targets on or near the Earth’s surface from space would create a global climate of insecurity both by enhancing current risks and by creating new problems. These new and increased risks would be the byproducts not only of systems to be deployed by theU</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">S</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">but also of the subsequent arms race in space which could be expected to result thanks to responses by China, Russia, the European Union, and perhaps Japan.</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Perhaps </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">the</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> most consequential </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">impact would be</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> increasing the probability of </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">accidental nuclear war. Space-based weapons could shorten the road to armed conflict</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, whether nuclear or conventional. </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">In the event that</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a space asset of o</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">ne nation was attacked by another (on purpose or by accident), an immediate military response would be triggered, shortening the diplomatic process while escalating the armed conflict.</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Once employed regularly, </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">anti-satellite systems</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and space weapons </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">would litter LEO with debris, which</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in turn </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">would permanently compromise our collective ability to explore</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the heavens and use space for constructive commercial purposes. The weaponization of space and the deployment of </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">ASAT systems would undermine</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> existing international </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">arms control treaties </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">that are </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">already under stress.</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> In addition, </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">they would fly in the face of the collective will of the international community</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which has demanded a ban on weapons in space for two decades and repeatedly been blocked by the United States. For those who share these concerns, one thing is certain: the time for international negotiations on a treaty to ban weapons in space is long overdue. Within a very few years, this potential development could become a reality.</span>

**Accidents risk extinction**
**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the increased likelihood of </span>their use'<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 </span>The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such</span> interceptors can<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig <span style="font-size: 8pt;">orbiting</span> Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, </span>by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 </span>Deployment of space weaponswith pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, </span>'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that </span>any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.
====2NC Impact Biz==== 
**MAD success proves war is EXTREMELY UNLIKELY only question is accidents.**
**Hellman 2008 --** professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University (Martin, “Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence.” The Bent, spring 2008) CMR *we don’t endorse gendered language*

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some might argue that, </span>because World War III would be so destructive, no one in his right mind would start such a devastating conflict and there is no need to worry<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But much the same could have been said prior to the first World War, demonstrating that </span>in times of crisis we are often not in our right minds. If civilization is destroyed in a nuclear holocaust, it is likely to start as World War I did—**a sequence of events that spirals out of control.**

**If realism is true then their wars wont happen only accidents will**
**Quackenbush 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Missouri (Steven, “Deterrence theory: where do we stand?.” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Review of International Studies </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2011), 37: 741-762) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Structural deterrence theory, closely aligned with </span>realism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>argues that a balance of power brings peace<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; if two </span>states are equal in power<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>each will be deterred since neither will be able to gain an advantage<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">13</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Furthermore, structural deterrence theory </span>**argues that nuclear deterrenceis inherently stable**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. While ‘in a conventional world, a country can sensibly attack if it believes that success is probable’, </span>with nuclear weapons ‘a nation will be deterred from attacking even if it believes that there is only a possibility that its adversary will retaliate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.’</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">14</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus, the key to deterrence is a second-strike capability, and once this is achieved,</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">15</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> deterrence is straightforward since the enormous costs associated with nuclear war make an attack irrational. </span>**Accidental war, then, represents the only real threat to deterrence.****<span style="color: black;">16</span>**

**We control magnitude – space arms race makes __nuclear__** **escalation likely**
**Krepon 2004** -- Founding President of the Henry L. Stimson Center (Michael, “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space.” <span style="color: black;">http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf</span>) CMR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To prevent adversaries from shooting back, the </span>United Stateswould need to know exactly where all threatening space objects are located<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, to neutralize them without producing debris that can damage US or allied space objects, and </span>to target and defeat all ground-based military activities<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that could join the fight in space. In other words, successful </span>space warfare mandates pre-emptive strikes and a preventive war in space as well as on the ground<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>War plans and execution often go awry here on Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It </span>takes enormous hubris to believe that space warfarewould be any different<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>If ASAT a<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nd space-based, ground-attack weapons </span>are flight-tested and deployed,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> space warriors will have succeeded in the dubious achievement of replicating the hair-trigger nuclear postures that plagued humankind during the Cold War. </span>Armageddon nuclear postures continue to this day, with thousands of US and Russian nuclear weapons ready to be launched in minutes to incinerate opposing forces<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, command and control nodes, and other targets, some of which happen to be located within large metropolitan areas. </span>If the heavens were weaponized, these nuclear postures would be reinforced and elevated into space.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US </span>space warriors<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now have a doctrine and plans for counterspace operations, but they </span>do not have a credible plan to stop<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> inadvertent or uncontrolled </span>escalation once the shooting starts<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Like US war-fighting scenarios, there is a huge chasm between plans and consequences, in which requirements for escalation dominance make uncontrolled escalation far more likely. </span>A pre-emptive strike in space on a nation that possesses nuclear weapons would invite the gravest possible consequences<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Attacks on satellites that provide early warning and other critical military support functions </span>would<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> most </span>likely be viewed either as a surrogate or as a prelude to attacks on nuclear forces.

**Existential**

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bostrom</span>**//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 20</span>//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">02</span>**//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards </span>//
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that //might// have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization.<span style="color: black;">[4]</span> Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that </span>a smaller nuclear exchange<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, between India and Pakistan for instance, </span>is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vote neg on presumption – china takes out are satellites the second we build them if they’re truly evil </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blazejewski 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kenneth, received his master’s degree in public affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University and his JD degree from the New York University School of Law, " Space Weaponization and US-China Relations." Spring, http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/2008/Spring/blazejewski.pdf, AD 6/29/11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I recommend that the United States accept a commitment to forgo placement of weapons in outer space. The costs of space weaponization simply outweigh the benefits. Above, I argue that </span>China would respond to US space weaponization with some level of military buildup.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the least, this </span>response would include the deployment of a more robust ASAT system capable of attacking and potentially eliminating space weapons.52<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> After all, </span>space weapons<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, like military satellites, </span>make for vulnerable military targets<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.53 The </span>**use of space-based weapons in a conflict must be discounted by the likelihood** **that they would be eliminated by Chinese ASAT attack**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. More importantly, </span>increased ASAT deploymentwould<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have the counterproductive effect of </span>exposing US satellites to greater threat<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Aside from ASAT issues, Chinese response to US space weaponization would include an increase in China’s ICBM fleet and nuclear arsenal. Vertical proliferation cannot be in the interests of the United States, if only for the increased peacetime risks of accidental launch or the terrorist risk associated with increased availability of weapons technology and components. Finally, the United States should not discount the possibility, often cited by opponents of space weaponization, that the deployment of US space weapons would instigate a space arms race.</span>

**Most probable – space weapons multiplies the risks of miscalc and tech accidents – also guarantees great power escalation**
**Hitchens 2008 --** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">directs the Center for Defense Information in Washington, D.C., and leads its Space Security Project, in cooperation with the Secure World Foundation (Theresa, “SPACE WARS..” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Scientific American</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; Mar2008, Vol. 298 Issue 3, p78-85, 8p, EBSCO) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several other nations, including one of China's regional rivals, </span>India<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>may feel compelled to seek offensive as well as defensive capabilities in space<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The U.S. trade journal Defense News, for instance, quoted unidentified Indian defense officials as stating that their country had already begun developing its own kinetic-energy (nonexplosive, hit-to-kill) and laser-based antisatellite weapons.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If </span>India goes down that path, its archrival Pakistan will probably follow suit<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Like India, Pakistan has a well-developed ballistic missile program, including medium-range missiles that could launch an antisatellite system. Even </span>Japan<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the third major Asian power, </span>might join such a space race<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In June 2007 the National Diet of Japan began considering a bill backed by the current Fukuda government that would permit the development of satellites for "military and national security" purposes.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As for Russia, in the wake of the Chinese test President Vladimir Putin reiterated Moscow's stance against the weaponization of space. At the same time, though, he refused to criticize Beijing's actions and blamed the U.S. instead.The American efforts to build a missile defense system, Putin charged, and the increasingly aggressive </span>American plans for a military position in space were prompting China's moves<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Yet </span>Russia<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> itself, as a major spacefaring power that has incorporated satellites into its national security structure, </span>would be hard-pressed to forgo entering an arms race in space.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the proliferation of spacefaring entities [see box at left], </span>proponents of a robust space warfare strategy believe that arming the heavens is inevitable and that it would be best for the U.S. to get there first with firepower<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Antisatellite and space-based weapons, they argue, will be necessary not only to defend U.S. military and commercial satellites but also to deny any future adversary the use of space capabilities to enhance the performance of its forces on the battlefield.</span>
Yet any arms race in space would almost inevitably destabilize the balance of power and thereby **multiply the risks of global conflict**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>In such headlong competition<span style="font-size: 8pt;">--whether in space or elsewhere--</span>equilibrium among the adversaries would be virtually impossible to maintain<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even if the major powers did achieve stability, that reality would still </span>provide no guarantee that both sides would perceive it to be so.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>moment one side saw itself to be slipping behind the other, the first side would be strongly tempted to launch a preemptive strike<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>before things got even worse<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Ironically, the same would hold for the side that perceived itself to have gained an advantage. Again, there would be </span>strong temptation to strike first<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, before the adversary could catch up. Finally, a </span>**space weapons race would ratchet up the chances that a mere technological mistake could trigger a battle**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. After all, in the distant void, reliably distinguishing an intentional act from an accidental one would be highly problematic.</span>

====<span style="text-decoration: none;">SPS Link </span>==== 
**Unilateral development of SPS sends a signal that destroys this**

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Glaser, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">Glaser: Since it would be such a huge undertaking, I think </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">it would be best accomplished at an international level</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">, perhaps even </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">managed by the U</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">N</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">ations. Each country could contribute their best effort, and then each country would reap the benefit of cheap and plentiful power from the sun. We could utilize the knowledge of all the nations that have been researching space- based solar power. </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">If only one country has thesatellites, the international community will worry that the technology will be misused. With every </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">nation taking part in the planning, building, and operation of the system, there would be inherent transparency, oversight, and equality. There would be no secrets, and no country would be left in the dark. </span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">if one nation decides to build the system, all hell may break loose. There would be distrust and a huge shift in the balance of power. Any nation with such a systemwould not only have an advantage in space, but they would have economic and military advantages on the ground as well. </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">And there are many countries taking the idea of solar power from space much more seriously that we are in the United States. I would prefer to see a network of power satellites built by an international effort. </span>


**Their aerospace advantage is the link**
**Lewis, 11** - Senior Fellow and Director Technology and Public Policy Program Center for Strategic and International Studies (James, High Frontier, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy,” February, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]]

__Administrations write national space policies for a public and international audience. This foreign audience’s general view of the issuing administration shapes their interpretation of the policy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The message taken from the previous administration’s space policy, particularly by international audiences, was a unilateral assertion of dominance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These foreign perceptions of the 2006 NSP may have been exaggerated by a belief that it was cut from the same cloth as other US military policies, such as the invasion of Iraq and the international actions against terrorism, but foreign perceptions were not essentially wrong. The essential theme of 2006 reflected the forceful unilateralism that underlay foreign and security policy. The 2006 policy asserted US control and the right to deny the use of space to its opponents while rejecting any agreements that might limit US freedom of action—military action—in space.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It could be argued that this theme of US leadership in space (which could appear to foreign audiences as an assertion of dominance) is found in earlier space policies, and the 2006 policy changed only the tone and the weighting of policy by adding emphasis to this aspect. However, in the context of foreign perceptions of American foreign policy, this increased emphasis on dominance and denial was counterproductive in two ways.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span>__announcing that the US has the right to untrammeled action in space, including the use of force, to preserve its interests, creates “antibodies,” as other nations look for ways to constrain the US__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__It also legitimizes their own military space programs and shapes other nations interagency debates on space policy and space weapons in ways unfavorable to the US.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From a technical perspective, it may be possible to deny the use of space by opponents, but it would be very difficult and perhaps impossible to prevent them from degrading US freedom of action in space through attacks on the American satellite fleet. Satellites are soft targets. America has many of them. </span>__An astute opponent could conclude that the US would have more to lose and come out worse in any exchange once counterspace action commenced.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__by renouncing any form of arms control for space, the US yielded leadership in international fora to other nations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__It lost the opportunity to find if there were areas where it could “trade” with potential opponents for agreements that could reduce risk to US space assets and interests__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The argument that the Reagan administration had rejected space arms control and there was no need to reconsider that decision flew in the face of a vastly changed space domain, which now includes an array of new opponents who are not bound by the informal understandings on conflict avoidance and on appropriate behavior in space that had grown up between the US and the Soviets.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The idea that there are no agreements, no trades, which could be beneficial to the US, can be rejected out of hand. At a minimum, a US failure to engage internationally leaves the field open for potential opponents to shape opinion and, potentially, rules in ways unfavorable to the US. </span>__As the nation with the largest fleet of satellites, and being__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, perhaps, </span>__the most dependent on space, we have an asymmetric vulnerability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is true that a formal treaty would be unverifiable and difficult to implement, but a treaty is not the only vehicle for international agreement.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An effort to gain international acceptance of a norm that stigmatizes attacks on unarmed space assets would be in our interest. Finally, some activities—transparency, regard for law— are easier for the US to undertake than for some potential opponents, giving the US a negotiating advantage, should it choose to take it. It is easier for us to be transparent about our space activities, for example, than it is for Russia and China. This is not to say that negotiations would be easy or quick, or that they would not require some skill, but that the US would gain from the process of engagement.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action magnifies this** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a given nation in that it tends to increase political sustainability. Within the United States, a program is made safer from cancellation to the extent that Congress and the administration are not willing to break international agreements. Indeed, the integration of Russia into the ISS program may well have saved the program from cancellation (consider that the year before Russia was introduced as a partner, the ISS was saved by one vote in Congress). Once cooperation has commenced, canceling a program becomes inconsistent with political sustainability as long as the utility cost associated with the loss of diplomatic benefits and the negative effects on reputation of terminating an international agreement is larger in magnitude than the utility cost that must be paid to maintain the system. In the case of the ISS, international cooperation does provide a rationale for sustaining the pro-gram, because canceling the program would result in a net loss in utility. The corollary to this is that there is a high cost to be paid by any nation that chooses to unilaterally withdraw from an existing cooperative endeavor. This cost comes in the form of damage to the departing nation’s reputation or credibility. In general, </span>__any unilateral action sends a signal that the actor is an unpredictable and therefore an unreliable and possibly disrespectful partner. This tends to sabotage the possibility of future cooperation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As such, </span>__there is a long-term benefit to maintaining cooperation, even when the immediate cost may seem to call for terminating it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__If cooperation has never occurred__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as is the case be-tween China and the United States), </span>__the advent of cooperation is a significant event__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, likely </span>__delivering a lot of diplomatic utility.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> On the other hand, </span>__if cooperation is the norm__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as is the case between Canada and the United States), </span>__it is to be expected.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The diplomatic utility of maintaining this cooperation is often not recognized. Nevertheless, </span>__the diplomatic utility cost of terminating this cooperation is large, because it would alienate a key ally__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If it were necessary to cease cooperation, a mutual choice to do so would likely mitigate many of the negative reputation effects, because there would be no unilateral actor to whom one could assign blame. Indeed, if both parties choose to cease cooperat-ing simultaneously, this would mitigate the negative-reputation effect—rather, there would be a “mutual divorce.” Such a mutual decision would be significantly more tenable, in a diplomatic sense, because each party might outline a set of grievances and conditions for the termination of cooperation. Furthermore, since the agreement would be termi-nated in a spirit of mutual understanding, the possibility of future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>

**Perception**
**<span style="color: black;">Pop, 2k</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">The SPS system</span>__<span style="color: black;">, although not directly aimed at countering strategic ballistic missiles, __might be__</span>__<span style="color: black;">accused of having an ABM “hidden agenda”,</span>____<span style="color: black;">given its</span>____<span style="color: black;"> real ABM capabilities.</span>__<span style="color: black;"> Indeed, __“[i]t__</span>__<span style="color: black;">was speculated that a high-energy laser beam</span>____<span style="color: black;">could function as a thermal weapon to disable</span>____<span style="color: black;">or destroy enemy missiles</span>__<span style="color: black;">”22. Foldes alsoconsiders that __one of the most logical offensive__</span>__<span style="color: black;">uses of SPS can include the “microwave</span>____<span style="color: black;">heating of other space objects”</span>__<span style="color: black;">23. OTAbelieves that “[a]lthough unlikely, use of theSPS for directed-energy weaponry, eitherdirectly, or as a source of energy to betransmitted to remote platforms, or for tracking,would be regulated by the ABM Treaty. Use ofthe SPS for ABM purposes would hence bebanned”24.</span>

**Unilateral SSP development causes the link**
**<span style="color: black;">Schwab, 2</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – director of the Homeland Defense Institute, former fellow with the Space Security Working Group of the Eisenhower Institute, and currently serves on the steering committee of the International Association of Space Entrepreneurs </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Martin, “The New Viability of Space Solar Power: Global Mobilization for a Common Human Endeavor” 4/15, [[http://web.archive.org/web/20060102081311/www.homeplanetdefense.org/Space+Solar+Power1.pdf]]) (**Note – while this link works, a text search in google won’t - you will need a web archive search on homeplanetdefense.org to find this)**</span>

<span style="color: black;">With regard to Ridges’s call for //mitigation// of any and all potential disasters, SSP should definitely be on the list of ideas that would make U.S. energy infrastructure more secure__. A useful model for how to implement SSP energy for all the nations on Earth would be the ongoing efforts and challenges faced in building the International Space Station__ (ISS). While this paper does not examine all the irregularities regarding the ISS, it is hoped that successes and lessons learned in international cooperation via the ISS would be applied to future SSP projects. __Unilateral development of SSP by the U.S. would only add to the growing perspective of the U.S. as an overbearing and arrogant hegemon. This dangerous perspective held by even the closest U.S. allies could__ at least __be__ partially __mitigated through international engagement in developing secure energy for planet Earth__. </span>
===China Bashing Politics - New Trier=== 
====1NC==== 
**China currency won’t pass**
**Washington Post 10/7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sommez, “China currency bill splits GOP leaders, rank-and-file members.” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/2chambers/post/china-currency-bill-splits-gop-leaders-rank-and-file-members/2011/10/07/gIQAR2PgTL_blog.html]]) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span>[[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/china-currency-sanctions-bill-moves-toward-vote-in-senate/2011/10/06/gIQAml9NQL_story.html|proposal on Chinese currency]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span>opened up a fissure between<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> congressional </span>Republicanleaders<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who have criticized the bill as “dangerous” </span>and rank-and-file members<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who argue that it would level the playing field between the U.S. and China on trade. The rift was evident Thursday in the Senate, where </span>12 Republicans[[@http://www.senate.gov/legislative/LIS/roll_call_lists/roll_call_vote_cfm.cfm?congress=112&amp;session=1&amp;vote=00156|bucked their party’s leadership]] to join<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all but three </span>Democrats in voting to end debate on the measure<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[@http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d112:SN1619:|S. 1619]]. But the </span>intra-party split<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is even </span>more pronounced in the House<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, where leaders have rebuffed calls – including some from members of their own party – to hold a vote on the bill. In interviews this week, several rank-and-file House Republicans described themselves as conflicted between wanting to consider the China currency bill and not wishing to pick a fight with leadership on the issue. “I’m torn because I support the issue. ... As far as coming from northeast Indiana, there’s a lot of steel manufacturing; the Chinese manipulation of currency is a problem for us,” said Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-Ind.), one of the 87 members of the House Republican freshman class. Stutzman said that he hadn’t looked into the specifics of the legislation currently making its way through the upper chamber. He called Senate Democrats’ decision to press forward now on the measure “a little odd” considering that the White House has not given its blessing. Still, Stutzman said he’d vote “on a good version” of a China currency bill “whenever it happens.” “As I said, I don’t know what their version is,” he said. “I know we’re focused on a lot of other things. ... But if leadership wants to do it, I’ll be glad to work with them and hopefully support a good version of the bill.” Rep. Tom Rooney (R-Fla.) is another lawmaker who said that he would support House consideration of a China currency measure. “I wouldn’t mind having the debate,” said Rooney, who [[@http://projects.washingtonpost.com/congress/111/house/2/votes/554|was one of 99 Republicans who joined most Democrats last September]] in backing a similar measure. “I think that certainly, if there’s an inequity -- having the free-trade argument is one thing, but the people in my district want trade to be fair. ... I would like to see us at some point bring it up.” Also among the House Republicans supporting consideration of a China currency bill is freshman Rep. Allen West (Fla.). “If you don’t take some type of action, you’re going to get even worse behavior, and we’ve got to call the Chinese out on this,” West said this week, [[@http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20111006-713089.html|according to the Wall Street Journal]]. Several lawmakers in interviews this week declined to take a position on the measure until it has cleared the Senate, which is expected to happen next Tuesday. “I’ll wait ‘til it comes over and see,” said Rep. Austin Scott (R-Ga.), the president of the House Republican freshman class. “Honestly, I’ve been working on a couple of other things. We’ll see what they send over.” The bill has made for some strange political bedfellows: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) on Thursday echoed conservative senators such as Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) in calling for the House to take up the China measure. “This is huge, and we must level the playing field,” she said, citing reports that three pending trade deals with South Korea, Panama and Colombia would amount to the creation of only 80,000 jobs while the Chinese currency issue is costing the U.S. more than 1 million jobs. “I can say flat out, with all the respect I have for the people of China, all the importance I place on that relationship ... we are in an abusive relationship with China when it comes to trade.” Pelosi added – as Republican supporters of the measure have noted – that a similar bill last year “passed overwhelmingly in the House.” “I would hope that the Republican majority would give us a chance to bring up the bill,” she said. House Speaker John </span>Boehner<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (R-Ohio) and other House GOP leaders, meanwhile, have </span>struck a skeptical note<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the measure – just as the White House has done. At an Atlantic Ideas Forum event Thursday morning, </span>he defended<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the actions of the </span>Obama<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Bush administrations on the Chinese currency issue and argued that the legislation being considered by the Senate would be counterproductive. “Well there’s been concern on my part -- and frankly from a lot of quarters here in America -- about how the Chinese have manipulated their currency,” Boehner said. “There’s been </span>every effort you can imagine out of our Treasury Department<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the last seven or eight years addressing this with the Chinese. There’s been significant improvement in the valuation of China’s currency as a result of those conversations. But for the Congress of the United States to pass legislation to force the Chinese to do what is arguably very difficult to do, I think is wrong. It’s dangerous.” </span>Obama<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has said that he shares the goals of the bill’s supporters when it comes to pressuring China to allow the yuan to appreciate. But the </span>White House is unlikely to endorse the Senate legislation. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">That means that </span>for perhaps one of the first times<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the 112th Congress, </span>Obama and Boehner are seeing eye-to-eye<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – and Pelosi and rank-and-file Republicans are united on the other side of the issue.</span>

**Obama political capital blocks it, if he doesn’t, bill kills china US relations**
**Reuters 9/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ([[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]]) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Democrats like House Minority Leader Nancy </span>Pelosi and<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senator Charles </span>Schumer<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also have </span>signaled plans to push for a vote on legislation to pressure <span style="color: #006e97;">[[http://www.reuters.com/places/china|China]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to revalue its currency in conjunction with the free trade pacts. </span>That would inflame relations with Beijing<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and possibly </span>trigger tit-for-tat trade retaliationif Obama does not expend political capital to block it.

**Bill causes upheaval in China**
**NYT 10/15**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Editoral, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/16/opinion/sunday/its-not-just-the-currency.html]]</span>) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many </span>Chinese officials realize<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this. In fact, “</span>rebalancing” the economy is a<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> prominent </span>goal<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in China’s new five-year economic plan. The currency has been allowed to rise 7 percent against the dollar since June of 2010. Yet in late August the rise slowed to a virtual halt. Analysts fear that China is returning to its old playbook to support its exports amid a faltering global economy. We have no sympathy for the desire of China’s autocrats to stifle political freedoms, but their fear </span>that a swift change in course could lead to social and political upheaval is legitimate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Even if China’s leaders were persuaded of the need to change<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, it </span>could not happen overnight. If the currency rose too fast, it would slash exports<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>bankrupt<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> many </span>firms<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>increase joblessness<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Other<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> needed </span>components<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of reform — </span>like raising interest rates<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>freeing credit<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from state control — </span>could bankrupt firms<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and banks if done too abruptly.</span>

**World War III**
**Plate, Professor at UCLA, 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tom, Professor at UCLA, The Straights Times, “Neo-cons a bigger risk to Bush than Chin,” 6-28-2003]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">imagine a China disintegrating</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- on its own, without neo-conservative or Central Intelligence Agency prompting, much less outright military invasion </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">because the economy </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(against all predictions) </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">suddenly collapses. That would knock Asia into chaos. A massive flood of refugees would head for </span>Indonesia<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and other </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">places </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">with poor border controls, which don’t’ want them and </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">cant handle them; some in Japan might </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">lick their lips at the prospect of World War II revisited and </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">look to annex a slice of China</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That would send Singapore and Malaysia- once occupied by Japan- into nervous breakdowns. Meanwhile, </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">India might make a grab for Tibet, and Pakistan for Kashmir. Then you can say hello to World War III</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Asia style. That’s why </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">wise policy encourages Chinese </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">stability, security and </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">economic growth </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– the very direction the White House now seems to prefer. </span>
====2NC Impact - Warming==== 

**<span style="color: black;">Solve warming </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Lieberthal 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">—director of the John L. Thornton China Center and senior fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, PhD in Political Science, Columbia—AND—David B. Sandalow, Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs at the Energy Department, JD (Kenneth G., January 2009, Overcoming Obstacles to U.S.-China Cooperation on Climate Change,[[http://www.brookings.edu/reports/2009/01_climate_change_lieberthal_sandalow.aspx]], RBatra)</span><span style="color: black;">Opportunities for collaboration in fighting climate change are plentiful</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, but </span><span style="color: black;">moving forward</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> at the scale needed </span><span style="color: black;">will require high-level political support</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> in two very different societies, each with considerable suspicion of the other. This report recommends ways to win such support and sustain it for the long term.Chapter 1 of the report provides a primer on two topics: climate change and U.S.-China relations. It describes the </span><span style="color: black;">climate change threat</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, concluding that </span><span style="color: black;">every year of delay in responding to it puts both countries</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">—and the planet—</span><span style="color: black;">at</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> greater </span><span style="color: black;">risk</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="color: black;">Because the United States and China are the world’s top two greenhouse gas emitters, together accounting for more than 40% of annual emissions, any solution requires both countries to transition to low-carbon economies</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. U.S.-China </span><span style="color: black;">cooperation</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> on climate change </span><span style="color: black;">would have</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> not only bilateral but </span><span style="color: black;">global benefits</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Extinction**

**Cummins and Allen ‘10** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, [[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6]])





The hour is late. Leading climate scientists such as James Hansen are literally shouting at the top of their lungs that the world needs to reduce emissions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by 20-40% </span>as soon as possible<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and 80-90% by the year 2050, </span>if we are to avoid climate chaos, crop failures, endless wars, melting of the polar icecaps, and a disastrous rise in ocean levels<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Either we radically reduce CO2<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e, which includes all GHGs, not just CO2) pollutants (currently at 390 parts per million and rising 2 ppm per year) to 350 ppm, including agriculture-derived methane and nitrous oxide pollution, or</span>**else survival for the present and future generations is in jeopardy.**As scientists warned at Copenhagen, business as usual and a corresponding 7-8.6 degree Fahrenheit rise in global temperatures means that the **carrying capacity of the Earth** **in 2100 will be reduced to one billion people**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Under this hellish scenario, </span>billions will die of thirst, cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation. If the U.S. significantly reduces greenhouse gas emissions, other countries will follow<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. One hopeful sign is the recent EPA announcement that it intends to regulate greenhouse gases as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. Unfortunately we are going to have to put </span>tremendous pressure on elected public officials to force the EPA to crack down on GHG polluters<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (including industrial farms and food processors). Public pressure is especially critical since "just say no" Congressmen-both Democrats and Republicans-along with agribusiness, real estate developers, the construction industry, and the fossil fuel lobby appear determined to maintain "business as usual."</span>









==Case Negatives== 
===SPS=== 
====Wind Power CP 1NC==== 
Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should contract aerospace companies to design, build, and implement a sufficient number of efficient wind turbines to supply the country’s energy needs.
Aerospace technology solves wind power’s failures
Rani <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Richardson 09</span>, Former Director of Operations at Magestic Systems Inc., an aerospace company CATIA PLM Composites Consultant, 2009 “Wind Turbine Blade Composites Design: Leveraging Aerospace Advances for Improved Durability” http://www.plmv5.com/composites/downloads/Dassault_Systemes_composite_white_paper.pdf //AJO//
//With such high hopes riding on this alternative energy source, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the wind turbine</span> blade <span style="font-size: 12pt;">industry is working hard to improve manufacturing efficiency</span> and address blade failure issues, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">but challenges remain great,</span> with failure rates as high as 20% within three years. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Borrowing best practices</span> for the design and production of composite rotorcraft blades from <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the aerospace industry can vault wind turbine blade manufacturers to the forefront of the wind energy industry. These techniques have the potential to</span> reduce development costs and cycle times by integrating the entire design and manufacturing process within a single environment. Simulation can be used to virtually verify the manufacturability and durability at almost no cost, avoiding the high cost of trial and error in the real world and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">achiev</span>ing <span style="font-size: 12pt;">significantly lower failure rates</span>.//
//That solves their aerospace impacts//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIA 6/30</span>, Aerospace Industries Association, premier trade association representing the nation's major aerospace and defense manufacturers, June 30, 2011.//
//http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=33997// AJO
Former FAA Administrator and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">current President</span> and CEO <span style="font-size: 12pt;">of the Aerospace Industries Association</span>, Marion C. Blakey, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">called for</span> accelerated implementation of FAA's Next Generation Air Transportation System and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">increased U.S. investment in r</span>esearch <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and d</span>evelopment<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to avoid losing our leadership in aerospace and defense.</span> "It's important to properly fund and promote our aerospace and defense industry and the research and development needed to sustain it," Blakey said at a luncheon hosted by the Aero Club of Washington today. Blakey also said that it was important for the aerospace industry to underscore the critical role of aerospace and defense in supporting our nation and economy, especially during ongoing budget debates. AIA is launching a campaign called Second to None to ensure that Congress and other officials understand that the industry is a perishable national asset. "The aerospace and defense industry - which is second to none in the world, represents a smart business decision," said Blakey. "Our products keep the world's economy moving, our families safe at home and our troops secure and successful abroad." Further identifying the issues that place the industry at a crossroads, she said that half of U.S. aerospace engineers will become eligible for retirement by 2015. In addition, for the first time in 100 years, no new manned military aircraft are in design. Outdated export rules are hampering businesses as well as unmanned aerial systems, which Blakey called "game-changers in this century." NextGen will help environmental efforts by saving fuel and reducing emissions. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The aviation industry has committed to achieve carbon-neutral growth</span> by 2020 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">through the use of</span> NextGen technologies and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">green</span> fuel <span style="font-size: 12pt;">alternatives</span>. However, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">these initiatives require government support, including R&D funding</span> for FAA and NASA.

====Russia Oil==== 
=====1NC===== 
**Russia’s economy is high now, but Russia is vulnerable**
**Reuters 9/2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(9/2/11, Reuters, “TEXT-Fitch affirms Russia at 'BBB'; positive outlook” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/idUSWLA456020110902</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MGE)</span>
__Russia has a strong external balance sheet. Foreign exchange reserves were USD540bn in mid-August, the third-highest in the world after China and Japan__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, providing a formidable liquidity buffer against external financing or currency risks. Russia is a substantial net external creditor, equivalent to 23% of GDP at end-2010. </span>__It has run current account surpluses every year__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since 1997, despite volatile commodity prices.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia's </span>__low level of sovereign debt is another key rating strength__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. General government debt was only 11.5% of GDP at end-2010, well below the 10-year 'BBB' range median of 36%. Moreover, the government had USD119bn (around 6.5% of projected 2011 GDP) in its sovereign wealth funds on 1 August 2011, providing fiscal financing flexibility and a moderate buffer to shocks.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The agency forecasts the federal budget deficit at just 1.2% of GDP in 2011, down from 4% in 2010, and well below the projected 2011 'BBB' range median of 4.2%. However, </span>__it expects the non-oil and gas deficit to be around 11% of GDP this year and the 'breakeven' oil price (at which the budget would balance) has soared__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to around USD118pb, up from USD49pb in 2008. Moreover, recent budget amendments have raised expenditure and delayed plans to significantly reduce the non-oil and gas deficit beyond 2014, </span>__increasing Russia's vulnerability to a collapse in oil prices.__

**SPS would reduce dependence on oil**
**Choudhury 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nishi Roy, 10/15/7, Eco Friend, “Space-based solar power can reduce oil dependence the eco friendly” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:UMFFNlDUBtYJ:www.ecofriend.com/entry/space-based-solar-power-can-reduce-oil-dependence-and-carbon-footprint-saysreport/+space+solar+powe+oil+dependance&cd=2&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&source=www.google.com</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MGE) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Post-9/11 oil prices have jumped from $15/barrel to now $80/barrel in less than a decade. According to a report commissioned by the Pentagon Space-Based Solar Power (</span>__SBSP__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>__can__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> help to slow down climate change and also </span>__reduce our dependence on fossil fuels__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This SBSP was first invented in the United States almost 40 years ago. Essentially the central idea of SBSP is very simple (place very large solar arrays into continuously and intensely sunlit Earth orbit (1,366 watts/m2), collect gigawatts of electrical energy, electromagnetically beam it to Earth, and receive it on the surface for use either as baseload power via direct connection to the existing electrical grid, conversion into manufactured synthetic hydrocarbon fuels, or as low-intensity broadcast power beamed directly to consumers). Do you know </span>__a single kilometer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-wide </span>__band__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of geosynchronous earth orbit </span>__experiences enough solar flux in one____year to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> almost </span>__equal the amount of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> energy present within all known recoverable conventional </span>__oil reserves on Earth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> today? Amazing isn’t it? This amount of energy from SBSP means that there is a huge potential for reducing global warming for those nations who construct and possess a SBSP capability. But, unfortunately it is not as simple as it looks. Why? This is because it is extremely expensive to get the solar power unit into space (it is anywhere between $500,000 and $1 billion). </span>__Hopefully, with time these SBSP units will become more economically viable, and thus help in reducing our dependence on fossil fuels.__

**Oil drop would lead to economic instability**
**Miller 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gregory D., assistant professor of political science at the University of Oklahoma, April 2010, The Washington Quarterly, “The Security Costs of Energy Independence” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_Miller.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MGE)</span>
__Russia is another potential danger spot because it is the only nuclear state, at least for now, that has significant revenue from the sale of oil,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> roughly 8 —20 percent of its GDP. </span>__Losing that income will have less dramatic effects on Russia than on many OPEC states more heavily reliant on oil sales, a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">t least partly because of recent attempts to diversify the Russian economy</span>__. Its economy, however, is still too fragile to handle a major drop in demand for oil. G__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">iven the existing tension between Russia and states such as Georgia and Ukraine, </span>__neither the United States nor Russia’s neighbors can afford the risk of a nuclear Russia suffering economic instability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 19 </span>

**Russian economic collapse causes nuclear war**
**Filger 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sheldon, Staff Huffington Post, 5/10/9, Global Economic Crisis, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356 MGE)</span>
__In Russia__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> historically, </span>__economic health and political stability are intertwined__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to a degree that is rarely encountered in other major industrialized economies. </span>__It was the economic stagnation of the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> former </span>__Soviet Union that led to its political downfall__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Similarly, Medvedev and Putin, both intimately acquainted with their nation’s history, are unquestionably alarmed at the prospect that Russia’s economic crisis will endanger the nation’s political stability, achieved at great cost after years of chaos following the demise of the Soviet Union. Already, strikes and protests are occurring among rank and file workers facing unemployment or non-payment of their salaries. Recent polling demonstrates that the once supreme popularity ratings of Putin and Medvedev are eroding rapidly. Beyond the political elites are the financial oligarchs, who have been forced to deleverage, even unloading their yachts and executive jets in a desperate attempt to raise cash.</span>
__Should the Russian economy deteriorate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the point where economic collapse is not out of the question, </span>__the impact will go far beyond__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the obvious accelerant such an outcome would be for the Global Economic Crisis. There is a geopolitical dimension that is even more relevant then the economic context. Despite its economic vulnerabilities and perceived decline from superpower status, </span>__Russia remains one of only two nations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on earth </span>__with a nuclear arsenal of sufficient scope__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and capability </span>__to destroy the world as we know it.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For that reason, it is not only President Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin who will be lying awake at nights over the prospect that a national economic crisis can transform itself into a virulent and destabilizing social and political upheaval. It just may be possible that U.S. President Barack Obama’s national security team has already briefed him about the consequences of a major economic meltdown in Russia for the peace of the world. After all, the most recent national intelligence estimates put out by the U.S. intelligence community have already concluded that the </span>__Global Economic Crisis represents the greatest national security threat to the United States, due to its facilitating political instability in the world.__

=====2NC UQ===== 
**Russian economy is steady**
**Cao 8/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Belinda, 8/11/11Bloomberg, “RTS Stock Futures Rise on Oil, U.S. Job Data: Russia Overnight” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-11/rts-stock-futures-rise-on-oil-u-s-job-data-russia-overnight.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MGE)</span>
__Russia’s economy expanded 3.4 percent from a year earlier in the April-June period,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">slower than the 4.1 percent in the first quarter, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said yesterday. </span>__The Economy Ministry estimated growth at 3.7 percent last month.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“People care more about sovereign liquidity than they do about long-term growth forecasts,” said Rimmer at CF Global. “If we had a coherent policy response from central banks, that would turn sentiment around and that would improve things,” he said.</span>
__Crude for September delivery climbed 3.4 percent to $85.72 a barrel yesterday in New York, extending a two-day gain to 8.1 percent.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Brent oil for September settlement gained $1.34, or 1.3 percent, to end the session at $108.02 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.</span>
__Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, leaped 2.5 percent to $107.03 a barrel yesterday__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, paring its decline in August to 7.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Russia’s growth may slow to an annual 2.5 percent if Urals crude drops to $80 a barrel, Goldman estimated. Russia is the world’s largest oil producer and the biggest energy exporter.</span>

**Oil prices will be high**
**Voice of Russia 8/16** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(8/16/11 EMG“Global oil prices and Russia’s economy” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.emg.rs/en/news/world/162075.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Now we are witnessing a slow and quite difficult recovery. </span>__No exporting country wants conflicts in oil cooperation, t__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">hey all expect prices to remain stable. </span>__The market has been successfully responding to these needs__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In 2009-2010 oil price varied between $80-100. </span>__In early 2011 the price reached $100 following reduced production in Libya and the Fukushima nuclear disaster__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The average oil prices this year will be higher than in the pre-crisis times,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">allowing OPEC and Russia to earn more than in 2008. Global oil consumption is on the rise, positively affecting the production."</span>


===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kinkaid </span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vagueness 1NC</span>==== 

**Vagueness – the word “necessary” is super vague and makes the plan text meaningless**

**Schuman 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – judge in appeals court of Oregon (“FRIENDS OF YAMHILL COUNTY and CHERYL MCCAFFREY, Petitioners, and LEE DOES, AMY DOES, GRACE SCHAAD, and RANEE SOLOMONSSON, Petitioners below, v. CITY OF NEWBERG, Respondent.” Schuman’s written affirmation. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.publications.ojd.state.or.us/A146619.htm]]</span>) CMR **italics in original </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although "</span>__necessary__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" is commonly used to denote something "indispensable," the word </span>__has long proved__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>__elastic in legal parlance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Nearly a century ago, in //State v. Young//, 74 Or 399, 406, 145 P 647 (1915), the Oregon Supreme Court observed:</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__The word 'necessary' must be construed in the connection in which it is used.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is a </span>__word susceptible of various meanings__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It </span>__may____import absolute physical necessity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__or that which is only convenient__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or useful or essential: 5 Words and Phrases, p. 4705. The </span>__courts____have____many times construed the word 'necessary__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,' and it has almost universally been held to mean needful or convenient; especially is this the case where the word is used in conjunction with other and stronger terms."</span>

__Little has changed__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since //Young// </span>__to____make the term "necessary__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," so far as it appears in statutes or administrative rules, </span>__any less ambiguous__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> when read in isolation. As //Black's Law Dictionary// 1029 (6th ed 1990) explains,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"This word must be considered in the connection in which it is used, as it is a word susceptible of various meanings. It may import absolute physical necessity or inevitability, or it may import that which is only convenient, useful, appropriate, suitable, proper, or conducive to the end sought. It is an adjective expressing degrees, and may express mere convenience or that which is indispensable or an absolute physical necessity. //It// may mean something which in the accomplishment of a given object cannot be dispensed with, or it may mean something reasonably useful //and proper, and of greater or lesser benefit or convenience, and its force and meaning must be determined with relation to the particular object sought//."</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Weaponization 1NC </span>==== 

**<span style="color: black;">Independently, </span>****they result in space weapons**

**Altmann 2004**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – studied physics and carried out research in laser radar and computer pattern recognition. Since 1985, he has studied scientific-technical problems of disarmament, focusing on sensor systems for cooperative verification as well as prospective assessment and preventive limitations of new military technologies. University of Dormunt, Germany. (“Military Nanotechnology: Perspectives and Concerns.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ec.europa.eu/research/conferences/2004/ntw/pdf/soa_en.pdf]]</span>) CMR </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• For military uses of outer space, </span>NT<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (with MST) </span>will provide many possibilities for markedly smaller satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, together with smaller launch vehicles. Small satellites could be used in swarms for radar, communication or intelligence. Owing to the large effective antenna size of such a system, the target resolution would be high; however, the total antenna and solar-cell area would determine the strength of received or transmitted signals. </span>Small satellites could damage or destroy other satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – either </span>by a direct hit with high relative velocity or through manipulations after rendezvous<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and docking. </span>NT-enabled electromagnetic acceleration could also be used for kinetic-energy space weapons.


====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nano-Race 1NC</span>==== 

**Military nanotech creates nanotech arms races and nanoprolif**

**Altmann 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany, (“Uses (Military, ) of Nanotechnology— Too Much Complexity for International Security?.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1099-0526|Complexity]][[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1002/cplx.v14:1/issuetoc|Volume 14, Issue 1]]</span>, wiley) CMR</span>



__Hyperbole about nanoweapons can have dangerous consequences if it seizes high-level politicians__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is particularly problematic, however, if </span>__military goals__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of </span>__potential opponents are presented incorrectly__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This was the case in an overview book, written by an author from the US Department of Defense, on the Chinese armed forces. Under the headline ‘‘Nanotechnology Weapons’’ he stated that a Chinese general advertised asymmetric attacks against the USA with ‘‘ant robots’’ which would be pre-deployed covertly. When looking up the original article (interestingly, the English translation was published by the same US author), however, it turns out that it gave a report to a Chinese audience about a study from the US RAND corporation on military micro robots in which </span>__such systems were mainly discussed for missions by US armed forces__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> against their opponents [6, Section 3.4, 16]. Nevertheless, </span>__military planners in China and elsewhere will be impressed by US investment in military nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Whenever a new system will have been made ready in the USA and shown its military utility,____competitors and potential opponents will develop similar systems. There will be__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> exports and </span>__proliferation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, many </span>__not limited by export controls__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Action– reaction cycles will occur in deployment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but also already at the stages of research and development</span>



**Wars ensue**

**Gubrud 1997**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- University of Maryland (Mark, This is a draft paper for a talk at the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foresight.org/Conferences/MNT05/Nano5.html|Fifth Foresight Conference on Molecular Nanotechnology]]</span>. No date on website, but the conference took place in 1997. “Nanotechnology and International Security.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foresight.org/Conferences/MNT05/Papers/Gubrud/]]</span>) CMR </span>



__With molecular manufacturing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, international trade in both raw materials and finished goods can be replaced by decentralized production for local consumption, using locally available materials. The decline of international trade will undermine a powerful source of common interest. Further, artificial intelligence will displace skilled as well as unskilled labor. A world system based on wage labor, transnational capitalism and global markets will necessarily give way. We imagine that a golden age is possible, but we don't know how to organize one. As global capitalism retreats, it will leave behind a world dominated by politics, and possibly feudal concentrations of wealth and power. Economic insecurity, and fears for the material and moral future of humankind may lead to the rise of demagogic and intemperate national leaders. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With almost </span>__two hundred sovereign nations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, each struggling to create a new economic and social order, perhaps the most predictable outcome is chaos: </span>__shifting alignments,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> displaced populations, </span>__power struggles__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__ethnic conflicts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> inflamed by demagogues, class conflicts, land disputes, etc. Small and underdeveloped nations will be more than ever dependent on the major powers for access to technology, and more than ever vulnerable to sophisticated forms of control or subversion, or to outright domination. </span>__Competition__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> among the leading technological powers </span>__for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the political </span>__loyalty of clients__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> might imply reversion to some form of nationalistic imperialism.</span>

__Competition for control of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> newly-exploitable </span>__resources on Earth and in space may generate dissension__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and hostility even between democracies, erstwhile friends and allies, while providing an overt rationale for deploying competitive military forces.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If nuclear weapons remain limited in number, </span>__advanced nanotechnology____could facilitate ext__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ensive civil defense construction, and provide active </span>__defense__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>__counterforce weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__undermining the nuclear "balance of terror"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>__creating__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the appearance of a possibility of victory in a </span>**__war between major powers.__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From a purely military perspective, </span>__in the absence of a "balance of terror__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," a </span>__confrontation____between__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more or less equally advanced terrestrial nanotechnology powers could be </span>__unstable to preemption__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — in both of the traditional senses:</span>

__Arms race instability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A large imbalance in deployed hardware could allow one side to strike with impunity, and even a few-to-one imbalance could be enough to provide assurance of victory. If </span>__military production__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is based on a self-replicating capital base with a short generation time, the </span>__danger of falling behind__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on an exponential curve, or the opportunity to trump, </span>__would create__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> unprecedentedly </span>__strong pressures__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to initiate or join and to maintain or </span>__gain the lead__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in a quantitative arms race. Unprecedentedly large masses of military hardware could be produced in an unprecedentedly short time.</span>

__First strike instability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even if two sides are evenly matched, high levels of deployed armaments may be militarily unstable, in that a surprise attack could perhaps decimate the opposing force before it could respond. This is </span>__especially likely in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> co-occupied environments, i.e. </span>__space__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the oceans, and along land lines of confrontation. Forces based in protected areas may remain survivable, but serious competitors would not cede vast stretches of "no man's land" to enemy control in advance of a fight, and whoever strikes first in the co-occupied environments may gain an irreversible advantage. The greater the density of interpenetrating forces, the shorter the strike time. Thus a crisis becomes progressively less stable as a buildup proceeds.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A perfect balance of technical and material resources is unrealistic in any case, which leads to a new type of strategic instability:</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Early advantage instability. If one has an early lead in a replicator-based crisis arms buildup, the fact that a competitor may have somewhat faster replicators or superior weaponry, or may have access to a larger primary resource base, provides another strong stimulus to an early first strike. Moreover, it is unlikely that one actually knows the performance of an enemy's weapons or production base, particularly after a long peace.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, a </span>__runaway nanotechnic arms race____may be a race to nowhere__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; there may be no further island of stable military balance out there, even if we could manage to avoid war along the way.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Impact Work</span>==== 

**Accidents outweigh**

**Hellman 2008 --** professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University (Martin, “Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence.” The Bent, spring 2008) CMR *we don’t endorse gendered language*



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some might argue that, </span>__because World War III would be so destructive, no one in his right mind would start such a devastating conflict and there is no need to worry__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But much the same could have been said prior to the first World War, demonstrating that </span>__in times of crisis we are often not in our right minds. If civilization is destroyed in a nuclear holocaust, it is likely to start as World War I__ __did—**a sequence of events that spirals out of control.**__



**Causes elimination of the human species and destabilizing arms races**

**Altmann 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany, (“Uses (Military, ) of Nanotechnology— Too Much Complexity for International Security?.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1099-0526|Complexity]][[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1002/cplx.v14:1/issuetoc|Volume 14, Issue 1]]</span>, wiley) CMR</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If one accepts the assumptions of molecular nanotechnology, a multitude of worrying prospects will ensue. </span>__Selfreplicating assemblers could__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> be used for exponential </span>__build-up__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of traditional and new </span>__arms__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Starting fast could provide a decisive advantage. A single </span>__nanorobot__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, introduced into opponent territory and </span>__proliferating__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> there, </span>__could__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> suffice to </span>__wreak havoc with military systems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or the civilian population. </span>__Artificial intelligence of super-human capability could decide that humankind is no longer needed__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Used for hostile purposes, molecular nanotechnology would </span>__result in unprecedented levels of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> arms racing and </span>__destabilization__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [16]. But molecular nanotechnology is still a purely theoretical concept. Its feasibility and the forms of its eventual appearance are unclear, thus there is no valid base for scientific conclusions and political action. The prospects of molecular nanotechnology and the potential time frames of introduction of various phases should be studied first, and preventive limitation recommended according to the outcome. </span>



**Causes really destructive wars**

**Gubrud 1997**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- University of Maryland (Mark, This is a draft paper for a talk at the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foresight.org/Conferences/MNT05/Nano5.html|Fifth Foresight Conference on Molecular Nanotechnology]]</span>. No date on website, but the conference took place in 1997. “Nanotechnology and International Security.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foresight.org/Conferences/MNT05/Papers/Gubrud/]]</span>) CMR </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is easy to kill. </span>__What is hard is to kill with impunity when your enemy is well armed__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and numerous. War is a contest to suppress your enemy's capabilities before he can suppress yours. This doesn't leave much room for fancy swordplay or gothic revenge scenarios in serious combat. </span>__An actual nanotechnic war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, if one ever occurs, is </span>__likely to be inhumanly fast__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and enormously </span>__destructive__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Clever tactics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and nifty gadgets </span>__are irrelevant if your enemy can simply blow you up.__



**Creates new warheads that can skirt the nuclear taboo**

**Altmann 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany (Nanotechnology and Preventive Arms Control, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://edoc.vifapol.de/opus/volltexte/2008/668/pdf/berichtaltmann.pdf]]</span>) CMR *In context of nano </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With respect to nuclear weapons, </span>__direct reduction in stability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in particular regarding deterrence against nuclear-weapons use, </span>__would follow from__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very </span>__small____nuclear warheads__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__With__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a </span>__blurred distinction from conventional weapons,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__reluctance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to use them </span>__would be lower than with traditional nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__making__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> actual </span>__employment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>__probable__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This crossing of the nuclear threshold could act as a precursor to the use of larger nuclear weapons.</span>

**Turns heg –**

**a) asymmetric attacks against US infrastructure**
**Altmann 2004**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – studied physics and carried out research in laser radar and computer pattern recognition. Since 1985, he has studied scientific-technical problems of disarmament, focusing on sensor systems for cooperative verification as well as prospective assessment and preventive limitations of new military technologies. University of Dormunt, Germany. (“Military Nanotechnology: Perspectives and Concerns.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ec.europa.eu/research/conferences/2004/ntw/pdf/soa_en.pdf]]</span>) CMR </span>

__Arms races have to be feared__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in all areas of military NT use. </span>__Even though the USA would probably remain in the lead, several potential opponents could follow up with only years of delay__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In anticipation, the USA will work on countermeasures at an early stage. </span>__Others might react by increased reliance on asymmetric warfare__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__including attacks against infrastructure or using weapons of mass destruction.__

**b) causes NT parity**
**Altmann 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany (Nanotechnology and Preventive Arms Control, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://edoc.vifapol.de/opus/volltexte/2008/668/pdf/berichtaltmann.pdf]]</span>) CMR *In context of nano </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With NT, revolutionary </span>__new__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> military </span>__applications____are on the horizon that__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> without doubt </span>__will be accessible to many actors – Russia and China among them__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – though with some delay. Metal-free firearms, autonomous micro-robots, selective chemical agents etc. – could </span>__all____lead____to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very </span>__disturbing threats to the security of the USA,____posed by military opponents, agents or terrorists.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus, a hard look at future security in the framework not of narrow military advantage, but of </span>__enlightened national interest__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> could well </span>__lead to the insight that international limitations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the most dangerous NT applications </span>__would be advantageous for the USA.__

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Link Work</span>==== 
**US deployment causes an arms race between US, Russia, and China – the mere act of introducing viable technology triggers the link**
**Altmann 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany (Nanotechnology and Preventive Arms Control, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://edoc.vifapol.de/opus/volltexte/2008/668/pdf/berichtaltmann.pdf]]</span>) CMR *In context of nano </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span>__Whereas__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> armed </span>__conflict between USA, Russia and China seems remote at present__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, nevertheless these </span>__states____keep__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their respective forces and train them for such a contingency. At the fundamental level, </span>__nuclear____deterrence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is still at work, too. Thus, </span>__motives to use new technology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in order </span>__to prevail__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in such a war – or to prevent that an opponent can prevail – continue to </span>__exist__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As a consequence, a </span>__competition in military technology is__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in some way </span>__going on__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all the time. </span>__With__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__outlook for revolutionary change in many fields, NT could intensify this process__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> drastically – </span>__accelerating arms races could develop in all areas of military NT applications__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. • One can even argue that to some extent, a similar mechanism is in effect between partners in a military alliance. On the one hand, there is the principal possibility that the political situation in the partner country may change at some time in the future, so that </span>__armed conflict__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and military threats </span>__can no longer be excluded__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> completely. 63 On the other hand, arms-race pressures on allies work via the common potential opponent(s). And for the less fast advancing partners there is the argument that for </span>__co-operation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in armed conflict, </span>__standardisation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>__interoperability____require____preventing too large a gap to a technologically leading partner__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 64 Thus, it is </span>__not difficult to conceive of a rush__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> towards, e.g., autonomous </span>__combat vehicles, should one country start introducing them__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not only between potential opponents, but also among partners – and the same for micro-robots, mini-missiles etc.</span>

**Existential**

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bostrom</span>**//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 20</span>//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">02</span>**//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards </span>//
__A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that //might// have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization.__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[4]</span> __Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that </span>__a smaller nuclear exchange__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, between India and Pakistan for instance, </span>__is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

====2NC Uniqueness==== 
**SQ development of nanotech is civilian**
**Altmann 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany (Nanotechnology and Preventive Arms Control, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://edoc.vifapol.de/opus/volltexte/2008/668/pdf/berichtaltmann.pdf]]</span>) CMR *In context of nano </span>

__No__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reliable </span>__information on military R&D of NT in Russia was found__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Overview articles on NT work at large make clear that </span>__there is a____wide range of civilian activities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, even though hampered by economic difficulties. 54 Russian institutions take part in many international collaborations. In its National Security Concept of 2000, the </span>__Russian Federation stresses__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its </span>__concern__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, on a general level, with ‘the growing </span>__technological surge__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of some leading powers and their </span>__growing possibilities to create new-generation weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and military hardware’. Among the principles for use of military force, should that become necessary, it is stated that ‘the restructuring and conversion of the defence industries should not come into conflict with the creation of new technologies and research-technical possibilities, the modernisation of weapons, military and specialised hardware, and the strengthening of positions of Russian producers on the world market of weapons’. 55 With a long tradition in military high technology and active NT R&D, there can be no doubt that Russia will be capable of using NT in various ways in the armed forces, should this become a high priority. </span>__No hard information on military R&D for NT in China was found__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__NT research__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in general </span>__is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very </span>__advanced__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in China; centres have been set up in the Chinese Academy of Sciences and various universities. Chinese institutions participate in international collaborations, and international conferences have taken place in China. The government has set up a National Coordination Committee for nanoscience and nanotechnology; in the list of participating ministries and agencies, </span>__no____defence-related institution was given explicitly__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 56 However, it is probably safe to assume that the wording ‘and so on’ comprises the Ministry of Defence or the Commission of Science and Technology for National Defence. Relatively </span>__active__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in basic NT research and with expanding activities in military high technology at large, </span>__China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is certainly </span>__able to develop all kinds of military applications__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Of the more than 30 countries with NT activities or plans, or the </span>__15 most active__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in publications or patents, many </span>__will__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> nearly </span>__exclusively focus on civilian products__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and markets. E.g. </span>__Taiwan and South Korea will__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> likely </span>__continue their traditional economic path__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> into the NT era. </span>__Japan is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one of the biggest </span>__players in civilian NT__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but has not been that active in military high technology in general. </span>__This will probably hold for NT__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the future except if the general Japanese policy were to change.</span>

**Unique link**
**Altmann 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany (Nanotechnology and Preventive Arms Control, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://edoc.vifapol.de/opus/volltexte/2008/668/pdf/berichtaltmann.pdf]]</span>) CMR *In context of nano </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Speculating about Russia’s and China’s expenditures, one can note that the </span>__overall military R&D budgets__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the two other official nuclear-weapons states UK and France </span>__are about $ 4 billion and $ 3 billion per year__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, respectively, so that the NT-related expense given or estimated above is about one tenth of a per cent (it is 0.6 per cent for the USA with about $ 40 billion total). Assuming a similar ratio for Russia (total military R&D about $ 2 billion) and China (roughly $ 1 billion), one arrives at NT-related figures of $ 2 million and $ 1 million, respectively. 59 Doubling or tripling would raise the numbers to the level of the UK. Summing all the mentioned countries and allowing 10-20 additional ones with on average $ 2 million/year would yield a </span>__global expenditure outside of the USA of between $ 30 and $ 40 million per year__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If that were true, the </span>__ratio between the USA and the rest of the world__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would be </span>__between 8:1 and 6:1__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As a more cautious estimate one can assume that the present spending ratio is between 4:1 and 10:1. However, the very </span>__small relative portion in the military R&D budget in all countries____indicates__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that there is </span>__considerable leeway for increases__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – and experiences suggest that </span>__expenses will____strongly____increase as technologies move__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from research to development, and again from there </span>__to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> acquisition and </span>__deployment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Ground CP==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should:**
**-substantially increase funding for civilian nanotechnology research and development with a focus on nanotechnology for clean energy;**
**-adhere to the arms control regime, including the verification measures, advocated by our Altmann evidence;**
**-pause current military development of nanotechnology;**
**-prohibit its use of nanotechnology in space beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**Their solvency advocate thinks broad application of nanotech is good**
**NSF 01** (March National Science Foundation. SOCIETAL IMPLICATIONS OF NANOSCIENCE AND NANOTECHNOLOGY, 10.1.1.156.2702.pdf) CMR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the tremendous potential benefits of nanotechnology, and the concern that it be developed with sensitivity to potential negative implications, the workshop participants offered the following recommendations: • </span>__Make support for social and economic research studies on nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a high priority. Include social science research on the societal implications in the nanotechnology research centers, and consider creation of a distributed research center for social and economic research. Build openness, disclosure, and public participation into the process of developing nanotechnology research and development program direction. • The </span>__National Nanotechnology Coordination Office should establish a mechanism to inform, educate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and </span>__involve the public regarding potential impacts of nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The mechanism should receive feedback from the nanotechnologySocietal Implications of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology 17 community, social scientists, the private sector, and the public with the goals of (a) continuously monitoring the potential societal opportunities and challenges; and (b) providing timely input to responsible organizations. • Create the knowledge base and institutional infrastructure to evaluate nanotechnology’s scientific, technological, and societal impacts and implications from short-term (3 to 5 year), medium-term (5 to 20 year), and long-term (over 20 year) perspectives. This must include interdisciplinary research that incorporates a systems approach (research-technology development-societal impacts), life cycle analysis, and real time monitoring and assessment. • </span>__Educate and train a new generation of scientists__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and workers </span>__skilled in nanoscience and nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at all levels. Develop specific curricula and programs designed to: (a) </span>__introduce nanoscale concepts into mathematics, science, engineering, and technological education__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; (b) include societal implications and ethical sensitivity in the training of nanotechnologists; (c) </span>__produce__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a sufficient number and variety of well-trained social and economic scientists prepared to work in the nanotechnology area; (d) </span>__develop__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> effective means for giving nanotechnology students an </span>__interdisciplinary perspective__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> while strengthening the disciplinary expertise they will need to make maximum professional contributions; and (e) </span>__establish fruitful partnerships between industry and educational institutions to provide nanotechnology students adequate experience with nanoscale fabrication__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, manipulation, and characterization techniques. • </span>__Encourage professional societies to develop__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> forums and continuing education </span>__activities to inform__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, educate, and involve </span>__professionals in nanoscience__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and nanotechnology</span>

**Altmann evidence arms control regime is sweet**
**Altmann 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany, (“Uses (Military, ) of Nanotechnology— Too Much Complexity for International Security?.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1099-0526|Complexity]][[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1002/cplx.v14:1/issuetoc|Volume 14, Issue 1]]</span>, wiley) CMR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Guided by the goals of preventing the most dangerous military applications of nanotechnology, of designing limitations in such a way that they are adequately verifiable—in particular that usually observation without opening of weapons systems or magnifying equipment will suffice—and of not hampering beneficial applications of nanotechnology, I have arrived at the following recommendations [more detail in Ref. 6, Ch. 7]: </span>__Ban on self-contained sensor systems smaller than 3 to 5 cm__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (with few exceptions). </span>__Ban on small arms__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and munitions that contain no metal. </span>__Ban on missiles below 0.2–0.5 m size__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Ten-years moratorium on nonmedical implants and other body manipulation. </span>__Ban on__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reusable armed, mobile systems without crew, with numerical limits on unarmed systems. If that is not achievable, then at least prohibition of autonomous targeting and weapon release. Ban on small mobile, (partly) artificial systems below 0.2–0.5 m size, with strictly limited exceptions (e.g. for exploration of shattered or dangerous buildings). Comprehensive ban on </span>__space weapons, with numerical limits on small satellites__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Chemical Weapons Convention should be upheld, the Biological Weapons Convention should be strengthened by a compliance and verification protocol. </span>__Nanotechnology-based new agents should be included into the Conventions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__All these prohibitions should hold for the military sector__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and start at the stage of development. To prevent fast circumvention by modification of civilian systems, correspondingly adapted rules must apply also in the civilian sector. </span>__Compliance can mainly be verified by on-site inspections in military installations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__training and testing grounds, but civilian laboratories__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, firms etc. </span>__have to be included.__

====__2NC Solves Heg__==== 
**Their author – just development spurs US global competitiveness, space not key**
**<span style="color: black;">Jenkins 9</span>****<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Eva S.—Lt Col, USAF, Ph.D, career intelligence officer, Air Force instructor, and a European, Eurasian, and NATO area specialist, served on the Joint Staff Directorate of Intelligence staff, on the Defense Intelligence Agency Director’s Special Projects staff, and as a National Security Agency Director’s Fellow, received her Ph.D in international studies, “NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY”, March 18th, pdf, chart omitted, italics in original, accessed May 3, 2011, CMR]</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Approximately </span>__4,000 companies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and research </span>__institutes__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are </span>__working on nanotechnology developments__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> worldwide. Of those, </span>__1,900 are in the services industry__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and over 1,000 companies are manufacturing products. The </span>__worldwide nanotechnology markets are____projected to grow__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from $300 billion in 2006 to more than a trillion dollars in 2015. 70 As of 2007, the leading nations in nanotechnology development are the </span>__U.S., Japan, China, and Germany with China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> being one of the “world’s leaders in terms of newly established nanotechnology firms.” 71 </span>__Russia just stood up their version of NNI__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and pledged over one billion dollars a year toward the initiative. The global requirement will be for two million skilled workers in the nanoscience and nanotechnology field worldwide with at least a third of those “needed in the U.S. to main global competitiveness.” 72 Sixty-three percent of U.S. business leaders in the nanotechnology field believe that the U.S. is the world nanotechnology research, development and commercialization leader; however, they contend that the lead is narrowing. 73 Using purchasing power parity exchange rates, in 2006 the top ten nations investing public funding into nanotechnology research and development in priority order were the U.S., China, Japan, South Korea, Germany, France, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, India and Russia. The nation’s leading private sector investments in 2006 were the U.S. and Japan, together accounting for nearly three-fourths of corporate investment. 74 While the U.S. led all other nations in scientific journal paper publication in 2005 with 24% of the world output, China was the only major competitor coming in second with 12% of the world’s output. The </span>__U.S. dominance remains today__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but it also </span>__represents a decline__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from publishing 40% of the world’s papers in the 1990s. The European Union led the U.S. in terms of quantitative analysis comparison of published papers but the European Union’s share is in decline. China’s share is rapidly increasing and is projected to surpass that of the U.S. if it has not already. The following chart indicates China’s growth in competitiveness, which has now surpassed the U.S.’ and Japan’s, both of which are on the decline. The nations with the highest commitment to nanotechnology were South Korea, China, and Japan with the European Union and the U.S. falling below world averages. A testament to the quality of research and development in the U.S., the papers from the U.S. were most frequently cited. Furthermore, the U.S. led in the area of patent grants. 76 According to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, more the 4,800 patents have been identified under the nanoclassification heading. 77 Statistics tell only a part of the story. The </span>__observations of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> space and </span>__nanotechnology experts are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__important__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to assess. The ongoing research and development, travels, and joint publications of these professionals provide critical insight into the capabilities of the competitors as well as the potential of future nanotechnology-enabled space systems. From the perspective of scientists and engineers at The Aerospace Corporation, a Federally-Funded Research and Development Center supporting the Space and Missile Systems Center, U.S. Space Command among other governmental organizations, the </span>__U.S. is currently leading the world in government funded nanotechnology research and development__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and is </span>__ahead in nanotechnology-enabled solar cells__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and structural materials. Dr. Donald A. Lewis, Principal Director of the Strategic Awareness and Policy Directorate (Project West Wing), and his team assess that </span>__Japan__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a major player in research and development and is ahead of the U.S. in nanotechnology-enabled battery development. 78 </span>__China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is working diligently and deliberately in nanotechnology focused research and development while </span>__Russia__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is </span>__not far behind__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The European Union as an entity is also making significant strides. 79 Experts in academia provide important insights and observations as well.</span>

**Promotes competitiveness, key to leadership**
**Ehrlich 2008** – phd economics from U of M, President, ESC Company. one of the nation’s leading business economists. His firm, ESC Company, combines economic analysis, business development, and communications skills to solve a wide range of business problems (Last date cited = 2008. “Manufacturing, Competitiveness and Technological Leadership in the Semiconductor Industry.” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.lutherforest.org/pdfs/Fab4xEconomicStudy.pdf]]</span>) CMR

__Preserving American Leadership__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">New York’s </span>__leadership in nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> directly </span>__promotes U.S. competitiveness__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Right now, U.S. technological leadership is being challenged. While </span>__semiconductor output__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is growing rapidly, the world market </span>__is growing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at an even more </span>__rapid rate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>__U.S. market share is declining__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Moreover, the U.S. is not keeping up with regard to </span>__creating new and cutting-edge capacity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The U.S. share of what the Semiconductor Industry Association classifies as “leading edge” chip production is declining. In fact, the Fab 4X facility is the only 300mm, 22nm fab currently slated to be constructed in the U.S. (The Luther Forest AMD facility will begin manufacturing product at the 32nm node, and will later move to 22nm technology as the availability of product designs, and customer demand move in that direction.) Other than for R&D purposes, the last major 300mm production facility built in the U.S. prior to this one was built in 2007, and no others are now known to be contemplated. What is </span>__technological leadership__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and why </span>__is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it </span>__important__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? Economists understand that an </span>__economy cannot be “best” at everything__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But </span>__being best at the right things is a critical part of maintaining the long-term U.S. standard of living__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Long-term leadership in the semiconductor industry is a matter of more than output and employment, although these obviously accrue to leadership. Leadership </span>__allows__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. manufacturing </span>__firms to set the research agenda__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for the global industry, and </span>__lets the U.S. be the innovation leader__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for the entire semiconductor value chain, including not just production, but design and engineering and research and development. This is </span>__critical__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the U.S.’ long-term prospects </span>__because__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> foreign </span>__competitors have their own advantages__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including the ability to imitate U.S. innovations. Moreover, </span>__competitors may be advantaged by tax policies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, labor costs, or, as is sometimes alleged, </span>__trade protection__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, corporate governance practice, or outright </span>__subsidy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The only way for the </span>__U.S. to sustain its competitivene__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ss, therefore, is to </span>__stay ahead of its competition through innovation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. – to be the rabbit that the greyhounds chase but never catch. Industry leadership has other benefits. For example, the industry relies on a variety of engineering standards to which all firms comply, such as those of the International Standards organization regarding quality. The National Institute for Science and Technology plays a leading role in the promulgation of those standards, but only because of American technological leadership. Absent that leadership, influence over the development of industry standards could migrate to other organizations outside the U.S. </span>

**Nanotech is the frontier of innovation – us must win**
**Salvi, 2008** – vice president of the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nanobusiness.org/|NanoBusiness Alliance]]</span> (LAT op-ed“Nanotech: Yay or nay?.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.latimes.com/la-op-salvi-kimbrell25feb25,0,7990739.story]]</span>) CMR


__<span style="color: black;">Nanotechnology is the frontier of innovation</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">; given its potential, it is not surprising that it is the </span>__<span style="color: black;">focus of a global scientific race</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. The </span>__<span style="color: black;">prize</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> for winning this race </span>__<span style="color: black;">is leadership</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> in the production of </span>__<span style="color: black;">renewable energy</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, clean water, cancer cures and </span>__<span style="color: black;">next-generation computing</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. The U</span>__<span style="color: black;">.S. government took an early lea</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">d in 2002 with the 21st Century Research and Development Act, which pledged $5 billion over four years to become a leader in nano science. </span>__<span style="color: black;">That lead has steadily been eroded</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Japan</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> announced an equivalent initiative within months of ours. Since then, France, </span>__<span style="color: black;">Germany, Britain, Russia, China, Taiwan, India</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> and Singapore have </span>__<span style="color: black;">stepped up to the plate</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> with significant investments.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The 21st Century Research and Development Act expires this year, and </span>__<span style="color: black;">we have not been in a technology race this close since the Apollo project</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. Given what is at stake and </span>__<span style="color: black;">the degree to which the U.S. relies on innovation to fuel its economy, nanotechnology is a global competition that America can ill-afford not to win.</span>__

====2NC Solves Warming==== 

**Nanotech for clean energy solves – 1AC author.**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lane and Kalil, 05</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Neal Lane, PhD and senior fellow in science and technology policy at the Baker Institute, Thomas Kalil, Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley, “The National Nanotechnology Initiative: Present at the Creation” Summer 2005]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">CMR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Still, as a commercial enterprise, </span>__nanotechnology is in its infancy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example, </span>__companies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are still not able to reliably purchase high-quality nanotechnology building blocks such as nanotubes, metal oxide nanoparticles, and fullerenes. Whither the NNI? Although the NNI has made significant progress, we are concerned that federal funding for nanoscale S&E has been flat in recent years. The administration’s FY 2006 budget, for example, actually proposes a decrease in funding as compared to the level of support provided by Congress in FY 2005. We believe that there is a compelling case for </span>__sustained increases in federal funding for nanoscale S&E__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, particularly if this is done in the context of increased investments in the physical sciences and engineering more generally. First, </span>__federal agencies are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> still able to </span>__fund____only__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a </span>__tiny fraction of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the meritorious</span> __proposals__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that are submitted. In its most recent solicitation for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Centers, for example, </span>__NSF__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> received 48 proposals and </span>__could fund only 6__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even when an agency does fund a proposal, the size and duration of the grant are often inadequate. Second, foreign governments are continuing to aggressively ramp up their investments in nanoscale S&E. Given that international leadership in nanotechnology is up for grabs, </span>__allowing U.S. funding to stagnate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> while foreign governments continue to provide double-digit increases seems to us to be an incredibly risky strategy. Third, </span>__only the federal government__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is in a </span>__position to support__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the long-term </span>__highrisk research__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that is beyond the time horizons of companies. Finally, researchers have demonstrated the potential of nanotechnology to make important contributions to a wide range of national goals and key economic sectors, such as health, clean energy, information technology, new materials, national and homeland security, sustainable development, manufacturing, and space exploration. Stagnant or declining budgets will make it difficult to pursue these and other opportunities. Below are just a few of the areas where new and expanded initiatives in nanoscale S&E would make a big difference. </span>__Invest in nanotechnology for clean energy.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Experts believe that </span>__combating global warming may require__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__ability to generate 15 to 30 terawatts of carbon-free energy worldwide by 2050__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. By comparison, today’s total global energy consumption is a little less than 15 terawatts. Considering that 85 percent of our current global primary energy consumption is from fossil fuels, this </span>__is a daunting challenge__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Researchers have identified a variety of ways in which </span>__nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> could </span>__help__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> solve our long-term energy challenges. These include a dramatic </span>__reduction in the cost of photovoltaics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, direct </span>__photoconversion of light__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and water to produce hydrogen, and </span>__transformational advances in energy storage__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and transmission. The United States desperately needs an Apollotype project to reduce the threat of climate change and its dependence on Middle East oil. Nanotechnology could play a key role in creating new sources of carbon-free energy that are competitive with fossil fuels.</span>


**Solves the climate crisis in 10 years**
**Berger 2008** – (Michael, <span style="color: #222222;">Founder of Nanowerk LLC and editor of the company's popular</span>//**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">nanotechnology</span>**//<span style="color: #222222;"> website nanowerk.com</span>Nanowerk mag, “Why don't we have a nanotechnology Apollo Program for clean energy?” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.nanowerk.com/spotlight/spotid=5531.php]]</span>) CMR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nanotechnology in energy consumption</span>
__Transforming energy utilization__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and transmission – at the </span>__heart of nanoscale behavior__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, one often finds emergent phenomena, in which a complex outcome emerges from the correlated interactions of many simple constituents. By </span>__understanding__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the fundamental rules of </span>__correlations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and emergence and then by learning how to control them, we </span>__could produce__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for example, an entirely </span>__new generation of energy utilization__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and transmission processes, such as in phase change materials for </span>__thermal energy conversion__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, strong light-matter interaction and collective charge behavior for light emission nearing theoretical efficiency, and radically different combustion chemistry of alternative fuels. Understanding the emergent behavior of materials and </span>__chemical reactivity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the nanoscale offers remarkable opportunities in a broad arena of applications including solid-state lighting, electrical generators, </span>__clean__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and efficient </span>__combustion__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of 21st century transportation fuels, catalytic processes for efficient production and utilization of chemical fuels, and superconductivity for resistance-less electricity transmission.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2001, twenty-two percent of electricity used in the U.S., equivalent to eight percent of the nation’s total energy, was used for artificial light. Solid state lighting (SSL) modalities present an opportunity to achieve tremendous advances in energy efficiency (Nanocomposite solid-state lighting). By discovering and controlling the materials and nanostructure properties that mediate the competing conversion of electrons to light and heat, </span>__nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will address the challenge of </span>__converting____every__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> injected </span>__electron into useful photons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The anticipated results are ultra-high-efficiency light-emitting materials and nanostructures, and a deep scientific understanding of how light interacts with matter, with broad impact on science and technology areas beyond SSL.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are other, more indirect – and only incremental – impacts that nanotechnology could have on energy usage. For instance, by using high-performance nanocomposite materials, cars and airplanes could be made much lighter, thereby improving fuel efficiencies. But the major improvement in the transportation sector will come once nanotechnology-enabled fuel cells have become commercially viable alternatives to the internal combustion engine.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The solution: Change the shotgun approach to nanotechnology funding</span>
__Nanotechnologies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will have a major role to play in almost all future clean energy applications and that's why the scope – but not the scale – of the DOE's Energy Frontier Research Centers initiative seems such a good starting point. Add three zeroes to the current funding and you have the beginning of a promising energy initiative.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is no doubt that nanotechnologies </span>__could provide__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__solutions to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> our </span>__energy problems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not today, and not tomorrow, but with a massive, coordinated and international effort a </span>__10-20 year timeframe seems not unrealistic__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Today's various national nanotechnology programs fund their vast hodgepodge of research initiatives more from a viewpoint of basic research (or, in the case of the U.S., military wish lists) than with a focus on commercial implementation – in the process scattering funding resources by trying to cover each and every potential application.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instead, the leading dozen or so nanotechnology nations should get together and commit to a concerted and massively funded 10-year program to develop commercially viable, </span>__clean energy solutions based on nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Rather than have bureaucratic government departments oversee the effort there should be a new agency – much like the can-do organization that NASA was in the 1960s – to drive this effort forward in close cooperation with academia and industry.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not only would this </span>__provide a way out of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the energy and</span> __climate crisis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, it would finally provide the much-needed, large-scale commercialization of nanotechnologies that will lead to entirely new industries. The funding can be found, the technology can be developed, all it takes is political will...</span>

====__2NC Arms Control Regime S Cheating__==== 
**Russia and china follow the US – if the US doesn’t ban it, arms race guaranteed**
**Altmann 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Experimentelle Physik III, Universität Dortmund/Bonn International Center for Conversion (J., “Limiting Military Uses of Nanotechnology and Converging Technologies.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://cgi-host.uni-marburg.de/~nano-mr/downloads/s3/altmann_paper_final.pdf]]</span>) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One has to admit that the </span>__chances of international agreement__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> along the lines recommended here are not too high. </span>__The main____problem__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is </span>__presented by the USA__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, already in its general tradition of </span>__striving for a technological edge__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over potential adversaries. The problem is aggravated by the present US administration with its questioning of arms-control treaties and preparations for preventive war. Thus, convincing the USA to even take part in discussions about preventive limits may be impossible in the coming years. </span>__In such a situation, it may also be difficult to get countries such as China or Russia to agree on limiting their military NT activities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Concerning space weapons, both countries have argued for a ban__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Both are active__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and capable players </span>__in NT at large__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Information on military R&D is scarce – it seems that at present there is little military NT activity underway. There is no doubt, however, that </span>__Russia and China are observing US developments carefully__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; it is reasonable to assume that </span>__they could follow with only a few years delay should the USA decide to deploy new NT-based military systems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Other big arms producers could follow later; exports to many places have to be expected. China and Russia should understand that at least higher transparency would be useful to reduce the influence of suspicion and worst-case assumptions. 13 </span>

**US banning nanotech stops other countries**
**Altmann 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany, (“Uses (Military, ) of Nanotechnology— Too Much Complexity for International Security?.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1099-0526|Complexity]][[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1002/cplx.v14:1/issuetoc|Volume 14, Issue 1]]</span>, wiley) CMR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nanotechnology is presenting a fundamental problem: How should humankind deal with revolutionary technology on the international level? One possible approach has been stated by the first US conference on converging technologies: ‘‘... reduce the likelihood of war by providing an </span>__overwhelming U.S. technological advantage__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... it is essential to be technologically as far ahead of potential opponents as possible.’’ [4, Section E]. This has a certain immanent logic, however, it </span>__overlooks__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> two crucial issues: the </span>__interactions in the international system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the </span>__dangers to the USA__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> itself </span>__that could ensue in future__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Altogether a different approach would certainly be better, following the </span>__goal of using__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the potential of </span>__nanotechnology for humankind__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and prevent its dangers by global good governance. This means including the military applications into the international debate about nanotechnology and its necessary regulation. </span>__Because of its technological lead and its political weight the USA have a key role in this__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Can it afford to engage in preventive limitation of its military technology? </span>__For the foreseeable future there will be no serious technological challenge by a potential military opponent__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span>__with__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its </span>__intense__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> military </span>__research and development the USA is organizing a virtual arms race with itself__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As a consequence </span>__unilateral restraint would__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for quite some time </span>__not lead to threats from opponent military nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that would be </span>__dangerous for the USA__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This could </span>__buy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sufficient </span>__time____for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the international </span>__community to agree on adequate limitations that can be verified__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reliably. Admittedly this needs the insight on the part of the USA that restraint and international limitation lie in its enlightened national interest. At least with the current administration such insight cannot be expected— however, the USA also has a certain tradition of mutual limitation of military capabilities, including new technologies. One can hope that the prospect of terrorist threats with nanotechnology-based biochemical weapons or micro-robots will promote this insight.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC AT Space Key -- NSF Evidence </span>==== 

**They’ve got it backwards – we’ll reread what the NSF evidence ACTUALLY says – it says that nanotech can help space, and may create new types of nanostructures, not that space is KEY to nanotech development.**

**NSF 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (March National Science Foundation. SOCIETAL IMPLICATIONS OF NANOSCIENCE AND NANOTECHNOLOGY, 10.1.1.156.2702.pdf) CMR </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Exploration The stringent fuel constraints for lifting payloads into earth orbit and beyond, and the </span>__desire to send spacecraft away__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the sun for extended missions (where solar power would be greatly diminished) </span>__compel__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> continued </span>__reduction in size,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> weight, and power consumption of payloads. </span>__Nanostructured materials__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and devices </span>__promise solutions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to these challenges. </span>__Nanostructuring is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__critical____to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the design and </span>__manufacture of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> lightweight, high-strength, thermally </span>__stable materials for aircraft,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rockets, space stations, and planetary/solar exploratory platforms. The augmented utilization of miniaturized, highly automated systems will also lead to dramatic improvements in manufacturing technology. Moreover, the </span>__low-gravity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, high-vacuum </span>__space environment may aid__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__development of nanostructures__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and nanoscale </span>__systems____that cannot be created on Earth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====1NC Heg Advantage==== 
**Nanosats do nothing for 15 years and doesn’t deter**
**Huntington 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – lt col, USAF (john, Center for Strategy and Technology Air War College. “IMPROVING SATELLITE PROTECTION WITH NANOTECHNOLOGY.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA474825&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Though </span>__nanotechnology isn’t yet mature__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> enough </span>__to be considered a solution for protecting satellites__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from ground-based directed energy weapons, the USAF shouldn’t ignore it. On the contrary, the USAF should continue investing in nanotechnology research and development to understand and harness its capabilities for protecting critical satellite systems because nanotechnology will have a significant impact on future satellite design. Though most </span>__nanotechnology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> work is </span>__still in basic research__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (i.e., 6.1), it clearly is a highrisk/high-payoff and transformational space capability critical to continued space supremacy. </span>__By 2025 it will have a significant____impact__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on United States satellites, touching on the structure and functions of all satellites in the form of radiation-hardened microprocessers, enhanced surface coatings, and reduced satellite size and weight. In the near-tem, radiation-hardened electronics and surface coatings are likely to provide the greatest benefits toward protecting satellite systems from directed energy weapons. </span>__Structural enhancements derived from macro-scale nano-structures are likely at least 10-15 years away__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The only outer space programs that use nanotech will do microsatellites**
**Altmann 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany (Nanotechnology and Preventive Arms Control, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://edoc.vifapol.de/opus/volltexte/2008/668/pdf/berichtaltmann.pdf]]</span>) CMR *In context of nano </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For military uses of outer space, the </span>__Space Assembly__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Manufacture </span>__programme____aims at__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very large, </span>__light-weight space structures. Micro-satellites__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for analysis of resources on non-terrestrial objects, </span>__miniaturised robotics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for processing materials and building structures, propellants and power generation </span>__will be investigated__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Those fail anyway**
**Smith 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kevin J. Smith, naval postgraduate school December 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2010/Dec/10Dec_Smith.pdf]]</span> ) NA</span>
__Small satellites do suffer from__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> some disadvantages. A primary disadvantage is that their smaller size limits their ability to </span>__generate power__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. There is simply </span>__less volume in which to place batteries__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for power storage, and less surface area to employ solar panels for power conversion. This means they are </span>__less capable of accommodating design demands__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such as redundant systems, fine pointing requirements, onboard processing, and multiple payloads. The restrictions on power also limit their communications data rates and subsequently their missions. It is a major reason why small satellites are well suited for simple mission tasking. However, there are singular missions that small satellites cannot currently accomplish as well as larger satellites. Imaging is a mission that is severely hindered by the satellite’s small size. These small satellites have </span>__limits to the size of the payloads that can be placed on them__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example, the size of the imaging aperture that can be placed on a small satellite is smaller than what could fit on a larger satellite, and subsequently limits the obtainable resolution. Another aspect that is tied to the satellite’s power limitations is the orbit the satellite is placed in. With minimal capability to generate power, signals transmitted to and from the satellites are limited in their range. Low Earth Orbit (LEO) is the primary orbit for small satellites due to this limitation. LEO has its own list of advantages, such as minimal range, and disadvantages, such as shortened lifetimes as compared with higher orbiting middle earth and geostationary/geosynchronous orbits. These advantages and disadvantages inherently belong to the satellites that reside there. As summarized by the Chairman and Director of SSTL, small satellite manufactures balance these advantages and disadvantages following the general principle of the 80/20 rule, 80% of the performance for 20% of the price [4][7]. </span>

**Terrestrial backup systems solve**
**Morgan, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Adjunct Professor of Security Policy Studies @ University of Pittsburgh, Senior Political Scientist @ RAND Corporation, PhD, Policy Studies @ University of Maryland, M.A., Air Power Arts & Sciences @ Air University School for Advanced Airpower Studies, M.A. @ Webster University, B.S. @ University of Maryland (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__Another approach to reducing an adversary’s benefits in attacking space systems would be to provide redundant capabilities using terrestrial backups.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed, </span>__such solutions are currently being pursued. Undersea cables and other__ __terrestrial links already provide reach-back communication from well-established forward areas of operation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, although they are vulnerable to sophisticated attackers (or accidents, such as the recent Mediterranean fiber cut). </span>__High-altitude lighter-than-air craft and long-endurance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> unmanned </span>__aircraft__ __systems offer possibilities to supplement space-based platforms for some ISR and communication missions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The type of assets currently being developed would not be survivable in areas where an adversary could challenge friendly control of the airspace, but </span>__long-endurance aerial surveillance could__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, to some extent, </span>__supplement space capabilities__ __on the periphery of an area of operations, and platforms flown in secure airspace could be used to relay some links inside the battlespace__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, thereby reducing the payoff an aggressor might yield in attacking satellites supporting. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMPACT DEFENSE </span>

====1NC Warming==== 
**No tech**
**Locklin 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, physics, UC Davis (“<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://scottlocklin.wordpress.com/2010/08/24/nano-nonsense-25-years-of-charlatanry/|Nano-nonsense: 25 years of charlatanry]]</span>.” <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://scottlocklin.wordpress.com/2010/08/24/nano-nonsense-25-years-of-charlatanry/]]</span>) CMR *drexler = one of original proponants of nanostuff </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That’s it. That’s what the whole book is. Oh yes, there are a few collections of intimidating tables and graphs purporting to indicate that such a thing might be possible, and Drexler does sketch out some impressive looking mechanical designs of what he supposes a nanobot might look like, but, without more than a passing justification. He seems to </span>__lack____the imagination__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and of course, the </span>__physics to figure out__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what a real </span>__nanosized doodad might look like.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Much of his thesis seems to be hand wavey arguments that his “looking rather a lot like a meter scale object” designs would work on a nano or small microscale. I know for a fact that they will not. You can wave your hands around all you want; when you stick an atomic force microscope down on nanosized thingees, </span>__you know what forces they produce. They don’t act like macro-objects, at all__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Drexler would also occasionally notice that his perfect little robots would probably, you know, oxidize, like most reactive things do, and consign them to Ultra High Vacuum chambers in a fit of embarrassment. Then sometimes he would forget about the chemical properties of oxygen, and enthusiastically stick them everywhere. </span>__None of the chemistry you’d need__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to figure out to even begin to do this </span>__was done__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in his book. </span>__Little__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> real </span>__thought____was____given to thermodynamics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or where the energy was coming from for all these cool Maxwell-Demon like “perpetual motion” reactions. It was never noticed that computational chemistry (aka figuring out molecular properties from the Schroedinger equation) is basically useless. </span>__Experimental results__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> were </span>__rarely mentioned__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, or explained away with the glorious equation of Schroedinger, with which, all things seemed possible. Self assembly was deemed routine, despite the fact that nobody knows how to engineer such thing using macroscopic objects. There is </span>__modern__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and even ancient </span>__nano sized tech__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; lithographic </span>__electronic chip features__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are down to this size now, and of course, materials like asbestos were always nano sized. </span>__As far as nano objects for manipulating things on nanoscales; such things don’t exist__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Imagining </span>__self replicating nanobots__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or </span>__nano machines is ridiculous__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__We don’t even have micromachines__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Mechanical objects on microscales do not exist. On </span>__milliscales, everything__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that I have seen is </span>__lithographically etched__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__or__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> made on a watchmakers lathe. Is it cool? Yep; it’s kind of cool. I have already worked for a “millitech” company which was going to use tiny accelerometers to do sensing stuff in your cell phone. Will it change the universe? Nope. Millitech miniaturization has been available for probably 300 years now (assuming the Greeks didn’t have it); lithography just allows us to mass produce such things out of different materials.</span>

**NT helps oil ops, not clean energy**
**Oil and Gas, Eurasia 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (April, “Nanotechnology to Boost Oil Recovery in Russia Up to 60-65 Percent.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oilandgaseurasia.com/articles/p/138/article/1473/]]</span>) CMR </span>

__Nanotechnology____operations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for enhanced oil recovery (NTOEOR) </span>__include operations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (methods, techniques) governed by nanoscale phenomena, or which employ nanoscale particles. The NTOEOR include, first of all, technologies based on application of thermo and physical fields, as well as biological substances. This group also includes technologies based on chemical and gaseous agents with nanoscale impact on the reservoir systems [2, 5, 6]. Some examples of modern NTOEOR include: [2, 6]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1. One problem in the oil and gas industry is </span>__retaining__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__reservoir features__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the bottom zone after production operations (pump change, BHT, timed well-kills, etc.). Every such operation can reduce well productivity by 20-30 percent. Hydrophobic emulsion enriched with nano-particle stabilizers boosts the density by changing the percentage of heavier additives in the water phase in the range of 1,050-1,500 kg/cu.m and has high temporal stability (over 40 days), up to +80 С heat resistance, more than 50 hrs thermal stability, and a low pour point (below –8 С).</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2. Leakage of cement sheaths leads to premature access of bottom water into the production, gas-water-oil crossflow, pollution of fresh water horizons, etc. </span>__Adding nano-dispersive__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> modifiers to cement </span>__can enhance the strength of concrete and foam concrete__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1.5-2 times. Advantages of nano-concrete conditioned on the specific structure formed by self-organization of cement stone at nanoscale levels. Proposed by the author combination of magnetic treatment for nano-concrete boosts quality of the material another 1.5-2 times.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 3. Foam systems stabilized by nanoparticles have proven highly effective in reducing the water cut in oil and gas production wells. In the oil industry, this </span>__technology__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span>__been used in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a number of </span>__Russian oil fields__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and has proved </span>__highly effective__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__achieving__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 15-20 percent reductions in water cuts and </span>__1.5-1.7 times oil production growth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as well as providing </span>__500-10,000 tons of extra crude__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> per treated well. This technology (Fig. 1) was applied at the Urengoi gas field at 5 prematurely flooded wells for sand ingress prevention. The technological effect amounted to 16 million cubic meters per well.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 4. Thermogenerator systems are used for the thermochemical treatment of the bottomhole formation zone. Exothermic reaction of metal particles and alkali or acids produces up to 4,000 kcal per kilo of metal. In order for such systems to get deep into oil reservoir, size of the metal particles must be less than 50 nm, which is achieved by their encapsulation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 5. Flooding is the most common domestic technology of oil displacement. Studies show that usage of special agents that sustain the permeability levels by preventing expansion (dispersion) of clay ensures retention or restoration of permeability after its fall [2, 6]. The conducted experimental field tests of this nanotechnology (NTOEOR) showed an </span>__increase in injection capacity rates__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by average 27 percent [6, 7] (Fig. 2). Experiments show that the use of clay stabilizers significantly (10-15 points) increases the rate of oil displacement, resulting in 0.08-0.10 better oil recovery [6, 8].</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMPACT DEFENSE </span>


===Asteroids=== 
====Edelman==== 
=====1NC===== 
**Oh my god an asteroid might kill our great-great-great-great grandchildren yikes! Your discussion of solving some future extinction in a million years presupposes value in future generations and the Child – this excludes the queer, guarantees violence. Alt text: reject the affirmative in favor of resisting enslavement to the future.**

**Edelman, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Lee (professor and chair of the English department at Tufts University, Fletcher Professor of English Literature, Ph.D. from <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yale_University|Yale University]]</span>, a M. Phil. from Yale, an M.A. from Yale, and a B.A. from <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northwestern_University|Northwestern University]]</span>//jh),// No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive// p. 28-31</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bernard Law, the former cardinal of Boston, mistaking (or maybe understanding too well) the degree of authority bestowed on him by the signifier of his patronymic, denounced in 1996 proposed legislation giving health care benefits to … </span>queerest within us, and queerest despite us is that willingness to insist intransitively—to insist that the future stop here.
=====2NC AT Case outweighs===== 
**Causes extinction**
**Sedgwick**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**98.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Eve, former Newman Ivey White Professor of English at Duke University, and then a Distinguished Professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York; </span>__Epistemology of the Closet__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 128-30)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If a fantasy trajectory, utopian in its own terms … and universalizing ones be opened and opened and opened?</span>



**Crushes value to life**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Edelman 2004</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lee Edelman, Prof. English at Tufts University, “No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive,” 2004, pp. 11-13)</span>



Charged<span class="underline0">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> after all, </span>with<span class="underline0"> the task of …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">because unable to close the gap in identity, the division incised by the signifier, that “mean</span><span style="color: red; font-size: 8pt;">i</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ng,” despite itself, means</span>


**AND, No impact to extinction**

**Cobb 82 --** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Theology Emeritus at the Claremont School of Theology and Co-Director of the Center for Process Studies there (“Process theology as political theology.” 1982, Manchester University Press) CMR </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For process theology, as an ecological theology … The human prospect’, to use a phrase from the title of Heilbroner’s book,11 is bleak.</span>



**Extinction doesn’t outweigh everything**

**CALLAHAN 1973** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Daniel, institute of Society and Ethics, The Tyranny of Survival, p. 91-3)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The value of survival could not be so readily abused … </span>__the Pyrrhic victory to end all Pyrrhic victories__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
=====2NC Framework===== 
**Role of the ballot is to determine whether the aff is psychologically healthy**
**Žižek 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Researcher @ University of Ljubljana, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality 124-127 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now I can also answer the obvious counter-argument to this Lacanian notion of the act… additional criterion, to be added to the first ('doing the impossible', retroactively rewriting its own conditions): if this second criterion is not fulfilled, the first is not really met either - that is to say; we are not actually `doing the impossible', traversing the fantasy towards the Real. </span>

====DA Impact Calc==== 
=====1NC===== 
**Nuclear war kills space colonization**
Frank <span class="Heading2Char">White</span>, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, The Overview Effect, <span class="Heading2Char">1998</span> p. 115

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That human beings will want to populate the space frontier … </span> __back so far that will take millions of years to achieve spaceflight again.__

**Solves 10^14 lives per second**
<span class="Heading2Char">Bostrum</span>**__,__** Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University<span class="Heading2Char">, 2002</span>(Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As I write these words, </span>__suns are illuminating__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and heating empty rooms, </span>__…__
__all persons, the potential for one hundred trillion potential human beings is lost for every second of postponement of colonization of our supercluster.[6]__

=====__2NC Impact Calc__===== 
<span class="Underline">**Sun will engulf the earth** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Baum 2010** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University (Seth D., “Is Humanity Doomed? Insights from Astrobiology .” Sustainability 2010, 2, 591-603; doi:10.3390/su2020591, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/2/2/591/pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) CMR </span>

__Geoengineering__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">could extend Earth’s habitable lifetime … </span>__given contemporary knowledge, our best guess is that in a few billion years, life on Earth will cease to be habitable.__

**Supervolcanoes**
**Circovik 2008** -- <span style="color: black;">Senior Research Associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade and Assistant Professor of the Department of Physics at the University of Novi Sad in Serbia and Montenegro (Milan, </span>Observation selection effects and global catastrophic risks, in “global catastrophic risk,” ed Bostrom and Circovik, Oxford University Press, 2008) CMR

__Super-volcanic episodes__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (see Chapter 10, this volume) - … recently (e.g., McGuire, 2002; Roscoe, 2001).</span>

<span class="Underline">**Getting off the rock solves these**</span>
**Richards 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – architecture prof at University of vermont (Last date cited, “The End of the World and Architecture.” [[http://lifeboat.com/papers/the.end.of.the.world.and.architecture.pdf]]) CMR</span>

Space coloniescan<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> provide a means of </span>sustaininghuman lifedue to<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … colony would have to either self-propell or provide a series of “lifeboats” in the form of interstellar cruisers to relocate the civilization to a new star.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Space colonization now solves the extinction from all those other things** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Baum 2010** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University (Seth D., “Is Humanity Doomed? Insights from Astrobiology .” Sustainability 2010, 2, 591-603; doi:10.3390/su2020591, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/2/2/591/pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>just because Earth cannot sustain us<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> forever, it </span>does not <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … then we can survive for longer than our home planet. Indeed, </span>we can survive<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> until the rest of the universe ceases to be habitable.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear war is existential** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Nelson 2009** – </span>Associate Director for International Programs, Nuclear Security Science and Policy Institute (NSSPI) Professor Emeritus, Nuclear Engineering, Computer Science, and Mathematics Departments <span class="Underline">(“NUCLEAR DISARMAMENT: CAN RI SK ANALYS I S INFORM THE DE BAT E?.” </span>[[http://nsspi.tees.tamus.edu/media/53799/nelson_disarmament_12-09.pdf]]) CMR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The discussion of the preceding section contains … destructive</span>nuclear-weapon catastrophe<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Nonetheless there remains strong dissent to the danger, even the significance, of nuclear weapons, as exemplified by the recent work of John Mueller (2009).</span>

**Nasa has the tech now**
**Richards 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – architecture prof at University of vermont (Last date cited, “The End of the World and Architecture.” [[http://lifeboat.com/papers/the.end.of.the.world.and.architecture.pdf]]) CMR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>colonization<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of space </span>represents<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the most </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> inhabitants forcing them to go around. The amount of this force can be controlled and for reasonable colony sizes and rotation rates the force can be about 1g. For example, a colony with an 895-meter (a bit less than 1000 yards) radius rotating at one rpm (rotations per minute) provides 1g at the hull.</span>

====__1NC Large Asteroids Advantage__==== 
**Won’t cause extinction**
**Shapiro et al 2009 --** Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair (Irwin, “Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies.” National Academies of Sciences, report, <span style="color: black;">http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/images/stories/Prepublication_NEOInterimReport_for_0812.pdf</span>) CMR

__The uncertainties in the … **a species would endure**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**SQ tracking 93% of extinction level NEOs – newest evidence**
**The Register 9/30** (“NASA: 'Asteroid armageddon less likely than we feared'.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/09/30/neowise_asteroid_survey/]]</span>)***911/981=92.8% CMR**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First the good news: </span>__there are fewer …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by 65 million years ago to say goodbye to the dinosaurs.</span>**

Nothing special about existential risk
Epstein and Zhao 2009 **– *Laboratory of Computational Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, AND** Professorial Block, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong(Richard, Y., “The Threat That Dare Not Speak Its Name.” Perspectives in Biology and Medicine Volume 52, Number 1, Winter 2009, MUSE) CMR

__Human extinction is …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but </span>__self-defeating.__

**Can’t deflect**
<span class="Underline">**Cambier and Mead 2007** – *</span>theoretical physicist and an internationally recognized expert in the design of innovative propulsion systems and computational physics, AND**<span style="color: black;">Senior Aerospace Engineer, and leading rocket scientist in laser and advanced propulsion at the Air Force Research</span> <span class="Underline">(Jean Luc, Frank, “On NEO Threat Mitigation.” Air Force Research Laboratory (AFMC)), </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA474424&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span>)**

**<span class="Underline">It is sobering to realize that </span>we have <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such weapons could not be tested on Earth, even under-ground, and in-space testing would require a revision of international treaties. </span>**

Extinction inevitable – sun will die 
**<span class="Underline">Baum 2010 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University (Seth D., “Is Humanity Doomed? Insights from Astrobiology .” Sustainability 2010, 2, 591-603; doi:10.3390/su2020591, </span>__<span style="color: black;">http://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/2/2/591/pdf</span>____<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) CMR </span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The next scenario is the </span><span class="Underline">end of the world.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline">Human civilization certainly could not be sustained</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Can’t track them 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Easterbrook ‘8</span> (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids) CMR**

**__Current telescopes cannot track asteroids__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … to broadcast its data live over the Web, allowing countless professional and amateur astronomers to look for undiscovered asteroids.</span>**

Can’t stop comets – means you don’t resolve the existential risk associated with the aff**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Easterbrook ‘8</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But </span>__when it comes to killer comets, you’ll__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> just </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">proves useful against comets.</span>



=====__2NC EXT AT: Aff Impact Calc__===== 

**<span style="color: black;">Policy paralysis </span>**
**MESKILL 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Tom </span>__Friedman's piece__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> today in the Times on the … </span>__have exhibited precisely this combination of traits: the looming apocalypse, with the time (just barely) to take action__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Timeframe is the timebreaker </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BOSTROM 11</span>(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), [[@http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]])

Finally, when considering existential-risk probabilities…<span class="UnderlineChar"> unconditional </span>probability of our being eradicated by nanotech<span class="UnderlineChar"> war </span>must be no greater than 20%, since we can only be eradicated once<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**Probability good**
**RESCHER 2003**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Nicholas, Prof of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh, Sensible Decisions: Issues of Rational Decision in Personal Choice and Public Policy, p. 49-50)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On this issue </span>__there is a systemic disagreement … seen as something that presents a realistic prospect__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Asteroids = not probable**
**Rozeff, 7**[Michael, retired Professor of Finance living in East Amherst, New York. February 21, 2007, “ Asteroid Risk Mitigation, Anyone?,” [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rozeff/rozeff139.html]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>__space fliers__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and explorers of the ASE … stated odds do not take human action into account. </span>

**They’re so unprobable you should ignore them**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IAA 2009</span> (International Academy of Astronautics, Dealing with the THREAT TO EARTH From ASTEROIDS and COMETS, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As discussed earlier, </span>few NEAs >2 km remain <span class="underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus prove serendipitously useful as humankind faces an uncertain future.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]