[[toc]]
===Citations=== 
Need anything? Contact Chris @ [[mailto:chrishalls@gmail.com|chrishalls@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 

==Golden Desert== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">The masculine discourse strives to uphold binaries, holding itself as what we value, including things like morality, rationality, and life, and rejecting immorality, irrationality, and death. This represses feminine discourse and represents it as the irrational other. </span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;"> Dr. Mary **Klages** October 23, 20**01** (Associate Professor of English, University of Colorado at Boulder, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.webpages.uidaho.edu/%7Esflores/KlagesCixous.html|http://www.webpages.uidaho.edu/~sflores/KlagesCixous.html]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">"The Laugh of the Medusa" Helene Cixous)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">While Anglo-American feminist literary critics in the early 1980s were focusing on creating analyses and critiques of fictional representations of women in men's and women's writings, these poststructuralist feminist theorists were studying how gender was created and/or destabilized within the structure of language itself, following Lacan; they examined how subject positions were gendered as "Man" or "Woman," masculine or feminine, rather than looking at individual gendered beings and how they were portrayed in literature. Jardine introduces a new concept, which she calls "gynesis," and which she describes as the process of putting woman into discourse. She's again following Lacan here: "woman," as a subject position within the Symbolic, is defined by/as other, as lack, as absence; how then could such a position speak, and what would it say if it could? Jardine posits a "gynema" as a place where fixed meaning starts to break down, become destabilized-- a place in a text where a "rupture" occurs, and where this woman/feminine/otherness disrupts the coherence, the seamlessness, the stability, of the masculine structured text. It's in this sense that Jardine argues that poststructuralist feminist theory isn't about women at all; rather, it's about "woman" and "man" as subject positions within the structure of language. Feminist theory in France in the early 80s, she points out, isn't interested in women writers or women theorists, but in positing "woman" as a binary opposition to "man," and examining/deconstructing the other binaries that reinforce and uphold that opposition: man/woman, masculine/feminine, presence/absence, rational/irrational, moral/immoral, light/dark, life/death, good/evil, etc. All the things on the right side of the slashes are things that Western culture works to control, to suppress, or to exclude, positing them as disruptive or destructive of the concepts on the left side of the slash. Hence "woman" and the "feminine" are constituted as otherness, as non-being, as alterity, as something outside of consciousness and rationality, and dangerous to those categories. Jardine then turns to Lacan, and discusses Lacan's idea that woman is "not All"--that the position of "woman" in the Symbolic is founded on Lack or Absence, so that "woman" can't (mis)identify with the Phallus as the center of the Symbolic. "Woman" is a position on the edge of the Symbolic, not firmly governed by the center, and hence there's something in that position that "escapes discourse," is not fully controlled by the center and the system of language. This something that escapes or evades the structuring rules of the center and the system is what Lacan, and Jardine, call jouissance, which is the French word for orgasm. In this context, the word means a form of pleasure that is beyond language, beyond discourse, something that can't be expressed in words or in the structure of language. More specifically, this form of pleasure that escapes or exceeds the rules and structures held in place by the Phallus is a specifically feminine pleasure, a feminine jouissance, which is unrepresentable in language--which in fact works as a "gynema," something that disrupts language, interrupts representation, disturbs the linear flow of language and narrative. This jouissance can also be considered a type of deconstruction, as it shakes up the fixity and stability of language (where meaning is held in place by the Phallus) and puts signifiers into play, making them slippery and indeterminate. Jardine equates this feminine jouissance with the female body, which takes us back to where we left off with Sandra Gilbert: is women's writing, or women's language, somehow related to female bodies and female biology? The rest of Jardine's article looks at poststructuralist feminist theories which explore the connection between female bodies and the structure of language; this part will be more comprehensible once we've examined what Helene Cixous and Luce Irigaray have to say on this topic. Hélene Cixous takes up where Lacan left off, in noting that women and men enter into the Symbolic Order, into language as structure, in different ways, or through different doors, and that the subject positions open to either sex within the Symbolic are also different. She understands that Lacan's naming the center of the Symbolic as the Phallus highlights what a patriarchal system language is--or, more specifically, what a phallo(go)centric system it is. This idea, that the structure of language is centered by the Phallus, produced the word "phallocentric." Derrida's idea that the structure of language relies on spoken words being privileged over written words, produced the word "logocentric" to describe Western culture in general. Cixous and Irigaray combine the two ideas to describe Western cultural systems and structures as "phallogocentric," based on the primacy of certain terms in an array of binary oppositions. Thus a phallogocentric culture is one which is structured by binary oppositions-- male/female, order/chaos, language/silence, presence/absence, speech/writing, light/dark, good/evil, etc.--and in which the first term is valued over the second term; Cixous and Irigaray insist that all valued terms (male, order, language, presence, speech, etc). are aligned with each other, and that all of them together provide the basic structures of Western thought. Cixous follows Lacan's psychoanalytic paradigm, which argues that a child must separate from its mother's body (the Real) in order to enter into the Symbolic. Because of this, Cixous says, the female body in general becomes unrepresentable in language; it's what can't be spoken or written in the phallogocentric Symbolic order. Cixous here makes a leap from the maternal body to the female body in general; she also leaps from that female body to female sexuality, saying that female sexuality, female sexual pleasure, femininejouissance, is unrepresentable within the phallogocentric Symbolic order.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">At the beginning of Joss Whedon’s cult classic space western firefly, the character River Tam is understood through masculine discourse</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">, through the patriarch Mal’s gaze, her value is not immediately recognized or understood, and he represents her as a child and sex slave, an experiment of the patriarchal fascist government. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">Buckman, 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;"> Allison R (From the essay Much Madness is Divinest Sense, Book-Investigating Firefly and Serenity: Science Fiction on the Fronteir)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">River Tam is simultaneously portrayed in ‘Safe’ as a damsel in distress to be rescued by Daddy2, and as threatening witch3 who must be destroyed. The polysemic nature of Joss Whedon’s texts allows both superficially simple and complex constructions to co-exist, the latter often interrogating the former4. So it is with both Malcolm Reynolds and River Tam, seemingly traditional characters—the cowboy hero and the hysterical girl, through whom the mythologies associated with these stock characters are challenged via language, cinematography, and story. Through his reconfigurations of conventions, Whedon deconstructs masculine discourse, including the male gaze of cinema, and constructs an exemplar of feminine subjectivity. The leader of a group of societal misfits, Captain Malcolm Reynolds determines who will be on his crew, where they will seek their ‘jobs’, and how the ship will be run. From the very first scene of ‘Serenity’ (1.1), we viewers are focused on his actions ,his command of situations and his gaze through framing, screen time, close-ups, and point-of-views shots. We are dropped into the middle of the action at the Battle of Serenity Valley; these cinematographic techniques encourage us almost immediately (thirty-two seconds in) to focus on Mal as leader. The quick cuts of the camera and its unsteadiness also ready us to identify with the Independent soldiers, aka Browncoats. The last shot of this scene focuses on Mal watching the enemy’s ships descend: shot full frontal and close up, his face is halfway in darkness; we cut to a shot from his perspective of Alliance ships descending, then back to the shot of Mal’s face. Dollying backward from the scene now playing in slow motion, music plays over the sound of the battle. We are distanced from the scene and Mal, preparing us for a cut to a scene six years later: Mal is now in a spacesuit, filmed upside down. His world has been completely turned around—hence the visual metaphor—and we are positioned visually to identify with him. Even when not physically in a scene, Mal is often the subject of discussion. He is narratively and visually constructed as the isolated hero of a failed resistance movement, an outsider rebelling against hero of a failed resistance movement, an outsider rebelling against an authoritarian society—in other words, a Western hero5. In turn, the women of the show are sexualized through visual and verbal means and removed from the role of hero in accordance with both the tools of cinema and the heroic monomyth6; ‘warrior woman’7, a prostitute/Companion8, and a seeming hysteric9. We first meet the latter, River, when Mal hurries to investigate a large crate that a passenger, Dr. Simon Tam, has brought on board in ‘Serentiy’; in it, he finds River in suspended animation. Curled in a fetal position, which visually presents her as a child10, she is filmed from above in a high-angle full shot—a view matching Mal’s point of view. The use of a high angle visualizes River as a vulnerable object authorizing Mal’s reading of the situation. Mal immediately asserts her status as object; he assumes she has been purchased as a sex slave for Simon or another buyer. At this point, the male gaze—the ways in which the camera envisions the world from the viewpoint of the male hero—seems validated. Mal has been established as the hero, and River has been relegated to the role of object. Leaving the view paused upon this image by cutting to a commercial break11, upon return River bursts from the box in long shot to escape and/or hide; Simon attempts to calm her, asserting his role as substitute father. ‘What the hell is this?’ Mal asks, perplexed by the care Simon shows her, since it does not fit with his vision of the situation. ‘This is my sister,’ responds Simon, desexualizing the narrative verbally and through his position and body language on screen12. We soon learn that River has been the victim of a program of experimentation by the Alliance, the patriarchal and fascist government that won the war against the Browncoats. Over the course of the series, the audience and crew gradually find out more about the modifications made to her brain, her high IQ, and psychic abilities. Although viewers’ investigation of River as a mystery might suggest her objectification, as per Laura Mulvey’s essay on ‘Visual Pleasure,’13 the process by which we learn about River works against this objectification. Even as her brother/father, Simon, is befuddled by her mysterious behavior, attempting to diagnose and hoping to ‘fix’ her, the audience is enabled to deconstruct this vision of River and patriarchal discourse such as the gaze. In ‘The Train Job’ (1.2), for instance, Mal assures Simon he isn’t worried about Simon’s abilities to fend for himself; however, he asks, ‘How’s your sister?’ Simon begins: ‘One moment she seems perfectly cogent, the next… she speaks nonsense. It’s like a child… so difficult to diagnose.’ River is again presented as an hysterical child. </span>








**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">To speak of women in a masculine sense, like Mal does of River, is to reestablish the repression and censorship of the feminine discourse, a reestablishment of the system which aims to destroy, define and exclude all that is feminine. It reaffirms through discourse the feminine as a lack, when in reality discursivity cannot conceive or understand the true value of feminine discourse.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">Luce **Irigaray** 19**77** (This Sex Which is Not One, Chapter 4 “The power of discourse and subordination of the feminine”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">Does this retraversal of discourse in order to rediscover a "Feminine" place suppose a certain work on/of language? It is surely not a matter of interpreting the operation of discourse while remaining within the same type of utterance as the one that guarantees discursive coherence. This is moreover the danger of every statement, every discussion, about Speculum. And, more generally speaking, of every discussion about the question of woman. For to speak of or about woman may always boil down to, or be understood as, a recuperation of the feminine within a logic that maintains it in repression, censorship, nonrecognition. In other words, the issue is not one of elaborating a new theory ofwhich woman would be the subject or the object, but of jamming the theoretical machinery itself, of suspending its pretension to the production of a truth and of a meaning that are excessively univocal. Which presupposes that women do not aspire simply to be men's equals in knowledge. That they do not claim to be rivaling men in constructing a logic of the feminine that would still take onto-theo-Iogic as its model, but that they are rather attempting to wrest this question away from the ecomony ofthe logos. They should not put it, then, in the form "What is woman?" but rather, repeating interpreting the way in which, within discourse, the feminine finds itself defined as lack, deficiency, or as imitation and negative image of the subject, they should signify that with respect to this logic a disruptive excess is possible on the feminine side. An excess that exceeds common sense only on condition that the feminine not renounce its "style." Which, ofcourse, is not a style at all, according to the traditional way of looking at things. The Power oj Discourse This "style," or "writing," ofwomen tends to put the torch to fetish words, proper terms, well-constructed forms. This "style" does not privilege sight; instead, it takes each figure back to its source, which is among other things tactile. It comes back in touch with itselfin that origin without ever constituting in it, constituting itself in it, as some sort of unity. Simultaneity is its "proper" aspect-a proper(ty) that is never fixed in the possible identity-to-self of some form or other. It is always fluid, without neglecting the characteristics of fluids that are difficult to idealize: those rubbings between two infinitely near neighbors that create a dynamics. Its "style" resists and explodes every firmly established form, figure, idea or concept. Which does not mean that it lacks style, as we might be led to believe by a discursivity that cannot conceive of it. But its "style" cannot be upheld as a thesis, cannot be the object of a position. And even the motifs of "self-touching," of "proximity," isolated as such or reduced to utterances, could effectively pass for an attempt to appropriate the feminine to discourse. We would still have to ascertain whether "touching oneself," that (self) touching, the desire for the proximate rather than for (the) proper(ty), and so on, might not imply a mode of exchange irreducible to any centering, any centrism, given the way the "self-touching" of female "self-affection" comes into playas a</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">rebounding from one to the other without any possibility of interruption, and given that, in this interplay, proximity confounds any adequation, any appropriation. But of course if these were only "motifs" without any work on and/or with language, the discursive economy could remain intact. How, then, are we to try to redefine this language work that would leave space for the feminine? Let us say that every dichotomizing-and at the same time redoubling-break, including the one between enunciation and utterance, has to be disrupted. Nothing is ever to be posited that is not also reversedand caught up again in the supplementarity of this reversal. To put it another way: there would no longer be either a right side or a wrong side ofdiscourse, or even of texts, but each passing from one to the other would make audible and comprehensible even what resists the recto-verso structure that shores up common sense. If this is to be practiced for every meaning posited-for every word, utterance, sentence, but also of course for every phoneme, every letter-we need to proceed in such a way that linear reading is no longer possible: that is, the retroactive impact of the end of each word, utterance, or sentence upon its beginning must be taken into consideration in order to undo the power of its teleological effect, including its deferred action. That would hold good also for the opposition between structures of horizontality and verticality that are at work in language. What allows us to proceed in this way is that we interpret, at each "moment," the specular make-up of discourse, that is, the self-reflecting (stratifiable) organization of the subject in that discourse. An organization that maintains, among other things, the break between what is perceptible and what is intelligible, and thus rnaintains the submission, subordination, and exploitation of the "feminine." This language work would thus attempt to thwart any manipulation of discourse that would also leave discourse intact. Not, necessarily, in the utterance, but in its autol()gical presuppositions. Its function would thus be to cast phallocentrism, phallocratism, loose from its moorings in order to return the masculine to its own language, leaving open the possibility of a different language. Which means that the masculine would no longer be "everything." That it could no longer, all by itself, define, circumvene, circumscribe, the properties of any thing and everything. That the right to define every value-including the abusive privilege of appropriation-would no longer belong to it.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">The feminine is indefinitely other in herself, “she” is doubtless, whimisical, incomprehensible, agitated and her language moves in all directions. There appears to be no coherence of any meaning. She contradicts, and confuses. Feminine language uses a multiplicity of levels and meaning to mirror and subvert the masculine discourse, subverting its calculations.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">Luce I**rigaray** 19**77** (This Sex Which is Not One, Chapter 2 “This Sex Which Is Not One”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">“She" is indefinitely other in herself This is doubtless why she is said to be whimsical, incomprehensible, agitated, capricious .. . not to mention her language, in which "she" sets off in all directions leaving "him" unable to discern the coherence of any meaning. Hers are contradictory words, somewhat mad from the standpoint of reason, inaudible for whoever listens to them with ready-made grids, with a fully elaborated code in hand. For in what she says, too, at least when she dares, woman is constantly touching herself. She steps ever so slightly aside from herself with a murmur, an exclamation, a whisper, a sentence left unfinished . . . When she returns, it is to set off again from elsewhere. From another point of pleasure, or of pain. One would have to listen with another ear. as if hearing an “other meaning” always in the prcess of weaving itself, of embracing ~ in order not to become fixed, congealed in them. For if "she" says something, it is not, it is already no longer, identical with what she means. What she says is never identical with anything, moreover; rather, it is contiguous. It touches (upon). And when it strays too far from that proximity, she breaks off and starts over at "zero": her body-sex. It is useless, then, to trap women in the exact definition of what they mean, to make them repeat (themselves) so that it will be clear; they are already elsewhere in that discursive machinery where you expected to surprise them. They have returned within themselves. Which must not be understood in the same way as within yourself. They do not have the interiority that you have, the one you perhaps suppose they have. Within themselves means within the intimacy of that silent, multiple, diffuse touch. And if you ask them insistently what they are thinking about, they can only reply: Nothing. Everything. Thus what they desire is precisely nothing, and at the same time everything. Always something more and something else besides that one—sexual organ, for example—that you give them, attribute to them. Their desire is often interpreted, and feared, as a sort of insatiable hunger, a voracity that will swallow you whole. Whereas it really involves a different economy 28 29 more than anything else, one that upsets the linearity of a project, undermines the goal-object of a desire, diffuses the polarization toward a single pleasure, disconcerts fidelity to a single discourse ... Must this multiplicity of female desire and female language be understood as shards, scattered remnants of a violated sexuality? A sexuality denied? The question has no simple answer. The rejection, the exclusion of a female imaginary certainly puts woman in the position of experiencing herself only fragmentarily, in the little-structured margins of a dominant ideology, as waste, or excess, what is left of a mirror invested by the (masculine) "subject" to reflect himself, to copy himself Moreover, the role of "femininity" is prescribed by this masculine specula{riza)tion and corresponds scarcely at all to woman's desire, which may be recovered only in secret, in hiding, with anxiety and guilt. But if the female imaginary were to deploy itself, if it could bring itself into play otherwise than as scraps, uncollected debri. s, would it represent itself, even so, in the form of one universe? Would it even be volume instead of surface? No. Not unless it were understood, yet again as a privileging of the maternal over the feminine. Of a phallic maternal, at that. Closed in upon the jealous possession of its valued product. Rivaling man in his esteem for productive excess. In such a race for power, woman loses the uniqueness of her pleasure. By dosing herself off as volume, she renounces the pleasure that she gets from the nonsuture of her lips: she is undoubtedly a mother, but a virgin mother; the role was assigned to her by mythologies long ago. Granting her a certain social power to the extent that she is reduced, with her own complicity, to sexual impotence. (Re-)discovering herself, for a woman, thus could only signify the possibility of sacrificing no one of her pleasures to other, of identifying herself with none of them in particular, of never being simply one. A sort of expanding universe to which no limits could be fixed and which would not be incoherence nonetheless-nor that polymorphous perversion of the child in which the erogenous zones would lie waiting to be regrouped under the primacy of the phallus. Woman always remains several, but she is kept from dispersion because the other is already within her and is autoerotically familiar to her. Which 'is not to say that she appropriates the other for herself, that she reduces it to her own property. Ownership and property are doubtless quite foreign to the feminine. At least sexually. But not nearness. Nearness so pronounced that it makes all discrimination ofidentity, and thus all forms of property, impossible. Woman derives pleasure from what is so near that she cannot have it, nor have herself She herself enters into a ceaseless exchange of herself with the other without any possibility of identifying either. This puts into question all prevailing economies: their calculations are irremediably stymied by woman's pleasure, as it increases indefinitely from its passage in and through the other.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">River Tam utilizes this non-linear feminine discourse to then destroy the phallogocentric masculine order, and the patriarchal representation of herself as a sex slave-child by subverting that logic and using her own subjectivity. She embodies feminine discourse to allow the the oppression of the feminine to fall away. She creates a resistance to western systems of discourse and thought. To speak of River Tam is to communicate the unspeakable of the masculine system. Those who utilize this help break down the binary opposition and fixed meanings of masculine discourse, through multiplicity and the fluidity of women’s language.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">Buckman, 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;"> Allison R (From the essay Much Madness is Divinest Sense, Book-Investigating Firefly and Serenity: Science Fiction on the Fronteir)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">However, although Mal only hears Simon’s response, viewers are granted knowledge the captain and doctor do not possess, and this knowledge questions their readings off River. The camera pans out of the infirmary and moves down a corridor as River and Simon each speak in voiceover: River: Two by two. Simon: I still don’t know what the government was trying to do with her… River: Hands of blue. Simon: So I have no idea if they succeeded. River’s voice overlaps Simon’s speech: Two by two. (The camera tracks in towards River in an upright fetal position in the corner of her room, muttering, ‘hands of blue…) Simon is the author of River’s narrative at this point, constructing her as pre-symbolic (and thus lacking the subjectivity gained through language) and as a victim to be cured; the visuals seem to support this view. However, Whedon (director and co-writer of this episode) cuts from River to an Alliance cruiser and two unknown men for the last scene. They ‘are looking for a girl—this girl.’ Whedon cuts to a shot of the blue hands of both men, one of whom is holding River’s picture, thus substantiating River’s discourse not as lunacy but as an articulation of danger; it also gives the viewer more information than either Simon or Mal, who are shown to be lacking in their understanding of River and her subjectivity. An additional example of this gradual re-visioning of the traditional patriarchal narrative comes from ‘Bushwhacked’ (1.3). River intuits that the crew of the spaceship they encounter has been slaughtered before Serenity even docks with the ship. Simon does not understand her talk of ghosts and screaming, although the narrative is structured so that viewers later understand River’s prescience. Viewers again are enabled to put the pieces together more quickly than the crew due to the structure of narrative and cinematography. We also see the failure of Mal’s vision in ‘Safe,’ when he orders Simon to take a walk with his sister: ‘Don’t worry. We won’t leave without you.’ When Shepherd Book is critically wounded and Simon and River are kidnapped, the crew must leave without them, though they later return. As in these examples, our understanding of River gradually increases, as does that of the crew. However, the audience continues to be placed in a position of greater knowledge, enabling us to identify with River and more quickly understand her gifts. Although Simon labels River a paranoid schizophrenic in ‘Safe,’ viewers are enabled to realize River’s subjectivity goes beyond this label as well as Simon’s understanding, thus undercutting Simon’s authority just as Mal’s has been undercut: neither the man of science nor the man of action is able to understand River fully. While we may initially believe Simon’s diagnoses of his sister, when we look again we see that what seemed to be nonsense in River’s discourse made perfect sense (see notes 1 and 2). In ‘Ariel’ (1.9), for instance, the crew reads River’s slashing of Jayne with a knife as a mark of her violent instability. Mal asks if River is ‘getting worse,’ and Simon nods. By the end of the episode, however, she is justified in her attack on Jayne by his betrayal. Her attack is not only a symbolic erasure of those who threaten her (Jayne is wearing his Alliance-associated ‘Blue Sun’ t-shirt14),but is also an indication of her non-linear understanding of reality. In addition to being tuned in to Jayne’s betrayal, she forecasts several events, including the presence of the men with blue hands. These elements enable the deconstruction of the male gaze and its authority as well as strengthening River as subject. While the possibility exists for a simple, traditional, sexist representation of River as disabled madwoman (see note 9), instead, she is represented as a Cassandra figure with knowledge that is unacknowledged: the audience and then the crew gradually come to realize that River is not insane but gifted15. Simon begins to acknowledge this in ‘Safe,’ when River is able to tell the story of a girl made mute through trauma. When asked how River could know Ruby’s story, Simon attempts to explain: ‘Um, uh, my sister… She’s very good at…’ While he seems to have some inkling of her abilities, Simon is unable to put his sister’s skills into words; they still seem to be beyond his understandings, or at least his articulation. It is understandable that Simon would have difficulty expressing River’s talents, since, through her representation, she enacts resistance to the Western system of language and logic; this system is anchored in patriarchy and may be referred to as masculine discourse 16. To speak of River is to communicate the unspeakable within a patriarchal culture; rather than taking up a masculine position—the only position for a woman to inhabit if she is to speak within a system that denies her subjectivity17—River takes up the feminine position and thus refuses the former. As a result, she is an exemplar of l’écriture feminine, or feminine discourse18. This mode of communication and the pleasure (jouissance) enabled by it is unrepresentable in (masculine) language since it disrupts language and representation. Binary oppositions, fixed meaning, and the ‘linear flow of language and narrative’ (Klages) are broken down through the multiplicity and fluidity of women’s language: the woman who utilizes this means towards subjectivity does not make (phallogocentric) sense. The bodies of hysterical women, Cixous argues, write l’écriture feminine, enacting what the conscious mind cannot express. So, too, for River: Simon tells Inara that River still can’t tell him what they did to her. However, River has nightmares, enactments of the unspeakable by her unconscious mind. Meaning also seeps out through her seemingly incomprehensible language and action. Her desire, like that of the women of l’écriture feminine, is ‘often interpreted, and feared, as a sort of insatiable hunger, a voracity that will swallow you whole’ (Irigaray 30). Irigaray argues this woman is indefinitely other in herself. This is doubtless why she is said to be whimsical, incomprehensible, agitated, capricious…not to mention her language, in which she sets off in all directions leaving ‘him’ unable to discern the coherence of any meaning. Hers are contradictory words, somewhat mad from the standpoint of reason, inaudible for whoever listens to them with ready-made grids, with a fully elaborated code in hand. (28-9) She does not speak in linear fashion; she collapses the boundaries of speech and text, order and chaos, sense and nonsense (Klages). This woman is River19. Through this construction of River and Simon’s construction as a son of privilege and man of science, Whedon also criticizes the patriarchal Alliance. When her brother steps into the role of doctor, a role that emphasizes rational, linear discourse, River is afraid of his actions, and, as I have shown, he often dismisses her non-linear, intuitive perception of the world around her. Due to his background, including his former Alliance affiliation, Simon represents the patriarchal system that experimented upon her. Within this system, River is an object, a guinea pig, a weapon to be wielded. However, she undercuts the authorship of her being by the male hero (Mal), her brother, and that of the mercenary Jayne, seeing through the latter’s lies and betrayal. She even ‘edits’ Shepherd Book’s Bible, taking out what doesn’t make literal sense to her (‘Jaynestown,’ 1.7) Ironically, River is like the Bible—she ‘doesn’t make sense,’ and her brother attempts to fix her as she attempts to fix the Bible. As Book says about the Bible, the crew of Serenity must come to have faith in River, which they do by the end of ‘Objects in Space’ (1.14). Whedon provides another blow to masculine discourse through his resistance to sexualizing River. Since River is seventeen, she is able to function both as girl and woman. She is not inscribed as romantic object for any of the characters. Juabal Early’s suggestion to Simon (‘Objects in Space’) that River is secretly sleeping with one of the crewmembers seems absurd. River is not sexualized by the camera nor the narrative as are Kaylee and Inara20. Her visual construction is waifish; she primarily wars oversized skirts, long sweaters, and dresses. She often goes barefoot, maintaining her tactile contact with the ship. Significantly, at least to the discussion of narrative and cinematographic discourse, River’s point of view is privileged in one of the most touching—and revealing—episodes: ‘Objects in Space,’ the last of the series. Here is a reversal of the first episode, in which Mal’s point of view was established; however, River’s point of view is not undercut. In this episode, our sympathies are aligned with River. As discussed, throughout the series viewers are allowed to know more about her than the others characters do; while we are a step ahead of the other characters, we are a step behind River. This episode does not change the pattern—whether or not viewers temporarily believe River has become one with the ship21. At the beginning of the episode, River wanders the corridors of Serenity, hearing the unspoken reality behind the pleasant banter of the crew. As they speak, the camera depicts them from River’s perspective: they seem to turn toward her and speak their inner thoughts, granting viewers a visualization of River’s ability to read thoughts and establishing identification with her through subjective camera. Although they do not consciously voice their dis-ease with her, she is able to read it in their minds. She hears her brother bemoaning his loss of Alliance security in his rescue of River; surprisingly, she also hears Book vehemently stating that he doesn’t ‘give half a hump’ if she’s ‘innocent or not’ while Jayne proclaims he betrayed the Tams to the Alliance out of greed. She comes down the stairs into a cargo bay covered in autumn leaves and picks a stick up from the ground. ‘It’s just an object,’ she states, ‘it doesn’t mean what you think.’ The stick, we find, is actually a loaded gun with the safety off, and it is pointed in the direction of crewmembers. We again are given River’s perspective; we initially see the gun as she does. Like the gun, river doesn’t ‘mean anything.’ Her essence isn’t predetermined: she doesn’t have to be the paranoid schizophrenic her brother has labeled her—or the victim, the aggressor, or…. It is this indeterminacy that allows the temporary possibility that she has indeed melted into the ship, become Serenity. Of course, she’s actually buying time for the crew to work against bounty hunter Jubal Early. But she is able to read his secrets, and the cinematography again supports her point of view: we get quick cuts from the ‘reality’ of Early to River’s visualization of his mind. River contests the narrative of both crew and Early, rewriting herself into action, plotting a scenario for escape of both crew and herself, and speaking truth to Early’s proclamation of allegiance to a code he actually does not keep. River cannot be encapsulated by traditional employments of women as lunatics or witches. She is far too complicated, and her excesses enable the transgression of these limits. While the community in ‘Safe’ sees her as witch, the community of Serenity eventually moves beyond its fear and misunderstanding and is rewarded. While Mal’s crew struggles to understand her, the indeterminacy allowed by character, story, and cinematography eventually allows them to re-evaluate their judgment and understand she is unknowable, unthinkable, unimaginable. For instance, while Jayne cannot understand her indeterminacy when Mal states that River ‘knows things she shouldn’t’. Things she couldn’t,’ (‘Objectus in Space’) and thus asks, ‘What, are you—are you sayin’ she’s a witch?’ the others are able to go beyond defining her simplistically as madwoman or witch. At the end of ‘Objects in Space,’ Wash and Zoe have a conversation about River in which they seem to have accepted her indeterminacy, although that means giving up some of their own power in the form of control: Wash: Little River just gets more colorful by the moment. What’ll she do next? Zoe: Either blow us all up or rub soup in our hair. It’s a toss-up. Wash: I hope she does the soup thing. It’s always a hoot, and we don’t all die from it. River challenges not only the male gaze and the heroic monomyth through her embodiment of l’écriture feminine, but also those who represent a ‘logical’ extension to the violence of patriarchal society (represented by the Alliance, the Patron, Jayne, Niska, Jubal Early, and the Reavers—see note 21). As in Joss Whedon’s other series, what truly distinguishes River is the force of community. Through community, her physical ability and estrangement from others is developed into a force that illustrates the shortcomings of masculine discourse and de-centers it, opening up spaces for revision. Unlike River, the outcast Reavers remain victims, through vicious. River will sacrifice her safety and happiness for that of the crew if necessary, becoming, for instance, River the Reaver Slayer in Serenity. She makes her decisions from a communal perspective rather than an isolated one and uses violence only to protect the crew and herself. Whedon’s titular character Buffy is also part of a movement in which women are increasingly represented as (s)heroes rather than damsels in distress, but River takes the deconstruction of traditional ideology even further. She is not simply an alternative universe reconstruction of Buffy; she is far more of an outsider than even Buffy—in whom her circle of friends quickly place their trust. She stands further outside the system of masculine discourse than Buffy and is more easily perceived as damaged, as hysterical, as dangerous to the community. Like Buffy, however, she is able to question both simplistic binaries and traditional emplotments of women, as well as story, because of her liminal location and self-authorship.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">PAGE 45</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">To destroy the phallogocentric order and assert feminine discourse in way to mirror the masculine Chris and I must assume the feminine role deliberately, to take something of subordination and repression by the masculine discourse and turn it into the affirmation of the feminine discourse. So here’s the sentence that we’ll defend; Chris and I affirm River Tam as an exemplar of feminine discourse.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">Luce **Irigaray** 19**77** (This Sex Which is Not One, Chapter 4 “The power of discourse and subordination of the feminine”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">Now, this domination of the philosophic logos stems in large part from its power to reduce all others to the economy of the Same. The teleologically constructive project it takes on is always also a project of diversion, deflection, reduction of the other in the Same. And, in its greatest generality perhaps, from its power to eradicate the diffirence between the sexes in systems that are self representative of a "masculine subject." Whence the necessity of "reopening" the figures of philosophical discourse-idea, substance, subject, transcendental subjectivity, absolute knowledge-in order to pry out of them what they have borrowed that is feminine, from the feminine, to make them "render up" and give back what they owe the feminine. This may be done in various ways, along various "paths"; moreover, at minimum several of these must be pursued. One way is to interrogate the conditions under which systematicity itself is possible: what the coherence of the discursive utterance conceals of the conditions under which it is produced, whatever it may say about these conditions in discourse. For example the "matter" from which the speaking subject draws nourishment in order to produce itself, to reproduce itself; the scenography that makes representation feasible, representation as defined in philosophy, that is, the architectonics of its theatre, its framing in space-time, its geometric organization, its props, its actors, their respective positions, their dialogues, indeed their tragic relations, without overlooking the mirror, most often hidden, that allows the logos, the subject, to reduplicate itself, to reflect itself by itself. All these are interventions on the scene; they ensure its coherence so long as they remain uninterpreted. Thus they have to be reenacted, in each figure of discourse, in order to shake discourse away from its mooring in the value of "presence." For each philosopher, beginning with those whose names define some age in the history of philosophy, we have to point out how the break with material contiguity is made, how the system is put together, how the specular economy works. This process of interpretive rereading has always been a psychoanalytic undertaking as well. That is why we need to pay attention to the way the unconscious works in each philosophy, and perhaps in philosophy in general. We need to listen (psycho ) analytically to its procedures of repression, to the structuration of language that shores up its representations, separating the true from the false, the meaningful from the meaningless, and so forth. This does not mean that we have to give ourselves over to some kind of symbolic, point-by-point interpretation of philosophers' utterances. Moreover, even if we were to do so, we would still be leaving the mystery of "the origin" intact. What is called for instead is an examination of the operation of the ''grammar'' of each figure of discourse, its syntactic laws or requirements, its imaginary configurations, its metaphoric networks, and also, of course, what it does not articulate at the level of utterance: its silences. But as we have already seen, even with the help oflinguistics, psychoanalysis cannot solve the problem of the articulation of the female sex in discourse. Even though Freud's theory, through an effect of dress-rehearsal-at least as far as the relation between the sexes is concerned-shows clearly the function ofthe feminine in that scene. What remains to be done, then, is to work at "destroying" the discursive mechanism. Which is not a simple undertaking ... For how can we introduce ourselves into such a tightly-woven systematicity? There is, in an initial phase, perhaps only one "path," the one historically assigned to the feminine: that of mimicry. One must assume the feminine role deliberately. Which means already to convert a form of subordination into an affirmation, and thus to begin to thwart it. Whereas a direct feminine challenge to this condition means demanding to speak as a (masculine) "subject," that is, it means to postulate a relation to the intelligible that would maintain sexual indifference. To play with mimesis is thus, for a woman, to try to recover the place of her exploitation by discourse, without allowing herself to be simply reduced to it. It means to resubmit herself in as much as she is on the side of the "perceptible," of "matter"-to "ideas," in particular to ideas about herself, that are elaborated in/by a masculine logic, but so as to make "visible," by an effect of playful repetition, what was supposed to remain invisible: the cover-up of a possible operation of the feminine in language. It also means "to unveil" the fact that, if women are such good mimics, it is because they are not simply resorbed in this function. They also remain elsewhere: another case of the persistence of "matter," but also of "sexual pleasure. "</span>



<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND We should be able to talk about things that we believe are important and so; the role of the ballot should be to vote for whoever exposes oppression best.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">The use of feminist science fiction catalyzes a breakdown of masculine discourse, it destabilizes a linear structure that reinforces the suppression of the feminine. Chris and I do this speaking about Firefly and affirming River Tam and her breakdown of masculine discourse.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">Wolmark 94</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">(Jenny, has a MA at Leeds University and is an Editor of the Journal of Gender Studies, “Aliens and Others: Science Fiction, Feminism, and Postmodernism” Pg. 21-25 **Note: SF = Science Fiction [CR])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 16px;">The intersection of feminism and science fiction has produced a similar emphasis on provisionality, in that it has resulted in the production of texts who recognizable generic boundaries and continuities are consistently undermined by their subject matter, as Anne Cranny-Francis has indicated in her study of what she calls ‘feminist genre fiction’: Feminist theory and the experiential knowledge of women went into the making of feminist SF and the result was the remaking of a literary genre, a fundamental investigation of the conventions of that genre, both for their literary or narrative implications and for their embedded ideological significances(s). The ‘investigation of the genre has been informed by more than feminist theory and experiential knowledge, however, as has already been suggested: the intersections between science fiction and postmodernism, as well as those between feminism and postmodernism, and feminism and science fiction, have contributed to the complex accounts of gender and identity offered in feminist SF. The fragmented and decentered narrative of Joanna Russ’s The Female Man (1975; 1985) is a notable example of a text that explores the pleasures of dissonance and incongruity that occur when gender and genre are in conflict. Russ dispenses the necessity for either a single plot or a specific time sequence by means of a narrative that shifts continuously between parallel universes, and between the four different female characters who inhabit them. Joanna, Janet, Jael, and Jeannine are all aspects of ‘Everywoman’ but they are also stubbornly themselves: ‘I said goodbye and went off with Laur, I, Janet; I also watched them go, I, Joanna; moreover I went off to show Jael the city, I, Jeannine, I Jael, I myself. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye. Thus, they, and the narrative, remain fragmented, disrupting the familiar discursive practices of science fiction in a playful and witty way, and enabling Russ to explore the possibility suggested by Mary Gentile that women ‘must begin to see themselves as in a network of multiple possibilities, multiple perspectives, multiple identities, where there is no clear split between “I” and “not-I”, but rather a range or continuum of existence.’ The instability of the genre is emphasized by the way in which feminist science fiction, foregrounds female desire, and makes reference to other genres, particularly that of romance, in order to do so. Feminist SF challenges the way in which female desire is subordinated to the privileged position accorded to male desire within the genre, as Russ herself points out in a discussion of the work of one male SF writer, whose novel is ‘one long proof that, for women, heterosexuality is so much physically pleasanter than lesbianism that it binds a woman not only to sexual pleasure but to one man in particular and to a whole ideology of male dominance.’ In opposition to this subordination of female desire, the narrative strategies of feminist SF have developed to ‘provide women with possible scenarios for their own future development’, as Pamela Sargent put it in the introduction to her pioneering collection of science fiction stories by women, Women of Wonder. These strategies recognize what Joanna Russ calls ‘the whole difficulty of science fiction, of genuine speculation: how to get away from traditional assumptions which are nothing more than traditional strait-jackets.’ Feminist SF is concerned with the complexities and ambiguities of contemporary definitions and representations of gender, and this concern places it within the terrain marked out by the contradictory relations between science fiction, feminism, and postmodernism. Although it is rare for feminist science fiction narratives to engage in narrative experimentation of the kind that is familiar in postmodern texts, they are nevertheless fully implicated in the complicitous and contradictory processes of postmodernism described by Hutcheon. Feminist science fiction is situated within a popular cultural genre which itself has an uneasy relationship with postmodernism, but it uses the mechanisms of the genre against it, in order to question the way in which science fiction narratives represent the gendered self. It utilises the genre’s preoccupation with the future in order to suggest that the construction of subjectivity and identity is a process, and as such is always incomplete. As Stuart Hall says of cultural identity, it is ‘a matter of “becoming” as well as being. It belongs to the future as well as to the past.’ The notion of a unified, integrated self is made as problematic in feminist science fiction as it is in more explicitly postmodern texts. The territory of unresolved contradictions inhabited the postmodernism has been described in other terms by Samuel Delany, who uses the term ‘paraspace’, as distinct from ‘subspace’, to define the relations that exist between the narrative space of science fiction and that of ‘naturalistic’ fiction. A paraspace does not exist in a hierarchical relation – at least not in a simple and easy hierarchical relation – to the narrative’s ‘real’, or ordinary, space. What goes on in one subverts the other; what goes on in the other subverts the one. They change the weights all the time, throughout their stories. So calling it a subspace – with the prefix’s strong suggestion of subordination – is wrong. A paraaspace, or even an alternative space, with its much weaker – and more problematic – question of position and troubling supplementarity, is more to the point. The notion of paraspace also provides a useful way of thinking about the way in which feminist science fiction exists within a gendered space of ‘troubling supplementarity’. It is a space in which subjectivity and experience, gender and identity, can be re-imagined in opposition to, and in recognition of, the dominant gendered discourses. The ‘paraspace’ within which feminist SF exists corresponds to that ‘elsewhere’ described by Teresa de Lauretis, which consists in ‘spaces in the margins of hegemonic discourses, social spaces carved in the interstices of institutions and in the chinks and cracks of the power-knowledge apparati’. De Lauretis uses the notion of an ‘elsewhere’ in a specific context, that of the need to ‘theorize gender beyond the limits of “sexual difference”, and the constraints that such a notion has to come to impose on feminist critical thought.’ The emphasis on sexual difference, and its limitations, are present in Alice Jardine’s discussion of the construction of the feminine in Gynesis, in which she suggests that the rethinking provoked by the crisis of legitimacy in the grand narratives of western culture has opened up an ‘elsewhere’ or a space that is specifically coded as feminine, because it has involved, above all, a reincorporation and a reconceptualization of that which has been the master narrative’s own ‘nonknowledge’, what has eluded them, what has engulfed them. This other-than-themselves is almost always a ‘space’ of some kind (over which the narrative has lost control), and this space has been coded as feminine, as woman. Jardine argues that the feminine is both defined by and defines the marginal spaces which emerge as the binary divisions of western culture begin to collapse, and this marginalization enables it to subvert the dominant masculinist cultural order. However, the radical potential of the marginal is undermined here by the way in which the feminine is equated with ‘woman’, and because the differences between women cannot be recognized in this equation, the female subject becomes a unified rather than a contradictory, and therefore multiple, subject. The female subject is thus defined solely by its marginality, rather than by, and in, the contradictory discourses of the dominant culture. In contrast, de Lauretis argues that it is gender rather than the feminine, that is constructed in the social space that is ‘elsewhere’, and that the subject is therefore constituted in gender, to be sure, though not by sexual difference alone, but rather across languages and cultural representations; a subject en-gendered in the experiencing of race and class, as well as sexual, relations; a subject, therefore, not unified but rather multiple, and not so much divided as contradicted. The distinction discussed above, between the subject as gendered or as female, finds a parallel in the distinction that is made between ‘feminine’ writing and feminist writing, and all of these different positions become relevant when considering the nature of the cultural intervention that feminist SF is making. Although attempts to define feminine writing are problematic, its primary intention is to challenge and disrupt the dominant discourse by means of its experimental, fluid and non-linear qualities. In the work of Luce Irigaray and Helen Cixous in particular, the practice of feminine writing is defined by the female body: feminine writing becomes the embodiment of woman and of female sexuality. Feminine texts are defined as oppositional because of the way in which they rupture the semantic and syntactical structures of the dominant culture; similarly for Julia Kristeva, this means that women’s writing is identified with the ‘explosion of social codes: with revolutionary movements’, in other words, with the avant-garde. However, these arguments are forced to ignore the existence of texts that are resolutely realist and conformist, but which are equally oppositional because they contain an explicit critique of the unequal power relations experienced by women within the dominant culture. Feminist science fiction can clearly be situated here: like feminism itself, It exists in a contradictory relationship to the hegemonic discourses to which it is opposed but on which it draws, and this is the reason for its oppositional capacity to open up new spaces for alternative representations of gender that these spaces, conceived of in terms of an ‘elsewhere’ or a ‘paraspace’, cannot be coded as ‘feminine’ or as ‘woman’. The texts that operate within these spaces can, however, be considered as feminist, because they destabilize and rupture the dominant ideology of gender by confronting the contradictions of gender representation, rather than assuming the existence of a unitary subject that is ‘feminine’ or ‘masculine’. </span>



=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===Anthropocentrism=== 
=Previous Neg/2NR= 
====Golden Desert==== 
====Round 1 vs Damien Nanosats==== 
T-Increase
Anthropocentrism K
XO
Russia Aerospace (2NR)
Weaponization Bad
Heg Bad
No China War

====Round 4 vs West Exploration K Aff==== 
Nietzche Framework (2NR)
Anthropocentrism K (2NR)
Heidegger Case Turn
Author PIC

====Round 5 vs Gresham-Barlow==== 
Nietzche Framework
Anthopocentrism K
Author PIC (2NR)
Note: 2NR was mostly Severance Theory on K/CP Perms

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]