[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Plan

The US Department of Defense should pursue a defensive space control strategy that emphasizes satellite hardening, replacement, redundancy, stealth and situational awareness.

1AC - Advantage One – Crisis Miscalculation – 1AC

Space vulnerability and instability are increasing, raising the risk of conflict. Defensive space measure can increase deterrence while avoiding a destabilizing arms race.

MacDonald 09, former assistant director for national security at the White House [Bruce W., “Testimony of Bruce W. MacDonald”, Council of Foreign Affairs, Before the Strategic Forces Subcommittee and House Armed Services Committee, March 18, http://www.cfr.org/china/space-security/p18862, Accessed July 12 2011]

Our space assets are exposed and [...] as long as this is true.

Chinese tests have sparked a global arms race. Our satellites are vulnerable to other countries ASATs or cyber terrorists, which invites a preemptive strike

Denmark 2010 - Fellow with the Center for a New American Security [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]

In an environment where all the [...] kind of terrorism in zero gravity.


Space race inevitable - Chinese ASAT tests, weaponization and space debris all undermine crisis stability, threatening US forces

MacDonald 8—former assistant director for national security at the White House. [Bruce W. MacDonald, September 2008, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security”, Council on Foreign Relations, Council Special Report No. 38, http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707, accessed 7-12-11]

With China’s demonstration of an ASAT [...] China’s evolving and ambiguous space doctrine.


Chinese capabilities and intentions prove they pursue asymmetric warfare -– this is based on readings of Chinese doctrine and law. China exploits international law for their advantage.

Bellflower 2010, instructor at the Advanced Space Operations School [Air Force Judge Advocate General School. The Air Force Law Review. The influence of law on command of space name: major john w. Bellflower Lexis Accessed June 21, 2011]

The lack of transparency in China's [...] This strategy [*135] finds c

Space militarization undermines crisis stability – it invites preemption during a crisis because it undermines deterrence. An arms race is inherently unstable because it favors asymmetry

MacDonald 8—former assistant director for national security at the White House. [Bruce W. MacDonald, September 2008, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security”, Council on Foreign Relations, Council Special Report No. 38, http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707, accessed 7-12-11]


Attacking others’ satellites would invite retaliation [...] address defensive and offensive measures.15

The Impact is global nuclear war

Hoey, 2006 - a Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies (Matthew, The Space Review, “Military space systems: the road ahead,” 2/27, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1

Many people believe that a deployed [...] potential development could become a reality.

Miscalculation in Space Escalates to full scale war – there is no control of space war

Krepon, 2003 – president of the Henry Stimson Center (Michael, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)

The inherent escalatory potential of satellite [...] deterrence than in dominance and compellance.


Space Situational awareness is critical to preventing miscalculations – it identifies unintentional incidents like debris

Cartwright 2011 - vice Chair Joint Chiefs of Staff [General James, center for strategic and international studies (csis) the national security space strategy: implications for the department of defense FEBRUARY 16, 2011http://csis.org/files/attachments/110216_spacestrategy_transcript.pdf Accessed July 12]

GEN. CARTWRIGHT: The concept [...] have partners to start doing this,

Hardening, stealth and redundancy all reduce satellite vulnerability

Frey 2008, graduate of Squadron Officer School, [former defender of the Airforce in lawsuits as the chief of labor law and served as a chief of claims, legal assistance, and civil law at Patrick AFB, Florida, Defense of US Space Assets: A Legal Perspective. Air And Space Power Journal, Vol. 22, Iss. 4; pg. 75-86. Winter 2008, Proquest ]

Second, several possibilities for reducing [...] are suddenly unavailable to war fighters.

1AC - Advantage Two - Hegemony

Satellite vulnerability is the key weakness in our hegemony – our military depends on space assets

Walsh 2007 - Georgetown University Law Center [Frank M. Associate, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, LLP Journal of Air Law and Commerce “forging a diplomatic shield for american satellites: the case for reevaluating the 2006 national space policy in light of a chinese anti-satellite system” Fall, 7/12/11, Lexis]

Satellites serve as the foundation upon [...] bring down a seemingly unstoppable warrior.

Vulnerable space assets cause rising powers to challenge our hegemony.

Tellis 2007 - senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues. PhD from U of Chicago Ashley J. Tellis, August, 30 2007, published online on September, 1 2007, “China's Military Space Strategy”, Survivial, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf, accessed 7-14]

The strategic logic of Chinese counterspace [...] particularly through strategically encircling it.25


Protecting vulnerable space assets is key to hegemony – if our satellites are vulnerable, we will not be able to deploy forward power projection

Cynamon 9 Former Deputy Program Director, Space and Nuclear Network Group [Charles, "Defending America's Interest In Space" February 12 2009, Acsessed July 13, 2011 http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada539893.pdf] ]

Without a doubt the United States [...] with the overall strategic environment discussion.

Forward deployment is key to global hegemony and peace – crisis escalation, reassuring allies, deterrence and demonstrating resolve

Johnson, 2009, Chief of Naval Operations [Admiral Jay L., & General Charles C. Krulak, Commandant of the Marine Corps, August 17, “Forward presence essential to American interests” <http://www.navy.mil/navydata/navy_legacy_hr.asp?id=274> Web. Acc. 07/15/2011]

Some argue that the forward presence [...] conflict. This is forward presence.



Effective US Hegemony solves multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict between nationalist regional hegemons – a multipolar or offshore balancing role is a fantasy. Declining hegemony doesn’t prevent any of their turns – the US will be required to re-engage.

Robert Kagan, 2007 senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [“End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)

This is a good thing, [...] involvement will provide an easier path.

Specifically - China’s space build up is intended to challenge US deployment protecting Taiwan – Space assets are key to sea power. US vulnerability will cause China to miscalculate in the Strait

Dillon, 2008 – Naval Postgraduate School [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669 Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]

On January 11, 2007, [...] been iterated every successive year.9

This vulnerability will tempt China to attack

Dillon, 2008 – Naval Postgraduate School [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669 Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]

On January 11, 2007, [...] advantage of an ASAT weapon attack.


Taiwan conflict leads to nuclear Armageddon

Strait Times 2000 (June 25, “Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan”, Lexis)

THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high- [...] China puts sovereignty above everything else.


Reconstitution is critical to hegemony – crippled satellites undermine power projection – we are vulnerable now

Schendzielos 08 - major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff College [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011]

All aspects of American power are [...] American and possibly even world economy.

Protection of US space assets deters attacks because it mitigates asymmetrical vulnerability.

Lynn, 2011 – Deputy Secretary of State [William J. Lynn, III A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment The Washington Quarterly SUMMER http://www.twq.com/11summer/docs/11summer_Lynn.pdf]

Third, we need to make [...] our vital space capabilities from attack.

Space situational awareness is critical to defending Taiwan – it protects our space assets which counter a Chinese invasion

Ahearn 08 Reporter for Defense Daily [Dave, 5/30, Defense Daily, Doeing Bids for Space Situational Awareness Contract, Lexis Nexis, 7/13/11.]

SASSA and other threat detection and [...] Which is where SASSA would help.

Reconstitution solves – replacement is key to reducing instability during a crisis – they offset ASAT damage.

MacDonald 8—former assistant director for national security at the White House. [Bruce W. MacDonald, September 2008, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security”, Council on Foreign Relations, Council Special Report No. 38, http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707, accessed 7-12-11]

By maintaining a capacity to quickly [...] and ultra-long endurance UAVs.

[ ] Plan won’t be perceived as weaponization – hardening is seen as defensive, not offensive

Frey 2008, graduate of Squadron Officer School, [former defender of the Airforce in lawsuits as the chief of labor law and served as a chief of claims, legal assistance, and civil law at Patrick AFB, Florida, Defense of US Space Assets: A Legal Perspective. Air And Space Power Journal, Vol. 22, Iss. 4; pg. 75-86. Winter 2008, Proquest ]

Because of space law's uncertainty, [...] systems exclusively designed to protect satellites.




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]