[[toc]]

=Affirmative= 
==Anxiety 1AC - Valley== 

This year’s resolution asks for the exploration of space, the quintessential example of uncertainty and possibility in the world. Outer space reveals how we conceptualize space in this world, in relation to positioning and our interest in the very space we mentally construct. This is a co-constitutive relationship to create meaning in the world.
Horne ’1 (Michael Horne, North Pacific Institute for Analytical Psychology, “Opening Space in Space: Insights from Infant Observation”, in Cambridge 2001: proceedings of the Fifteenth International Congress for Analytical Psychology, p. 100-101)

Space is the mystery in which we exist but which also exists in us. We know that space has no physical properties and yet it is undeniably there. Since space itself has no substance, when we speak of it as an object we have to refer to it as a mental construct or model based on the three dimensions of up/down, right/left and forward/back. If you were to have an experience of space in itself, perhaps by being alone in outer space, using the dimensions to convey this would be useless. Rather, you would find yourself saying things like "I have no footing," or "I don't know where I am." You might say "I have no walls around me," or that "I have no container." Perhaps you would say, "I have no up or down," or "I have no right or left."
These phrases are typical everyday descriptions of our existence in space. They express the problem that, since we cannot experience space sensuously as we do concrete objects, we have to describe our position in it in relation to the physical objects we encounter there. This remains true even when we try to impose dimensionality on space, because, in this situation, it is still necessary for us to have a reference point from which to imagine a dimension. We can see from our spatial expressions that we refer to our positioning in space in terms of three basic issues: anchoring or grounding, orientation or placement, and enclosure or containment.
More disturbing than the loss of anchoring or orientation is a loss of enclosure or containment. When this occurs, our psychological existence becomes threatened and we feel that we might "slip through the cracks" and end up "in a void," the space beyond the walls of the container. In addition to a sense of a loss of containment, we frequently feel confined in space and say that "things are closing in on me" and that "I have no elbowroom." When this occurs we often say that we have "no way out" or that we are "going around in circles." In these situations, containment becomes crushing rather than supportive.
Martin Heidegger, the founder of twentieth-century existentialism, was the first philosopher to see and attempt to resolve the paradox that nonexistent space seems to construct our experience while, at the same time, we mentally construct space. Heidegger said that space was a medium by which we express the meaning of our experience. I use medium in the sense of a communicative platform, examples of which would be radio, television and newspapers. We could say that we broadcast ourselves, not through but in space. Conversely, the nature of space shapes our expression in it.
Heidegger (1962) called our expression via space "spatialization." He said that humans spatialize space in relation to their level of concern for, or interest in, the objects with which they interact. He said that our concern for objects gives them a "place" in a "region." For example, a commonly used tool for which we have concern, such as a hammer, is in the top drawer beside the sink (a place) in the kitchen (a region).
According to Heidegger, our distance from objects is not measured in linear units but is determined by the degree of concern with which we hold the object. We talk about this as feeling close to something or someone. Via the concern in which we hold objects we create a network of regions within which are a network of places. Heidegger calls this our "world." When speaking this way we refer to "the world of my family," "the Jungian world," or, in very broad terms, "the world of the twenty-first century."

We are aware of the uncertainty in space and the world. Our choices, random events, and all the uncontrollable details result in a limitless amount of possibilities in our lives. Recognizing this “potentiality-for-being” induces anxiety.
Gordon ‘3 (Kerry, Spring 2003, PhD in psychology of philosophy, director of research center on chaos, “The Impermanence of Being: Toward A Psychology of Uncertainty Journal of Humanistic Psychology 2003; 43; 96, http://www.ce.mahidol.ac.th/multi-media/download/sp/sp184.pdf)

Heidegger (1962), however, refuted the notion that anxiety is a pathology or even, for that matter, an emotion but rather considers it as an irreducible, existential state of being. For Heidegger, anxiety is not in response to something, such as an external threat, but exists for its own sake. It arises from the self-reflexive awareness of our own “potentiality-for-Being.” Speaking from a more strictly psychological perspective, May (1977) made much the same point in saying, “Whenever possibility is visualized by an individual, anxiety is potentially present in the same experience” (p. 38). Existence, which Heidegger calls “Being-in-the-world,” is conceived as a dynamic ground of emergence constantly creating itself through the multiplicity of its relationships. Existence is therefore conceived as an expression of infinite complexity whose nature is always in question. This is a cocreative perspective in which, similar to Prigogine’s dissipative structures, that which is giving birth is simultaneously being born. To the extent that subject and object arise interdependently, existence is a far-from-equilibrium system manifesting the flux and flow of continual emergence. This profound level of creative uncertainty is recognized in Heidegger’s (1962) statement: “That which anxiety is anxious about is Being-in-the-world itself ” (p. 187). Human beings, aware of the inherent uncertainty of existence, embody that awareness in anxiety. Uncertainty is therefore that inherent state of the world that is simultaneous with anxiety, whereas anxiety is that inherent state of being human that is simultaneous with uncertainty. When May (1977) stated that “the possibility of freedom always arouses anxiety” (p. 391), he affirmed Heidegger’s (1962) notion that anxiety is coincident with freedom, the freedom that comes with the infinite potential innate in any moment of existence. Heidegger proposed that the authentic self is that which is aware of the ambiguity and uncertainty of its existence (i.e., asks the question as to its own being) and, through intention, chooses to stand in that place. In an uncertain world of boundless, creative potential, choice is always happening. Choice is the continuous process of bifurcation that inevitably arises from the ground of uncertainty. Far from being fixed and knowable in some factual way, existence is nothing but potentiality-for-Being, a bifurcating cascade of endless choice. Whether or not we embody this awareness in action is always an open question. That is why in choice there is anxiety; it is inherent to an authentic, or creative, mode of existence.

Anxiety is not fear; it comes from facing the indeterminate bustling spectacle that is the world. Anxiety reveals who we are, as individuals, in contrast to everyone, and everything else.
Critchley ‘9 (Simon, philosopher, professor at The New School in New York, “Being and Time, part 5: Anxiety,” July 6, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/belief/2009/jul/06/heidegger-philosophy-being)

Dasein is being-in-the-world. Our everyday existence is characterised by complete immersion in the ways of the world. The world fascinates us and my life is completely caught up in its rhythms and activities. The question Heidegger asks in Chapter 6 is: how is the being-in-the-world as a whole to be disclosed? Is there an experience where the world as such and as a whole is revealed to us? Is there a mood in which we pull back from the world and see it as something distinct from us? Heidegger's claim is that being-in-the-world as a whole is disclosed in anxiety and is then defined as
care. As such, anxiety has an important methodological function in the argument of Being and Time.
But the existential resonance of anxiety is much more than methodological. The first thing to grasp is that anxiety does not mean ceaselessly fretting or fitfully worrying about something or other. On the contrary, Heidegger says that anxiety is a rare and subtle mood and in one place he even compares it a feeling of calm or peace. It is in anxiety that the free, authentic self first comes into existence. It was, of course, the mood that launched a thousand existentialist novels, most famously Sartre's Nausea and Camus's The Outsider (although Heidegger was very critical of existentialism).
In order to understand what Heidegger means by anxiety, we have to distinguish it from another mood he examines: fear. Heidegger gives a phenomenology of fear earlier in Being and Time. His claim is that fear is always fear of something threatening, some particular thing in the world. Let's say that I am fearful of spiders. Fear has an object and when that object is removed, I am no longer fearful. I see a spider in the bath and I am suddenly frightened. My non-spider fearing friend removes the offending arachnid, I am no longer fearful.
Matters are very different with anxiety. If fear is fearful of something particular and determinate, then anxiety is anxious about nothing in particular and is indeterminate. If fear is directed towards some distinct thing in the world, spiders or whatever, then anxiety is anxious about being-in-the-world as such. Anxiety is experienced in the face of something completely indefinite. It is, Heidegger insists, "nothing and nowhere".
But let's back up for a moment here. Heidegger's claim earlier in Division 1 of Being and Time (discussed in blog 3), is that the human being finds itself in a world that is richly meaningful and with which it is fascinated. In other words, the world is homely (heimlich), cosy even. In anxiety, all of this changes. Suddenly, I am overtaken by the mood of anxiety that renders the world meaningless. It appears to me as an inauthentic spectacle, a kind of tranquilised and pointless bustle of activity. In anxiety, the everyday world slips away and my home becomes uncanny (unheimlich) and strange to me. From being a player in the game of life that I loved, I become an observer of a game that I no longer see the point in playing.
What is first glimpsed in anxiety is the authentic self. As the world slips away, we obtrude. I like to think about this in maritime terms. Inauthentic life in the world is completely bound up with things and other people in a kind of "groundless floating" – the phrase is Heidegger's. Everyday life in the world is like being immersed in the sea and drowned by the world's suffocating banality. Anxiety is the experience of the tide going out, the seawater draining away, revealing a self stranded on the strand, as it were. Anxiety is that basic mood when the self first distinguishes itself from the world and becomes self-aware.
Anxiety does not need darkness, despair and night sweats. It can arise in the most innocuous of situations: sitting in the subway distractedly reading a book and overhearing conversations, one is suddenly seized by the feeling of meaninglessness, by the radical distinction between yourself and the world in which you find yourself. With this experience of anxiety, Heidegger says, Dasein is individualised and becomes self-aware.

But current policies invoke the precautionary principle in the face of uncertainty in an attempt to avoid perceived crises. This politics of zero risk turns any suspicious threat into an a-priori responsible enemy, leading to an endless state of paranoia.
Aradau and Van Munster ‘5 (Claudia, Rens, Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Southern Denmark, 2005, “Governing Terrorism and the (Non-) Politics of Risk,” Political Science Publications No. 11, pg 11-13)

The precautionary principle asks us ‘to take regulatory action on the basis of possible ‘unmanageable’ risks, even after tests have been conducted that find no evidence of harm. We are asked to make decisions to curb actions, not on the basis of what we know, but on the basis of what we do not know’ (Guldberg 2003). The European Commission’s Communication puts in a nutshell the context for applying the precautionary principle: Whether or not to invoke the Precautionary Principle is a decision exercised where scientific information is insufficient, inconclusive or uncertain and where there are indications that the possible effects on the environment, or human, animal or plant health may be potentially dangerous and inconsistent with the chosen level of protection (European Commission 2000: 10). What is the link between the precautionary principle and governing terrorism? We argue that precautionary risk has emerged in the dispositif of risk to govern terrorism, where other technologies have proven fallible or insufficient. To clarify this point, it is worth recalling an often-quoted intervention by US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld: The message is that there are no knowns. There are things that we know that we know. There are known unknowns. That is to say there are things we now know we don’t know. But there are also unknown unknowns – things we don’t know we don’t know (Rumsfeld 2002). Rumsfeld’s tautological comments could be read as an overview of risk management. The ‘known knowns’ activate technologies of responsibility, while the ‘known unknows’ are the risks that can still be integrated by insurance technologies: They refer to the unknown future that can be governed through statistical probabilities and other forms of computation. Finally, the ‘unknown unknowns’ can be said to represent the catastrophic events that disturb the existing modalities of governing uncertainty and the future. According to Ewald, ‘the precautionary principle does not target all risk situations but only those marked by two principal features: a context of scientific uncertainty on the one hand and the possibility of serious and irreversible damage on the other’ (Ewald 2002: 282).8 Terrorist attacks rely upon such uncertainty, while their effects are hardly calculable. Although insurance has tried to think terrorism on the model of insurance for environmental catastrophes, the difficulties of predicting terrorist losses has been one of the major impediments for the insurance industry. Terrorism is to some extent a ‘risk beyond risk’, of which we do not have, nor cannot have, the knowledge or the measure. Thus, the precautionary principle (or a precautionary approach to avoid a strictly legal connotation and emphasise technologies and discourses) applies where the scientific technologies for ‘representing’ the world find themselves surpassed by reality itself. Unlike insurance which is based upon statistical models of reality, the precautionary logic ‘applies to what is uncertain – that is, to what one can apprehend without being able to assess’ (Ewald: 286). If terrorism seems to lend itself logically to the precautionary principle more than to insurance, how is this relation actualised in practice? One could locate four interlinked rationalities of the precautionary approach: zero risk, worst case scenario, shifting the burden of proof and serious and irreversible damage. With the precautionary principle, any level of risk is considered unacceptable. If insurance is supported by assessments that define what level of risk is deemed unacceptable, the precautionary principle avoids risks at all costs. The worst case scenario and its irreversible damages logically lead to a politics of zero risk. This is certainly a modification of the solidaristic equation that took for granted that a risk was acceptable as long as it was reparable or repaired (Ewald 2002: 284). As a result, the imperative of prevention is much more drastic in the precautionary principle than in the case of insurance. If responsibility in insurance was reduced to the case of moral hazards (when the behaviour of the insured was likely to lead to risk)9 and therefore part of the assessment for the purpose of compensation, the precautionary principle holds the other responsible for ‘irreparable damage’. Against immeasurable and irreparable damage, George Bush’s ‘infinite justice’ gains its full meaning. The sanctioning of those deemed responsible becomes itself immeasurable, therefore infinite. From ‘Bin Laden dead or alive’ to ‘infinite justice’ we cover the whole spectrum of practices that the logic of precautionary risk activates – from the imaginary of vengeance against an individual evil-doer and its accomplices on the model of criminal sanctioning and responsibility to the infinite sanctioning of suspects. Precaution requires political decisions in situations of uncertainty. It can no longer rely on knowledge, on statistical and actuarial data, on biographical profiles. But in the precautionary imaginary, the other’s responsibility is also uncertain and a matter of political decision. Whether the evidence against the terrorist suspects in the British high- security Belmarsh Prison consists of a pair of boots donated to Islamic Chechen rebels or something more material is in itself immaterial. The ‘burden of proof’ is no longer on the state to show guilt, but on the prisoners to prove innocence. This changes the system of juridical responsibility to an a priori responsibility and guilt, even before any event has taken place? As a priori responsibility cannot be accommodated by juridical thinking, such impossibility often transfers judgements of responsibility to the sphere of policing, of the administrative. In the logic of precaution, those considered potentially dangerous will also be ‘a priori’ responsible, subjected to administrative measures that would be the equivalent of a juridical sanction. Indeed, the inclusion of ‘indefinite detention’, ‘house arrest’ as instruments in the UK fight against terrorism nicely capture the tension between the juridical and the administrative (or the executive). Similar tensions are visible on the international level, most notably in the United States’ doctrine of pre-emption. In the Caroline case of 1842, it was argued that pre-emptive state violence should be considered legitimate only when there exists ‘a necessity of self-defence, instant, overwhelming, leaving no choice of means and no moment for deliberation.’ So defined, pre-emption implies that anticipatory self-defence is only legitimate in case the other side has already fully and irrevocably committed itself to an armed attack.


Constantly trying to rid our environment of the things that make us uncomfortable affects our perception of the world. The questions we ask and the solutions we prescribe are tainted with our inability to accept what we consider strange. This necessitates violence against the unknown.
Der Derian ’93 (James, 1993, “The value of security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” The Political Subject of Violence, pg. 102-105)

The desire for security is manifested as a collective resentment of difference that which is not us, not certain, not predictable. Complicit with a negative will to power is the fear-driven desire for protection from the unknown. Unlike the positive will to power, which produces an aesthetic affirmation of difference, the search for truth produces a truncated life which conforms to the rationally knowable, to the causally sustainable. In The Gay Science, Nietzsche asks of the reader: "Look, isn't our need for knowledge precisely this need for the familiar, the will to uncover everything strange, unusual, and questionable, something that no longer disturbs us? Is it not the instinct of fear that bids us to know? And is the jubilation of those who obtain knowledge not the jubilation over the restoration of a sense of security?" The fear of the unknown and the desire for certainty combine to produce a domesticated life, in which causality and rationality become the highest sign of a sovereign self, the surest protection against contingent forces. The fear of fate assures a belief that everything reasonable is true, and everything true, reasonable. In short, the security imperative produces, and is sustained by, the strategies of knowledge which seek to explain it. Nietzsche elucidates the nature of this generative relationship in The Twilight of the idols: The causal instinct is thus conditional upon, and excited by, the feeling of fear. The "why?" shall, if at all possible, not give the cause for its own sake so much as for a particular kind of cause --a cause that is comforting, liberating and relieving.... That which is new and strange and has not been experienced before is excluded as a cause. Thus one not only searches for some kind of explanation to serve as a cause, but for a particularly selected and preferred kind of explanation--that which most quickly and frequently abolished the feeling of the strange, new and hitherto unexperienced: the most habitual explanations.; A safe life requires safe truths. The strange and the alien remain unexamined, the unknown becomes identified as evil, and evil provokes hostility--recycling the desire for security. The "influence of timidity," as Nietzsche puts it, creates a people who are willing to subordinate affirmative values to the "necessities" of security: "they fear change, transitoriness: this expresses a straitened soul, full of mistrust and evil experiences." The unknowable which cannot be contained by force or explained by reason is relegated to the off-world. "Trust," the "good," and other common values come to rely upon an "artificial strength": "the feeling of security such as the Christian possesses; he feels strong in being able to trust, to be patient and composed: he owes this artificial strength to the illusion of being protected by a god." For Nietzsche, of course, only a false sense of security can come from false gods: "Morality and religion belong altogether to the psychology of error: in every single case, cause and effect are confused; or truth is confused with the effects of believing something to be true; or a state of consciousness is confused with its causes." Nietzsche's interpretation of the origins of religion can shed some light on this paradoxical origin and transvaluation of security. In The Genealogy of Morals, Nietzsche sees religion arising from a sense of fear and indebtedness to one's ancestors: The conviction reigns that it is only through the sacrifices and accomplishments of the ancestors that the tribe exists --and that one has to pay them back with sacrifices and accomplishments: one thus recognizes a debt that constantly grows greater, since these forebears never cease, in their continued existence as powerful spirits, to accord the tribe new advantages and new strength. The ancestors of the most powerful tribes are bound eventually to grow to monstrous dimensions through the imagination of growing fear and to recede into the darkness of the divinely uncanny and unimaginable: in the end the ancestor must necessarily be transfigured into a god. As the ancestor's debt becomes embedded in institutions, the community takes on the role of creditor. Nietzsche mocks this originary, Hobbesian moment: to rely upon an "artificial strength": "the feeling one lives in a community, one enjoys the advantages of communality (oh what advantages! we sometimes underrate them today), one dwells protected, cared for, in peace and trustfulness, without fear of certain injuries and hostile acts to which the man outside , the "man without peace," is exposed . . . since one has bound and pledged oneself to the community precisely with a view to injury and hostile acts. The establishment of the community is dependent upon, indeed it feeds upon, this fear of being left outside. As the castle wall is replaced by written treaty, however, and distant gods by temporal sovereigns, the martial skills and spiritual virtues of the noble warrior are slowly debased and dissimulated. The subject of the individual will to power becomes the object of a collective resentment. The result? The fear of the external other is transvalued into the "love of the neighbor" quoted in the opening of this section, and the perpetuation of community is assured through the internalization and legitimation of a fear that lost its original source long ago. This powerful nexus of fear, of external and internal otherness, generates the values which uphold the security imperative. Indeed, Nietzsche locates the genealogy of even individual rights, such as freedom, in the calculus of maintaining security: My rights are that part of my power which others not merely conceded me, but which they wish me to preserve. How do these others arrive at that? First: through their prudence and fear and caution: whether in that they expect something similar from us in return (protection of their rights); or in that they consider that a struggle with us would be perilous or to no purpose; or in that they see in any diminution of our force a disadvantage to themselves, since we would then be unsuited to forming an alliance with them in opposition to a hostile third power. Then: by donation and cession .. The point of Nietzsche's critical genealogy is to show that the perilous conditions that created the security imperative--and the western metaphysics that perpetuate it--have diminished if not disappeared; yet, the fear of life persists: "Our century denies this perilousness, and does so with a good conscience: and yet it continues to drag along with it the old habits of Christian security, Christian enjoyment, recreation and evaluation.". Nietzsche's worry is that the collective reaction against older, more primal fears has created an even worse danger: the tyranny of the herd, the lowering of man, the apathy of the last man which controls through conformity and rules through passivity. The security of the sovereign, rational self and state comes at the cost of ambiguity, uncertainty, paradox--all that makes a free life worthwhile. Nietzsche's lament for this lost life is captured at the end of Daybreak in a series of rhetorical questions: Of future virtues How comes it that the more comprehensible the world has grown the more solemnities of every kind have decreased? Is it that fear was so much the basic element of that reverence which overcame us in the presence of everything unknown and mysterious and taught us to fall down before the incomprehensible and plead for mercy? And has the world not lost some of its charm for us because we have grown less fearful? With the diminution of our fearfulness has our own dignity and solemnity, our own fearsomeness, not also diminished?


Space is ingrained in the world but our perceptions of it constantly change. Each individual star in the night sky is in a different place when we look up, but we like to imagine it as being organized and manageable. We create constellations and map out the stars’ positions in order to understand and conceptualize space. But the more we understand about space, the more we realize we truly don’t. We don’t understand why planets are moving apart from each other despite their gravitational pulls toward each other and don’t know where much of the matter is in the universe. We come up with theories to explain these phenomena, but ultimately don’t even know how our own theories function. We find new planets and discover new concepts, completely reforming the rules of space all the time.

We, as the affirmative, choose to embrace space as possibility, an endless amount of choices and potential. This stance will induce anxiety, but incorporating that feeling of uncertainty into our decision-making is needed.

We advocate the rejection of practices such as realism and hegemony that require the elimination of the unknown. We choose to refuse the predictions and projected crises that currently dictate our politics. We need to understand that uncertainty is not something to be feared and controlled, but something to be respected as another possibility of being. Instead of constantly imposing policies onto the world in order to feel safe, we need to let it be. Only then can a more cautious and self-reflective politics be born.

Including anxiety in our decision-making prevents senseless violence. We become responsible for our actions on a personal, ethical, level, leading to a self-reflective and conscious thought process. We no longer have to control the unknown, but can respect it as a contingency of being.
Ronell ‘8 (Avital, Professor of Philosophy @ European Graduate School, Professor of German, comparative literature, and English @ York University, transcript of Astra Taylor’s interview of Ronell in her film “The Examined Life: Philosophy is in the Streets”)

One thing I want to ask you about is meaning.
Is philosophy a search for meaning?
I am very suspicious historically and intellectually of the promise of meaning because meaning has often had very fashistoid, non-progressivist edges if not a core of that sort of thing. So that very often also the emergency supplies of meaning that are brought to a given incident, or structure, or theme in ones life are cover-ups our way of dressing the wound of not meaning. I think it is very hard to keep things in the tensional structure of the openness whether it is ecstatic or not of non-meaning. That is very, very difficult which is why there is then the quick grasp for the transcendental signifier for god, for nation, for patriotism. It has been very devastating this craving for meaning. Though it is something with which we are in constant negotiation. Everyone wants something like meaning. But when you see these dogs play why reduce it to meaning? Rather than just see the arbitrary eruption of something that can’t be grasped or explicated, but is just there in an absolute contingency of being. To leave things open and radically in-appropriable and admitting that we haven’t really understood is much less satisfying, more frustrating, and more necessary I think. And that is why I think a lot of people have been fed and fueled by promises of immediate gratification in thought, and food, and junk and so on; junk thought and junk food and so on. There is a politics of refusing that gratification. I know that is crazy making but I think that is where we have to pull the breaks.
Some people might be troubled or might wonder how do you behave ethically if there is no ultimate meaning?
Precisely where there isn’t guaranteed or palpable meaning you have to do a lot of work and you have to be mega ethical because it’s much easer to live life and know that you “shouldn’t do” and that you “should do” because someone said so. IF we are not anxious, if we are ok with things, we are not trying to explore or figure things out. So anxiety is the mood par excellence of ethicity I think. Now I am not prescribing anxiety disorder for anyone, however could you imagine Mr. Bush who doesn’t give a shit when he sends everyone to the gas chamber or to the electric chair; he expresses no anxiety and they are very proud of this, they don’t lose a wink of sleep, they express no anxiety. This is something that Derrida has taught. If you feel you have acquitted yourself honorably then you are not so ethical. If you have a good conscious then you are kind of worthless. If you think, “oh I gave this homeless person five bucks, I’m great,” then you are irresponsible. The responsible being is one who thinks they have never been responsible enough; they have never taken enough care of the other. The other is so in excess of anything you can understand, or grasp, or reduce; this in itself creates an ethical relatedness, a relation without relation. Because you can presume to know or grasp the other, the minute you think you know the other you are ready to kill them. You think, “Oh they are doing this or this. They are the axis of evil lets drop some bombs.” But if you don’t know, you don’t understand this alterity, it’s so other that you can’t violate it with your sense of understanding. You have to let it live in a sense.

This kind of self-reflective rethinking of our everyday uneventful actions slowly transforms our values and the way we relate to the world.
Bleiker 2000 (Roland, coordinator of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program @ U of Queensland, Popular Dissent, Human Agency, and Global Politics,)

Moving to more contemporary settings, we find scholars who attempt to locate everyday practices of resistance in domains where domination had hitherto been considered omnipresent. The historian Stephen Kotkin, for instance, analyses in great detail how the Soviet industrial city of Magnitogorsk emerged and expanded during the 1930s. Although life in the city almost perfectly epitomises the despotic character of Stalinism, Kotkin demonstrates how ordinary citizens constantly reshaped the environment in which they lived. ‘New categories of thinking suddenly appeared, old ones were modified; nothing stood still’.49 Thinking space was generated through seemingly insignificant acts, such as the process of naming and explaining new phenomena they encountered in the market place or their living quarters. Far more often than the coercive political climate would suggest, individuals were able to challenge, or at least circumvent, existing rules by engaging in ‘resourceful, albeit localised, resistance to the terms of daily life that developed within the crusade of building socialism’.50 As has been the case with more heroic practices of popular dissent, everyday forms of resistance have undergone important transformations with the advent of globalisation. The prevalence of global media networks, in particular, has provided the struggle over values with almost immediate cross-territorial dimensions. Among the everyday forms of resistance that are operative in these transversal terrains are the increasing number of so-called new social movements. They are pressure groups and other loose organisations that do not challenge the prevailing political system as such, but contribute to a slow and constant transformation of values by focusing on the need to rethink specific issue areas. In an insightful and highly compelling study, R.B.J. Walker has demonstrated how such critical social movements engage local dynamics such that the ensuing creation of thinking space has the potential to engender transformation in a much wider spatial and political context.51 The diffused activities of social movements are, in some ways, the quintessential form of postmodern politics, of local dissent against various forms of metanarrative impositions. 52 Critical social movements and other everyday forms of resistance operate, of course, in all parts of the world. Arturo Escobar and Sonia Alvarez, for instance, have shown how, in Latin America during the 1980s, various collective forms of protest were able to promote social change by engaging in the construction and reconstruction of collective identities.53 Some also suggest that dissident potential is hidden in the seemingly homogenising and suffocating forces of popular culture, where some detect, much as Rabelais did half a millennium before, carnivalesque challenges to the narrow and single representation of reason in the public sphere.54 Summary This chapter has mapped out some of the discursive terrains in which transversal dissent takes place. Discourses are not invincible monolithic forces that subsume everything in reach. Despite their power to frame social practices, a discursively entrenched hegemonic order can be fragmented and thin at times. To excavate the possibilities for dissent that linger in these cracks, a shift of foci from epistemological to ontological issues is necessary. Scrutinising the level of Being reveals how individuals can escape aspects of hegemony. Dasein, the existential awareness of Being, always already contains the potential to become something else than what it is. By shifting back and forth between hyphenated identities, an individual can travel across various discursive fields of power and gain the critical insight necessary to escape at least some aspect of the prevailing order. Transversal practices of dissent that issue from such mobile subjectivities operate at the level of dailiness. Through a range of seemingly mundane acts of resistance, people can gradually transform societal values and thus promote powerful processes of social change. These transformations are not limited to existing boundaries of sovereignty. The power of discursive practices is not circumscribed by some ultimate spatial delineation, and neither are the practices of dissent that interfere with them. At a time when the flow of capital and information is increasingly trans-territorial, the sphere of everyday life has become an integral aspect of global politics – one that deserves the attention of scholars who devote themselves to the analysis of international relations. The remaining chapters seek to sustain this claim and, in doing so, articulate a viable and non-essentialist concept of human agency.

Our agency is not something that can be defined by a formula. Demanding the identification of causes and effects in order to map out what our influence specifically does is not only impossible, but prescribes to a broken and disempowering interpretation of the world.
Bleiker 2000 (Roland, coordinator of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program @ U of Queensland, Popular Dissent, Human Agency, and Global Politics, )

Discursive dissent operates tactically, rather than strategically. And tactical action cannot be understood in causal terms. It is different from a strategic form of dissent, where agent and target can be separated and the attempt is usually made to articulate a causal relationship between them. Strategy envisages how an identifiable agent (such as a protest march) exerts influence on an identifiable target (such as a change in policy desired by the march). A discursive understanding of human agency in global politics cannot rely on such strategic and causal assumptions. In the context of complex transversal struggles, the duality of cause and effect, as it is commonly perceived, does not exist. What does exist, instead, is a continuum of interconnected crossterritorial dynamics from which we arbitrarily isolate a few pieces and then neatly fit them, as Nietzsche once expressed it, into the image we had already made for ourselves of the world.5 The link between action and outcome in discursive forms of dissent is impossible to articulate through a causal formula. As opposed to strategic action, de Certeau emphasises, tactical forms of resistance have no clearly specified target, no visible place to exert influence. There is no direct causal relationship between the subject of will and the exterior circumstances at which this will is directed. Tactical actions, de Certeau claims, cannot be autonomous from their target. They always insinuate themselves into the Other, without seizing it entirely, but yet without being able to keep their distance.6 Take the rather mundane example that could come from any industrialised society: a critical and environmentally aware consumer who, against prevalent practices of production and consumption, refuses to buy milk that is bottled in non-reusable containers. At first sight, such a localised protest act seems to be void of any political significance, yet alone a transversal one. Alone this shopper does not stand a chance of exerting human agency in the traditional sense. S/he does not cause particular events, does not physically transgress boundaries, does not walk through walls and iron curtains. But if a substantial part of the population engages in similar daily acts of protest, producers will eventually be compelled to adjust to changed market conditions. But where is the agent and the causal relationship in this form of protest? One cannot pick out a particular shopper who epitomises this tactical act of dissent. Consumers may also have multiple reasons for refusing to buy milk in non-reusable containers. They may, for example, have environmental related concerns, oppose commercial dairy farmers, or be vegetarian. Moreover, where is the target of this tactical form of dissent? Is it the supermarket? The retailer? The producer of nonreusable containers? The farmer who delivers milk? Government authorities who fail to impose sufficient environmental standards? Cross-territorial trade practices? Fellow shoppers who still buy milk bottled in non-reusable containers? Or even the global political economy as a whole, of which the said shopper is as much part as anybody else? A tactic does not have the possibility of perceiving its adversary in a space that is distinct, visible and objectifiable. The space of tactic is always the space of the Other.7 This is to say that a tactical form of dissent, like shopping, cannot keep its distance from the object of the action. It always operates in the terrain of the opponent. Tactical actions leave their assigned places, enter a world that is too big to be their own but also too tightly woven to escape from. Because tactic does not have a specific target and cannot separate between the I and the Other, it can never conquer something, it can never keep what it wins. Tactic must always seize the moment and explore cracks that open up within existing discursive orders. It must constantly manipulate its environment in order to create opportunities for social change.8 It is through the concept of temporality that we can appreciate the ways in which tactical actions unleash their transformative and transversal potential. The causality entailed in a discursive understanding of human agency, as far as one can speak of causality in this diffused context, is always mediated through time. But temporality is a slippery concept, an experience that is, according to Gaston Bachelard, never pure.9 Tactical actions, de Certeau stresses, operate along ‘indeterminate trajectories’. This means, in a first instance, that tactic works discursively, that it transforms values and becomes visible and effective only through maturation over time. In a second instance, the indeterminacy of the trajectory refers to the fact that tactical actions defy the spatial logic established by the organising procedures of a particular political or economic system. Expressed in de Certeau’s somewhat idiosyncratic language, tactical actions cannot be perceived as a conventional succession of events in space. They evoke a temporal movement, one that focuses on the diachronic succession of points, rather than the figure that these points establish on a supposedly synchronic and achronic space. The latter view, de Certeau stresses, would make the mistake of reducing a ‘temporal articulation of places into a spatial sequence of points’.10 Tactical action contains transversal potential. The above mentioned refusal to buy milk bottled in non-reusable containers illustrates how tactical manifestations of human agency are not bound by the spatial logic of national sovereignty. The consumer who changes his/her shopping habits engages in an action that escapes the spatial controlling mechanisms of established political and economic boundaries. The effect of such a tactical action is not limited to a localised target, say, the supermarket. Over an extended period of time, and in conjunction with similar actions, such tactical dissent may influence globalised practices of production, trade, investment, advertisement and the like. The transversal manifestations that issue from such actions operate along an indeterminate trajectory insofar as they promote a slow transformation of values whose effects transgress places and become visible and effective only by maturation over time.

Requiring a stable foundation to filter all of our knowledge through is to give a subjective form of knowledge the power to determine what a legitimate concern is, what’s possible, and ultimately what truth is. In international relations the dominant lens is realism, coloring all political decisions, forcing the world onto a single path. This stifles dissent and limits possibility.
Bleiker ‘7 (Roland Bleiker, An Introduction to International Relations: Australian Perspectives, p. 89-90)

Within such modern attempts to fuse subjectivity and science there is ample room for discussion and diversity, more than in any preceding period. Indeed, Hegel considers the right to criticism precisely as one of modernity's key characteristics (Habermas 1985: 27). The breathing space necessary for criticism was provided by the emergence of a public sphere in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Europe. Passionate debates were waged about all aspects of modern life. Virtually every opinion, every thought, every theory was attacked, refuted or at least submitted to intense and sustained scrutiny.
While the waging of fierce intellectual debates emerged as a key feature of modernity, the range of these debates was not as boundless as it appears at first sight. William Connolly (1993) emphasises that modern debates all have a distinctive character. They are all well framed. The contours of the modern framing process have to a large extent been drawn by the recurring unwillingness to deal with what Nietzsche called the death of God: the dis¬appearance, at the end of the medieval period, of a generally accepted worldview that pro¬vided a stable ground from which it was possible to assess nature, knowledge, common values, truth, politics, in short, life itself. When the old theocentric world crumbled, when the one and only commonly accepted point of reference vanished, the death of God became the key dilemma around which modern debates were waged. Yet, instead of accepting the absence of stable foundations and dealing with the ensuing responsibilities, many prominent modern approaches embarked on attempts to find replacements for the fallen God. They desperately searched for stable foundations that could offer the type of order and certainty that was once provided by the Catholic Church. This quest has taken different shapes in various stages of the modern project. For Renaissance humanists it centred around a sceptical and rhetorical belief in human agency and the virtue of 'men'. During the Enlightenment it was trust in science and universal reason. For romantics it was the belief in aesthetics and a deified self. For Marxists it consisted of faith in history's teleological dimension.
The well-bounded nature of modern debates is perfectly epitomised in international relations scholarship. Here too, everything has been debated fiercely. Seemingly nothing was spared criticism. And yet, these debates have all been well framed. They have been framed by the urge to impose order upon a complex and elusive modern world. Steve Smith has drawn attention to this framing process. For him, positivism is the common theme that runs through a diverse set of traditional approaches to international relations. At its most elementary level, positivism is based on an attempt to separate subject and object. It implies that the social scientist, as detached observer, can produce value-free knowledge, that our comprehension of facts can be separated from our relationship with them (Smith 1996: 11-44; see also 2004: 499-515).
All things that live long are gradually so saturated with reason that their origin in unreason thereby becomes improbable (Friedrich Nietzsche, 1982: 9).
For a postmodern scholar the key task is thus to accept the death of God: to recognise that there are no underlying foundations that can absolve us of taking responsibility for politi¬cal decisions. Thinking and acting inevitably express a will to truth, a desire to control and impose order upon random and idiosyncratic events. 'To think', Adorno (1992: 17) says, 'is to identify'. When we think we identify choices, privilege one interpretation over others, and, often without knowing it, exclude what does not fit into the way we want to see things. There is no escape from this process, no possibility of extracting pure facts from observation. To dis¬respect these limits to cognition is to endow one particular and necessarily subjective form of knowledge with the power to determine the nature of factual evidence. It is from such a the¬oretical vantage point that scholars like Jim George (1994) or Richard Ashley (1984) have tried to show how positivist approaches have transformed one specific interpretation of world political realities, the dominant realist one, into reality per se. As a result, realist perceptions of the international have gradually become accepted as common sense, to the point that any critique against them has to be evaluated in terms of an already existing and largely natu¬ralised (realist) worldview. Smith detects powerful mechanisms of control precisely in this ability to determine meaning and rationality, to decide which issues are or are not legitimate concerns for international theorists. 'Defining common sense', he argues, 'is the ultimate act of political power' (Smith 1996: 13). It separates the possible from the impossible and directs the theory and practice of world politics on a particular path.