=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

<span class="Underline">**Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered** </span>
<span class="Underline">**NRC 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
__Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing NEOs coming toward Earth from near the Sun’s direction__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">because their close proximity to the Sun—as viewed from Earth—causes sunlight scattered by Earth’s atmosphere to be a problem and also poses risks to the telescopes when they point toward these directions. </span>__Objects remaining in those directions have orbits largely interior to Earth’s; the understanding of their number is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as yet </span>__very uncertain__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In addition, </span>__there are objects that remain too far from Earth to be detected almost all of the time__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The latter include Earth-approaching comets (comets with orbits that approach the Sun at distances less than 1.3 astronomical units [AU] and have periods less than 200 years), of which 151 are currently known. These represent a class of objects probably doomed to be perpetually only partly known, as they are not likely to be detected in advance of a close Earth encounter. These objects, after the completion of exhaustive searches for NEOs, could dominate the impact threat to humanity. </span>__Thus, assessing the completeness of the NEO surveys is subject to uncertainties: Some groups of NEOs are particularly difficult to detect. Asteroids and comets are continually lost from the NEO population because they impact the Sun or a planet, or because they are ejected from the solar system. Some asteroids have collisions that change their sizes or orbits. New objects are introduced into the NEO population from more distant reservoirs__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> over hundreds of thousands to millions of years. The </span>__undiscovered NEOs could include large objects__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> like 2009 HC82 as well as objects </span>__that will be discovered only months or less before Earth impact__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“imminent impactors”). </span>__Hence, even though 85 percent of NEOs larger than 1 kilometer in diameter might already have been discovered__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and eventually more than 90 percent of NEOs larger than 140 meters in diameter will be discovered, </span>__NEO surveys should nevertheless continue, because objects not yet discovered pose a statistical risk: Humanity must be constantly vigilant__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Finding: Despite progress toward or completion of any survey of near-Earth objects, it is impossible to identify all of these objects because objects’ orbits can change, for example due to collisions. Recommendation: Once a near-Earth object survey has reached its mandated goal, </span>__the search for NEOs should not stop. Searching should continue to identify as many of the remaining objects and objects newly injected into the NEO population as possible__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, especially imminent impactors.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Despite these failures feasible solutions exist—this outweighs all other impacts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**POLYCAPITALIST 10-28-2010**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (I am an independent investor with private sector experience in investment banking, strategy consulting and venture capital. I have worked with both multinationals and startups, and I have served on the board of directors of both publicly traded and private companies. My academic training consists of graduate/postgraduate studies in accounting, finance and economic history. “Cheap Insurance Against the Ultimate Black Swan,” http://seekingalpha.com/instablog/489997-the-polycapitalist/105674-cheap-insurance-against-the-ultimate-black-swan)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">I thought it could be a nice, light distraction to write about </span><span class="Underline">the greatest known threat to life on earth</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. What is it? </span><span class="Underline">Global warming, infectious disease</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and </span><span class="Underline">thermonuclear war are</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> some of the more </span><span class="Underline">common answers</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to this question. </span><span class="Underline">However, there is another threat of</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> perhaps </span><span class="Underline">even greater danger which doesn't receive nearly as much airtime, or resources devoted to its prevention</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Former astronaut Russell Schweickart recently penned a NY Times piece on the very real risks posed by asteroids to life on earth. I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Schweickart several years ago, and he is generally considered the leading advocate for increasing awareness and addressing this threat. </span><span class="Underline">Asteroids</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -- as any T-Rex fan will attest -- </span><span class="Underline">can be absolutely devastating. Strong scientific evidence suggests that</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 65 million years ago </span><span class="Underline">an asteroid</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of approximately seven to eight miles in diameter struck near Mexico and </span><span class="Underline">wiped out the dinosaurs and over half of all species</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">It doesn't take an eight mile asteroid to cause significant damage. The 'Tunguska event'</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which </span><span class="Underline">featured an asteroid with a diamater of only 120 feet</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, leveled approximately 800 square miles of (thankfully) relatively empty Siberian forest. </span><span class="Underline">An asteroid much smaller</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> than Tunguska </span><span class="Underline">could</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> hit a heavily populated area and </span><span class="Underline">cause a loss of life in the millions</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Can Anything Be Done? There is some good news. </span><span class="Underline">We already possess the technical knowledge to prevent asteroid impact</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. We can detect asteroids that may collide with earth, sometimes up to a decade in advance of potential impact. </span><span class="Underline">We</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> also </span><span class="Underline">know what to do once we've spotted one that's on a collision course with our planet</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. One option can be described simply as using a spacecraft to "rear-end" the asteroid. This alters the asteroid's trajectory away from earth. </span><span class="Underline">The bad news is that we are not investing the relative pittance it would take to mitigate asteroid impact risk</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Schweickart estimates that </span><span class="Underline">it would cost</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> roughly $250-$300 million over the next 10 years </span><span class="Underline">to track all asteroids and fully develop the deflection</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> capability. Annual maintenance expense for the program would be $50-$75 million. These figures represent </span><span class="Underline">a small fraction of the U.S. federal budget</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">So, the choice is pretty clear. We can either spend a few hundred millions dollars and mitigate asteroid risk. Or we can continue to roll the dice risking perhaps all life on earth</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Asteroid deflection attempts are inevitable but they will fail without early warning**
<span class="Underline">**NRC 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In contrast to other known natural hazards, there has been no significant loss of human life to impacts in historical times, due to the low frequency of major impacts and the higher probability of impact in unpopulated areas (notably the oceans) rather than in populated regions. Unlike the other hazards listed in Table 2.2, the hazard statistics for NEOs are dominated by single events with potentially high fatalities separated by long time intervals. </span>__Should scientists identify a large__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> life-threatening </span>__object on a collision course with Earth, tremendous public resources to mitigate the risk would almost certainly be brought to bear. However, options for effective mitigation become much more limited when threatening objects are identified with only months to years, rather than decades or centuries, before impact. Thus, one of the greatest elements of risk associated with NEOs is the public’s expectation that governments will provide protection against any threat from NEOs, even as governments and agencies have been unwilling so far to expend public funds in a concerted effort to identify, catalog, and characterize as many potentially dangerous NEOs as possible, as far in advance of a damaging impact event as feasible__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Advantage ___ is asteroid collision**

**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**
**VERSCHUUR 1996**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the past few years, the comet impact scenario has taken on a life of its own and the danger of asteroids has been added to the comet count. In the context of heightened interest in the threat, </span>__reassuring predictions have been offered about the likelihood of__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a civilization-destroying </span>__impact__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in the years to come. Without exception, the </span>__scientists who have recently offered odds have been careful in making any statement__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. They have acted in a "responsible" manner and left us with a feeling that the threat is not worth worrying about. This is not to criticize their earnest efforts, only to point out that estimates have been attempted for centuries. The way I look at the business of offering odds is that </span>__it hardly matters whether the chance of being wiped out next century is 1 in 10,000__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, for example, or that the likelihood of a civilization-destroying impact is once in a million years. </span>__That's like betting on a horse race. The only thing that is certain is that a horse will win. What matters is the larger picture that begins to force itself into our imagination; comet or asteroid impacts are inevitable__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The next one may not wipe us out in the coming century, or even in the century after that, but </span>__sooner or later it will happen. It could happen next year__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. I think that what matters is how we react to this knowledge. That, in the long run, is what will make a difference to our planet and its inhabitants. It is not the impact itself that may be immediately relevant; it is how we react to the idea of an impact that may change the course of human history. I am afraid that </span>__we will deal with this potentially mind-expanding discovery in the way we deal with most issues that relate to matters of great consequence; we will ignore it until the crisis is upon us. The problem may be that the consequences of a comet catastrophe are so horrendous that it is easiest to confront it through denial. In the end, though, it may be this limitation of human nature that will determine our fate__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**The impact is extinction**
**McGUIRE 2002**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to what happened </span>__off the coast of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 65 million years earlier. Here </span>__a 10-kilometre asteroid__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> or comet—its exact nature is uncertain—crashed into the sea and </span>__changed our world forever. Within microseconds, an unimaginable explosion released as much energy as billions of Hiroshima bombs detonated simultaneously, creating a titanic fireball hotter than the Sun that vaporized the ocean__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and excavated a crater 180 kilometres across in the crust beneath. Shock waves blasted upwards, </span>__tearing the atmosphere apart and expelling over a hundred trillion tonnes of molten rock into space, later to fall across the globe__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Almost </span>__immediately____an area bigger than Europe would have been__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> flattened and </span>__scoured of__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> virtually </span>__all life__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, while massive earthquakes rocked the planet. The atmosphere would have howled and screamed as </span>__hypercanes five times more powerful than the strongest hurricane ripped the landscape apart__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, joining forces with huge tsunamis to batter coastlines many thousandsof kilometres distant. Even worse was to follow. As the rock blasted into space began to rain down across the entire planet so the </span>__heat__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> generated by its re-entry into the atmosphere </span>__irradiated the surface, roasting animals alive as effectively as an oven__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> grill, </span>__and starting great conflagrations that laid waste the world's forests and grasslands and turned fully a quarter of all living material to ashes__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Even once the atmosphere and oceans had settled down, the crust had stopped shuddering, and the bombardment of debris from space had ceased, more was to come. In the following weeks, </span>__smoke and dust in the atmosphere blotted out the Sun and brought temperatures plunging__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> by as much as 15 degrees Celsius. </span>__In the growing gloom and bitter cold the surviving plant life__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> wilted and </span>__died__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> while those herbivorous dinosaurs that remained slowly starved. </span>__global wildfires and acid rain__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> from the huge quantities of sulphur injected into the atmosphere from rocks at the site of the impact </span>__poured into the oceans, wiping out three-quarters of all marine life. After years of freezing conditions the gloom__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> following the so-called Chicxulub impact would eventually have </span>__lifted, only to reveal a terrible Sun blazing through the tatters of an ozone layer torn apart by the chemical action of nitrous oxides__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> concocted in the impact fireball: </span>__an ultraviolet spring hard on the heels of the cosmic winter that fried many of the remaining species__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> struggling precariously to hang on to life. So enormously was the natural balance of the Earth upset that according to some it might have taken hundreds of thousands of years for the post-Chicxulub Earth to return to what passes for normal. When it did the age of the great reptiles was finally over, leaving the field to the primitive mammals—our distant ancestors—and opening an evolutionary trail that culminated in the rise and rise of the human race. But could we go the same way1?To assess the chances, let me look a little more closely at the destructive power of an impact event. At Tunguska, destruction of the forests resulted partly from the great heat generated by the explosion, but mainly from the blast wave that literally pushed the trees over and flattened them against the ground. The strength of this blast wave depends upon what is called the peak overpressure, that is the difference between ambient pressure and the pressure of the blastwave. In order to cause severe destruction thisnccds to exceed 4. pounds per square inch, an overpressure that results in wind speeds that arc over twice the force of those found in a typical hurricane. Even though tiny compared with, say, the land area of London, the enormous overpressures generated by a 50-metre object exploding low overhead would cause damage comparable with the detonation of a very large nuclear device, obliterating almost everything within the city's orbital motorway. Increase the size of the impactor and things get very much worse. An asteroid just 250 metres across would be sufficiently massive to penetrate the atmosphere; blasting a crater 5 kilometres across and devastating an area of around 10,000 square kilometres— that is about the size of the English county of Kent. Raise the size of the asteroid again, to 650 metres, and the area of devastation increases to ioo;ooo square kilometres—about the size of the US state of South Carolina. Terrible as this all sounds, however, even this would be insufficient to affect the entire planet. In order to do this, an impactor has to be at least 1 kilometre across, if it is one of the speedier comets, or 1.5 kilometres in diameter if it is one of the slower asteroids. </span>__A collision__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> with one of these objects </span>__would generate a blast equivalent to 100.000 million tonnes of TNT__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, which would obliterate an area 500 kilometres across say the size of England—and kill perhaps tens of millions of people, depending upon the location of the impact. The real problems for the rest of the world would start soon after as dust in the atmosphere began to darken the skies and reduce the level of sunlight reaching the Earth's surface. By comparison with the huge Chicxulub impact it is certain that this would result in a dramatic lowering of global temperatures but there is no consensus on just how bad this would be. The chances are, however, that an impact of this size would result in appalling weather conditions and crop failures at least as severe as those of the 'Year Without a Summer'; 'which followed the 1815 eruption of Indonesia's Tambora volcano. As mentioned in the last chapter, </span>__with even developed countries holding sufficient food to feed their populations for only a month__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> or so, </span>__large-scale crop failures across the planet would undoubtedly have serious implications__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Rationing, at the very least, is likely to be die result, with a worst case scenario seeing </span>__widespread disruption of the social and economic fabric__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of developed nations. In the developing world, where subsistence farming remains very much the norm, </span>__wide-spread failure of the harvests could be expected to translate rapidly into famine on a biblical scale__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Some researchers forecast that as many as </span>__a quarter of the world's population could succumb__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> to a deteriorating climate </span>__following an impact in the 1__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—1.5 </span>__kilometre size range. Anything bigger and photosynthesis stops completely. Once this happens the issue is not how many people will die but whether the human race will survive__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. One estimate proposes that </span>__the impact of an object just 4- kilometres across will inject sufficient quantities of dust and debris into the atmosphere to reduce light levels below those required for photosynthesis__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Because we still don't know how many threatening objects there are out there nor whether they come in bursts, it is almost impossible to say when the Earth will be struck by an asteroid or comet that will bring to an end the world as we know it. Impact events on the scale of the Chicxulub dinosaur-killer only occur every several tens of millions of years, so in any single year the chances of such an impact arc tiny. </span>__Any optimism is__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, however, </span>__tempered by the fact that__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">— should the Shiva hypothesis be true—</span>__the next swarm of Oort Cloud comets could even now be speeding towards the inner solar system__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Failing this, we may have only another thousand years to wait until the return of the dense part of the Taurid Complex and another asteroidal assault. Even if it turns out that there is no coherence in the timing of impact events, </span>__there is__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> statistically </span>__no reason why we cannot be hit next year by an undiscovered Earth-Crossing Asteroid or by a long-period comet that has never before visited the inner solar system__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Small impactors on the Tunguska scale struck Brazil in 1931 and Greenland in 1097, and will continue to pound the Earth every few decades. Because their destructive footprint is tiny compared to the surface area of the Earth, however, it would be very bad luck if one of these hit an urban area, and most will fall in the sea. Although this might seem a good thing, a larger object striking the ocean would be very bad news indeed. A 500-metre rock landing in the Pacific Basin, for example, would generate gigantic tsunamis that would obliterate just about every coastal city in the hemisphere within 20 hours or so. The chances of this happening arc actually quite high—about 1 per cent in the next 100 years—and the death toll could well top half a billion. Estimates of the frequencies of impacts in the 1 kilometre size bracket range from 100,000 to 333,000 years, but the youngest impact crater produced by an object of this size is almost a million years old. Of course, there could have been several large impacts since, which cither occurred in the sea or have not yet been located on land. Fair enough you might say, the threat is clearly out there, but </span>__is there anything on the horizon? Actually, there is__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Some </span>__13 asteroids__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—mostly quite small—</span>__could__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> feasibly </span>__collide with the Earth before 2100.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Realistically, however, this is not very likely as the probabilities involved arc not much greater than 1 in io;ooo— although bear in mind that these arc pretty good odds. </span>__If this was the probability of winning the lottery then my local agent would be getting considerably more__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of my </span>__business__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. There is another enigmatic object out there, however. Of the 40 or so Near Earth Asteroids spotted last year, one — designated 2000SG344—looked at first as if it might actually hit us. The object is small, in the 100 metre size range, and its orbit is so similar to the earth that some have suggested it may be a booster rocket that sped one of the Apollo spacecraft on its way to the Moon. Whether hunk of rock or lump of man-made metal, it was originally estimated that 2000SG344 had a 1 in 500 chance of striking the Earth on 21 September 2030. Again, these may sound very long odds, but they are actually only five times greater than those recently offered during summer 2001 for England beating Germany 5-1 at football. We can all relax now anyway, as recent calculations have indicated that the object will not approach closer to the Earth than around five million kilometres. A few years ago, scientists came up with an index to measure the impact threat, known as the Torino Scale, and so far 2000SG2144 is the first object to register a value greater than zero. The potential impactor originally scraped into category 1, events meriting careful monitoring. Let's hope that many years elapse before we encounter the first category 10 event—defined as 'a certain collision with global consequences'. Given sufficient warning we might be able to nudge an asteroid out of the Earth's way but due to its size, high velocity, and sudden appearance, wc could do little about a new comet heading in our direction. </span>

**No impact can outweigh this—nothing else threatens extinction**
**McGUIRE 2002**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Probably the only piece of good news that can be taken away from my brief look at the end of the world as we know it is that although this is going to happen — and soon—</span>__the survival of our race seems to be assured__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, for now at least. </span>__Leaving aside the possibility of a major comet or asteroid impact__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> on a scale of the dinosaur-killer 65 million years ago— which only happen every few hundred million years—</span>__it is highly unlikely that anything else is going to wipe out every single last one of us__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—all 6 billion plus—</span>__in the foreseeable future. Even__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the replacement of the world with which we have become so familiar with one of </span>__sweltering heat or bitter cold might not seem as scary for__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> those of </span>__our descendants__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> likely to be in the thick of things. After all, </span>__we are a remarkably adaptable species, and can change to match new circumstances__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> with some aplomb. Familiar 'worlds' have certainly ended many times before, as no doubt a centenarian born and raised while Queen Victoria sat on the throne of the United Kingdom, and who lived to sec man land on the moon, would testify. The danger is, however, that the world of our children and those that follow will be a world of struggle and strife with little prospect of, and perhaps little enthusiasm for, progress as the Victorians viewed it. Indeed, it would not be entirely surprising if, at some future time, as the great coastal cities sink beneath the waves or below sheets of ice, the general consensus did not hold that there had been quite enough progress thank you—at least for a while. While I have tried in these pages to extrapolate current trends and ideas to tease out and examine somewhat depressing scenarios for the future of our planet and our race, I am sure that, to some extent at least, you would be justified in accusing me of a failure of the imagination. After all, I have rarely looked ahead beyond a few tens of thousands of years, and yet our Sun will still be bathing our planet in its life-giving warmth for another 5 billion years or more. Who knows, over that incomprehensible length of time, what Homo sapiens and the species that evolve from us will do and become. </span>__Our species__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and those that follow </span>__may be knocked back time and time again in the short term, but__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> provided we learn to nurture our environment rather than exploit it, both here on Earth—before the Sun eventually swallows it up—and later, perhaps, in the solar system and the galaxy and beyond, then </span>__we have the time to do and be almost anything__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Maybe now is the right time to start.</span>

=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Our evidence is comparative—war, environmental destruction, terrorism, and economic collapse are all dwarfed by an asteroid impact**
<span class="Underline">**STEEL 2002** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">- Joule Physics Laboratory, University of Salford (October 24, Duncan, “ Neo Impact Hazard: the Cancer Metaphor ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] pg. 93)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The Cancer Metaphor: Why facing up to hazardous asteroids and comets is like dealing with cancer: (1) </span><span class="Underline">Early identification is vital</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Most cancers need to be picked up very early in their development if they are to be treatable. So it is with NEOs. </span><span class="Underline">We have no time to lose in identifying any potential Earth impactor: there is no phony war with these objects. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(2) Cancer screening (and </span><span class="Underline">NEO surveillance) is cheap The cost of screening is smaller than the cost of treatment, and much less than the cost of doing nothing. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(3) Everyone can be involved in some waySelf-inspection (e.g. for breast, skin or testicular cancer) is simple; but a corollary is that detailed investigations (e.g. for brain tumours) are expensive. Similarly amateur astronomers can provide vital help, although in the end the professionals will need to tackle the job. (4) Identification of a real problem is unlikely Individuals are unlikely to contract specific cancers for which screening is done, but we must aim to check everyone periodically. In the same way </span><span class="Underline">we need to seek out all NEOs, and keep tabs on them. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(5) False alarms are common Any indicator of a potential problem necessitates careful monitoring, and causes considerable worry. But one should be pleased when the tumour proves benign. Precisely the same applies to NEOs: asteroids and comets discovered and initially flagged to be potential impactors but later shown to be sure to miss our planet represent victories on our part. (6) </span><span class="Underline">Tackling any confirmed cancer (NEO impact) is certain to be unpleasant</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> No-one suggests that chemotherapy, radiotherapy or surgical intervention are fun, but they are necessary, as would be the steps employed to divert an NEO, such as the nuclear option. Nor would they be cheap: </span><span class="Underline">butthe cost would be of no consequence</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, as with a serious cancer.(7) Just because we don't yet know the cure for cancer does not mean that we should give up looking and trying.</span><span class="Underline"> Where there is life, there is hope. If we should find an NEO destined by the clockwork of the heavens to impact the Earth</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in the near future (within the next few decades to a century, say</span><span class="Underline">), and using our advanced science and technology we manage to divert it and so save ourselves, this will rank as perhaps the greatest achievement </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">of modern-day civilisation. (8) </span><span class="Underline">Just because there are more significant problems facing the world does not mean that we should ignore this one.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Having a bad cold or influenza does not mean that you should neglect to have the lump in your breast or the suspicious, dark skin blemish on your neck checked out. Another viewpoint would be that </span><span class="Underline">**if there is a substantial NEO due to strike our planetary home soon, then we face no greater problem: not terrestrial disasters, not terrorism, not wars, not disease, not global warming, not unemployment nor economic downturns.** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">The most likely result of a proper study of the impact hazard is that it will go away, because we will find that no impact is due within the foreseeable future. But the converse is also true: </span><span class="Underline">what we now see as a slim chance (low probability of a large impact) may turn into a virtual certainty, which would then supplant our Earthly concerns. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(9) Just because we don't yet know a cure for the common cold does not mean that we cannot find the solution for this disease. Some of the greatest dangers we face on a daily basis have quite simple solutions, like imposing speed limits to cut down road fatalities. Conceptually, </span><span class="Underline">planetary defense against NEO impact is a far simpler problem than, say, trying to stop major earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, or halting a hurricane in its path.</span>

**Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close**
**CHAPMAN 04** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have argued [59] that </span>__impacts must be exceptionally more lethal globally than any other proposed terrestrial causes for mass extinctions because__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of two unique features: (a) </span>__their environmental effects happen essentially instantaneously__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (on timescales of hours to months, during which species have little time to evolve or migrate to protective locations) </span>__and__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (b) </span>__there are compound environmental consequences (e.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">g., broiler-like skies as ejecta re-enter the atmosphere, global firestorm, ozone layer destroyed, earthquakes and tsunami, months of ensuing “impact winter”, centuries of global warming, poisoning of the oceans). </span>__Not only the rapidity of changes, but also the cumulative and synergistic consequences of the compound effects, **make asteroid impact overwhelmingly more difficult for species to survive than alternative crises.** Volcanism, sea regressions, and even sudden effects of hypothesized collapses of continental shelves or polar ice caps are far less abrupt than the immediate (within a couple of hours) worldwide consequences of impact__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; lifeforms have much better opportunities in longer-duration scenarios to hide, migrate, or evolve. The alternatives also lack the diverse, compounding negative global effects. Only the artificial horror of global nuclear war or the consequences of a very remote possibility of a stellar explosion near the Sun could compete with impacts for immediate, species-threatening changes to Earth's ecosystem. </span>__Therefore, since the NEA impacts inevitably happened, it is plausible that they—and chiefly they alone—caused the mass extinctions in Earth's history (as hypothesized by Raup [60]), even though proof is lacking for specific extinctions. What other process could possibly be so effective? And even if one or more extinctions do have other causes, the largest asteroid/comet impacts during the Phanerozoic cannot avoid having left traces in the fossil record.__

=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Evacuation would do nothing**
<span class="Underline">**LEWIS 1996** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">- professor of planetary science at the University of Arizona's Lunar and Planetary Laboratory (John S., Rain of Iron and Ice, p. 183-222)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span><span class="Underline">cost of finding and tracking two-thousand-plus kilometer-sized bodies that cross Earth's orbit is a few million dollars per year. Every estimate of the cost/benefit ratio that I have seen indicates that this is a wise investment. Developing a nearly complete catalog of these larger bodies is also clearly technically feasible</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, since such large bodies are relatively bright and relatively easily found. In fact, we have located about 10 percent of them already. In down-to-Earth terms, </span><span class="Underline">**kilometer-sized bodies are global killers**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">: </span><span class="Underline">they take die lives of a billion people per impact, and strike with explosive powers of one hundred thousand megatons at a mean rate of four impact events per million year</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">s. Thus the long-term average death rate from impacts is four billion people per million years, or four thousand people per year worldwide. The people of the United States make up about 5 percent of the global population, so the average American death rate from global-scale impacts is about two hundred per year. The death rate of American citizens from commercial aircraft crashes is one hunched people per year. </span><span class="Underline">The problem with finding and tracking these very large bodies is that evacuation docs not work: the effects of the disasters are global</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The </span><span class="Underline">leading cause of death is probably famine induced by climate change</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. If such a body hits Earth, </span><span class="Underline">there are no refuges to which people can be relocated</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">Moving away from the computed impact area means selecting a slow death over a quick one.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The </span><span class="Underline">death toll would be very little affected by any plausible relocation effort, since Earth's ability to support life would be universally diminished. Finding, tracking, and predicting the orbits of kilometer-sized bodies is neither technically demanding nor fiscally draining</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">; rather, the problem arises when we ask what we would do with the knowledge. </span><span class="Underline">We can in fact do nothing meaningful to avoid this threat unless we use space technology to divert or destroy the threatening objects.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The prospect of letting one hit our densely populated planet is unacceptable.</span>

**The scarcity of life in the universe proves both the probability and impact of our advantage**
**KAZAN 2011**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Casey, Owner of Galaxy Media LLC and graduate of Harvard University, “Tracking the Realtime Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids &comets- could it save the planet?”, The Daily Galaxy, Feb 8, __[[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)//DT]]__</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Stephen Hawking believes that </span>__one of the major factors in the possible scarcity of intelligent life in our galaxy is the high probability of an asteroid or comet colliding with inhabited planets. We have observed, Hawking points out in Life in the Universe, the collision of a comet, Schumacher-Levi, with Jupiter, which produced a series of enormous fireballs, plumes many thousands of kilometers high, hot "bubbles" of gas in the atmosphere, and large dark "scars" on the atmosphere which had lifetimes on the order of weeks. Shoemaker-Levy 9 was the first comet discovered to be orbiting a planet, Jupiter, instead of the sun.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This enlargement of a 1993 Hubble Space Telescope image above shows the brightest nuclei in a string of approximately 20 objects that comprise Shoemaker-Levy 9 as it hurtled toward its July I994 collision with Jupiter. It is thought </span>__the collision of a rather smaller body with the Earth, about 70 million years ago, was responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs. A few small early mammals survived, but anything as large as a human, would have almost certainly been wiped out.____Through Earth's history such collisions occur, on the average every one million year. If this figure is correct, it would mean that intelligent life on Earth has developed only because of the lucky chance that there have been no major collisions in the last 70 million year__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">s. Other planets in the galaxy, Hawking believes, on which life has developed, may not have had a long enough collision free period to evolve intelligent beings. While NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer, or WISE, is busy surveying the landscape of the infrared sky, building up a catalog of cosmic specimens -- everything from distant galaxies to "failed" stars, called brown dwarfs, closer to home, the NEOWise mission is picking out an impressive collection of asteroids and comets, most of these hang out in the Main Belt between Mars and Jupiter, but a small number are near-Earth objects -- asteroids and comets with orbits that pass within about 48 million kilometers (30 million miles) of Earth's orbit. By studying a small sample of near-Earth objects, WISE will learn more about the population as a whole. How do their sizes differ, and how many objects are dark versus light. "We are taking a census of a small sample of near-Earth objects to get a better idea of how they vary," said Amy Mainzer, the principal investigator of NEOWISE, a program to catalog asteroids seen with WISE. So far, the mission has observed more than 60,000 asteroids, both Main Belt and near-Earth objects, with more than 11,000 are new previously unknown objects.</span> __"Our data pipeline is bursting with asteroids," said WISE Principal Investigator Ned Wright of UCLA. "We are discovering about a hundred a day, mostly in the Main Belt." About 190 near-Earth asteroids have been observed to date, of which more than 50 are new discoveries.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> All asteroid observations are reported to the NASA-funded International Astronomical Union's Minor Planet Center, a clearinghouse for data on all solar system bodies at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.</span>






=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Even if the timeframe is long it’s irrelevant—we should evaluate impacts in a frame of millennia** 
**VERSCHUUR 1996**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is an even more subtle reason why </span>__we are unlikely to take collective and significant action to assure the long-term survival of our species__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It manifests as the psychological syndrome known as </span>__the "illusion of invulnerability." Individuals cannot believe that they will personally succumb in the next catastrophe. This syndrome is at play in those who live happily in earthquake zones,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in </span>__floodplains, or on the sides of active volcanoes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The existence of the syndrome poses a paradox. </span>__If we are concerned about the long-term survival of civilization, we must overcome our genetic predisposition to deal only with the immediate future__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Dealing with short-term issues is natural in all animals, and represents the practical way in which to survive from day to day. However, </span>__this predisposition is not conducive to assuring a long-term existence__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Perhaps that is what is at issue. We have learned much about the natural universe in recent years, and the mind's eye has only just developed the ability to scan millions of years of time. Yet that seems to be no more than an intellectual exercise with little practical use. Perhaps </span>__the evolution of our species may yet depend on whether we can succeed in making very long term plans and carrying them out for the benefit of life on earth. Scientific discovery has brought us to the point where we confront the awesome probability that collision with an earth-crossing object will bring an end to civilization. It is no longer a question of whether a massive impact will occur in the future; it is only a matter of when. Even if we think it will be a thousand years from now, the point of raising the issue is to ask ourselves what we plan to do about it. It may be time to think in terms of thousands of years into the future__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. I am assuming that we care that our species will be around for a long time, and that this question is worth thinking about.</span>

**Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is**
**POSNER 2004** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)</span>
__Even if our insouciant reaction to small probabilities of great losses is accepted as an authentic basis for estimating the value of life in most such situations, the reaction may not generalize to ones in which the loss__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, should it materialize, </span>__would be the near or total extinction of the human race. If the annual probability of an asteroid collision that would kill 6 billion people is only 1 in 75 million, the expected number of deaths worldwide is only 80 per year, which may not seem a large enough number to justify the expense of an effective defense__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">against an asteroid collision. (This of course ignores smaller but still lethal collisions; but read on.) </span>__But if there is a minute chance that the entire human race, both current and future, would be wiped out, together with all or most of the world’s animal population, we__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (the ambiguous “we” of policy analysis, but there it may represent dominant public opinion) </span>__may think that //something// should be done to eliminate or reduce the risk, slight as it is, beyond what a standard cost-benefit analysis would imply__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">; may be willing, if the risk and the possible responses are explained carefully, to incur some cost in higher taxes or otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>

**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end**
**BARBEE 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]])//DT</span>
__It is generally accepted that statistics and probability theory is the best way to handle partial information problem__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">s. Gamblers and insurance companies employ it extensively. </span>__However,____one of the underlying premises is that it is acceptable to be wrong sometimes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. If a gambler makes a bad play, the hope is that the gambler has made more good plays than bad ones and still comes out ahead. </span>__This however is not applicable to planetary defense against NEOs. Being wrong just once may prove fatal to__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">millions of people or to</span> __our entire species. If we trust our statistical estimates of the NEO population and our perceived collision probabilities too much, we risk__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">horrific damage or even</span> __extinction. This is how we must define the limit for how useful probability theory is in the decision-making process for defense against NEOs.__


=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Advantage ­­­____ is accidental war**

**Space-based detection is key to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes**
**DAVID 2002**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Military strategists and space scientists that wonder and worry about a run-in between Earth and a comet or asteroid have additional worries in these trying times. With world tensions being the way they are, </span>__even a small incoming space rock, detonating over any number of political hot-spots, could trigger a country's nuclear response convinced it was attacked by an enemy__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Getting to know better the celestial neighborhood, chock full of passer-by asteroids and comets is more than a good idea. Not only can these objects become troublesome visitors, they are also resource-rich and scientifically bountiful worlds. Slowly, an action plan is taking shape. Noted asteroid and comet experts met here May 23-27, taking part in the National Space Society's International Space Development Conference 2002. Sweat the small stuff Being struck by a giant asteroid or comet isn't the main concern for Air Force Brigadier General Simon Worden, deputy director of operations for the United States Space Command at Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado. He sweats the small stuff. Worden painted a picture of the next steps needed in planetary defense. His views are not from U.S. Department of Defense policy but are his own personal perspectives, drawing upon a professional background of astronomy. For example, Worden said, several tens of thousands of years ago an asteroid just 165-feet (50 meters) in diameter punched a giant hole in the ground near Winslow, Arizona. Then there was the Tunguska event. In June 1908, a massive fireball breached the sky, then exploded high above the Tunguska River valley in Siberia. Thought to be in the range of 165-feet (50 meters) to 330 feet (100 meters) in size, that object created a devastating blast equal to a 5 to 10 megaton nuclear explosion. A similar event is thought to have taken place in the late 1940s in Kazakhstan. </span>__"There's probably several hundred thousand of these 100-meter or so objects__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">...the kind of ones that we worry about," Worden said. However, these are not the big cosmic bruisers linked with killing off dinosaurs or creating global catastrophes. On the other hand, if you happen to be within a few tens of miles from the explosion produced by one of these smaller near-Earth objects, "you might think it's a pretty serious catastrophe," Worden said. "The serious planetary defense efforts that we might mount in the next few decades will be directed at much smaller things," Worden said. Some </span>__80 percent of the smaller objects cross the Earth's orbit__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, "some of which are potentially threatening, or could be in the centuries ahead," he said. Nuclear trigger One set of high-tech military satellites is on special round-the-clock vigil. They perform global lookout duty for missile launches. However, they also spot meteor fireballs blazing through Earth's atmosphere. Roughly 30 fireballs detonate each year in the upper atmosphere, creating equivalent to a one-kiloton bomb burst, or larger, Worden said. "</span>__These things hit every year and look like nuclear weapons. And a couple times a century they actually hit and cause a lot of damage__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">," Worden said. "</span>__We now have 8 or 10 countries around the world with nuclear weapons...and not all of them have very good early warning systems. If one of these things hits__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, say anywhere in India or Pakistan today, </span>__we would have a very bad situation__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. It would be awfully hard to explain to them that it wasn't the other guy," Worden pointed out. Similarly, </span>__a fireball-caused blast over Tel Aviv or Islamabad "could be easily confused as a nuclear detonation and it may trigger a war__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">," Worden said. Meanwhile, now moving through the U.S. Defense Department circles, Worden added, is a study delving into issues of possibly setting up an asteroid warning system. That system could find a home within the Cheyenne Mountain Complex outside Colorado Springs, Colorado. The complex is the nerve center for the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) and United States Space Command missions. Next steps Where do we go from here? </span>__An important step__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Worden said, </span>__is cataloging all of the objects that are potentially threatening, down to those small objects that could hit and destroy a city. To do this type of charting, military strategists now champion a space-based network of sensors__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> that keep an eye on Earth-circling satellites. </span>__These__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> same space sentinels </span>__could__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> serve double-time and </span>__detect small asteroids__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, he said</span>



=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**That would kill billions**
**FORROW ET AL 1998** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A missile launch activated by false warning is thus possible in both U.S. and Russian arsenals. For the reasons noted above, an accidental Russian launch is currently considered the greater risk. Several specific scenarios have been considered by the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization of the Department of Defense.31 </span>__We have chosen to analyze a scenario that falls in the middle range of the danger posed by an accidental attack__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">: the launch against the United States of </span>__the weapons on board a single Russian__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Delta-IV ballistic-missile </span>__submarine__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, for two reasons. First, the safeguards against the unauthorized launch of Russian submarine-based missiles are weaker than those against either silo-based or mobile land-based rockets, because the Russian general staff cannot continuously monitor the status of the crew and missiles or use electronic links to override unauthorized launches by the crews. Second, the Delta-IV is and will remain the mainstay of the Russian strategic submarine fleet.27,32,33 Delta-IV submarines carry 16 missiles. Each missile is armed with four 100-kt warheads and has a range of 8300 km, which is sufficient to reach almost any part of the continental United States from typical launch stations in the Barents Sea.34,ss These missiles are believed to be aimed at "soft" targets, usually in or near American cities, whereas the more accurate silo-based missiles would attack U.S. military installations.36 Although a number of targeting strategies are possible for any particular Delta-IV, it is plausible that two of its missiles are assigned to attack war-supporting targets in each of eight U.S. urban areas. If 4 of the 16 missiles failed to reach their destinations because of malfunctions before or after the launch, then 12 missiles carrying a total of 48 warheads would reach their targets. POTENTIAL CONSEQUENCES OF A NUCLEAR ACCIDENT We assume that eight U.S. urban areas are hit: four with four warheads and four with eight warheads. We also assume that the targets have been selected according to standard military priorities: industrial, financial, and transportation sites and other components of the infrastructure that are essential for supporting or recovering from war. Since lowaltitude bursts are required to ensure the destruction of structures such as docks, concrete runways, steel-reinforced buildings, and underground facilities, most if not all detonations will cause substantial early fallout. Physical Effects Under our model, the numbers of immediate deaths are determined primarily by the area of the "superfires" that would result from a thermonuclear explosion over a city. </span>__Fires would ignite__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> across the exposed area to roughly 10 or more calories of radiant heat per square centimeter, coalescing </span>__into a giant firestorm with hurricane-force winds__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and average air temperatures above the boiling point of water. Within this area, the combined effects of superheated wind, toxic smoke, and combustion gases would result in a death rate approaching 100 percent.3' For each 100-kt warhead, the radius of the circle of nearly 100 percent short-term lethality would be 4.3 km (2.7 miles), the range within which 10 cal per square centimeter is delivered to the earth's surface from the hot fireball under weather conditions in which the visibility is 8 km (5 miles), which is low for almost all weather conditions. We used Census CD to calculate the residential population within these areas according to 1990 U.S. Census data, adjusting for areas where circles from different warheads overlapped.38 In many urban areas, the daytime population, and therefore the casualties, would be much higher. Fallout The cloud of radioactive dust produced by lowaltitude bursts would be deposited as fallout downwind of the target area. The exact areas of fallout would not be predictable, because they would depend on wind direction and speed, but there would be large zones of potentially lethal radiation exposure. With average wind speeds of 24 to 48 km per hour (15 to 30 miles per hour), a 100-kt low-altitude detonation would result in a radiation zone 30 to 60 km (20 to 40 miles) long and 3 to 5 km (2 to 3 miles) wide in which exposed and unprotected persons would receive a lethal total dose of 600 rad within six hours.39 </span>__With radioactive contamination of food and water supplies, the breakdown of refrigeration and sanitation systems, radiation-induced immune suppression, and crowding in relief facilities, epidemics of infectious diseases would be likely__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.40 Deaths Table 1 shows the estimates of </span>__early deaths for each cluster of targets__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in or near the eight major urban areas, with a </span>__total__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of </span>__6,838,000__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> initial deaths. Given the many indeterminate variables (e.g., the altitude of each warhead's detonation, the direction of the wind, the population density in the fallout zone, the effectiveness of evacuation procedures, and the availability of shelter and relief supplies), a reliable estimate of the total number of subsequent deaths from fallout and other sequelae of the attack is not possible. With 48 explosions probably resulting in thousands of square miles of lethal fallout around urban areas where there are thousands of persons per square mile, </span>__it is plausible that these secondary deaths would outnumber the immediate deaths caused by the firestorms__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Medical Care in the Aftermath Earlier assessments have documented in detail the problems of caring for the injured survivors of a nuclear attack: the need for care would completely overwhelm the available health care resources.1-5,41 Most of the major medical centers in each urban area lie within the zone of total destruction. The number of patients with severe burns and other critical injuries would far exceed the available resources of all critical care facilities nationwide, including the country's 1708 beds in burn-care units (most of which are already occupied).42 The danger of intense radiation exposure would make it very difficult for emergency personnel even to enter the affected areas. The nearly complete destruction of local and regional transportation, communications, and energy networks would make it almost impossible to transport the severely injured to medical facilities outside the affected area. After the 1995 earthquake in Kobe, Japan, which resulted in a much lower number of casualties (6500 people died and 34,900 were injured) and which had few of the complicating factors that would accompany a nuclear attack, there were long delays before outside medical assistance arrived.41 FROM DANGER TO PREVENTION Public health professionals now recognize that many, if not most, injuries and deaths from violence and accidents result from a predictable series of events that are, at least in principle, preventable.44,45 </span>__The direct toll that would result from an accidental nuclear attack__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of the type described above </span>__would dwarf all prior accidents in history__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Furthermore, </span>__such an attack, even if accidental, might prompt a retaliatory response resulting in an all-out nuclear exchange__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The World Health Organization has estimated that </span>__this would result in billions of__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> direct and indirect </span>__casualties worldwide.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">4</span>

**Small asteroid strike alone would kill millions**
<span class="Underline">**Worden 2002** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">- United States Space Command, Peterson Air Force Base (October 24, S.P., “ Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (Neo) Threat. ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] pg. 101 )</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Most people know of the Tunguska NEO strike in Siberia in 1908. </span><span class="Underline">An object probably less than 100 meters in diameter struck Siberia, releasing equivalent energy of up to 10 megaton</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">s. Many experts believe </span><span class="Underline">there weretwo other smaller events later in the century</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">— one in Central Asia in the 1940s and one in the Amazon in the 1930s.</span><span class="Underline"> In 1996, our satellite sensors detected a burst over Greenland of approximately 100 kiloton yield</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Had any of these struck over a populated area, thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands might have perished. Experts now tell us that an even worse catastrophe than a land impact of a Tunguskasize event would be</span><span class="Underline"> an ocean impact </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">near a heavily populated shore. The resulting</span><span class="Underline"> tidal wave could inundate shorelines for hundreds of miles and potentially kill millions. **There are hundreds of thousands of objects the size of the Tunguska NEO that come near the earth. We know the orbits of just a few.**</span>

=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Intentional war won’t occur and small conflicts won’t escalate**
**MANDELBAUM 1999** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR, </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Feb 25, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">My argument says, tacitly, that while this point of view, which was widely believed 100 years ago, was not true then, there are reasons to think that it is true now. What is that argument? It is that </span>__major war is obsolete__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. By major war, I mean war waged by the most powerful members of the international system, using all of their resources over a protracted period of time with revolutionary geopolitical consequences. There have been four such wars in the modern period: the wars of the French Revolution, World War I, World War II, and the Cold War. Few though they have been, their consequences have been monumental. They are, by far, the most influential events in modern history. Modern history which can, in fact, be seen as a series of aftershocks to these four earthquakes. So if I am right, then what has been the motor of political history for the last two centuries that has been turned off? This war, I argue, </span>__this kind of war, is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> obsolete; less than impossible, but </span>__more than unlikely__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. What do I mean by obsolete? If I may quote from the article on which this presentation is based, a copy of which you received when coming in, “ Major war is obsolete in a way that styles of dress are obsolete. It is something that is out of fashion and, while it could be revived, there is no present demand for it. </span>__Major war is obsolete in the way that slavery, dueling, or foot-binding are obsolete__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It is a social practice that was once considered normal, useful, even desirable, but that now seems odious. It is obsolete in the way that the central planning of economic activity is obsolete. It is a practice once regarded as a plausible, indeed a superior, way of achieving a socially desirable goal, but that changing conditions have made ineffective at best, counterproductive at worst.” Why is this so? Most simply, the </span>__costs have risen and the benefits__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of major war </span>__have shriveled__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The costs of fighting such a war are extremely high </span>__because of__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the advent in the middle of this century of </span>__nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, but they would have been high even had mankind never split the atom. As for the </span>__benefits__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, these </span>__now seem__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, at least from the point of view of the major powers, modest to </span>__non-existent__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__The traditional motives for warfare are__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in retreat, if not </span>__extinct. War is no longer regarded by anyone__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, probably not even Saddam Hussein after his unhappy experience, </span>__as a paying proposition__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. And as for the </span>__ideas on behalf of which major wars have been waged__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in the past, these </span>__are in steep decline__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Here the collapse of communism was an important milestone, for that ideology was inherently bellicose. This is not to say that the world has reached the end of ideology; quite the contrary. But </span>__the ideology that is now in the ascendant__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, our own, </span>__liberalism, tends to be pacific__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Moreover, I would argue that </span>__three post-Cold War developments have made major war even less likely__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> than it was after 1945. One of these is the rise of </span>__democracy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, for democracies, I believe, tend to be peaceful. Now carried to its most extreme conclusion, this eventuates in an argument made by some prominent political scientists that democracies never go to war with one another. I wouldn’t go that far. I don’t believe that this is a law of history, like a law of nature, because I believe there are no such laws of history. But I do believe there is something in it. I believe there is a peaceful tendency inherent in democracy. Now it’s true that one important cause of war has not changed with the end of the Cold War. That is the structure of the international system, which is anarchic. And realists, to whom Fareed has referred and of whom John Mearsheimer and our guest Ken Waltz are perhaps the two most leading exponents in this country and the world at the moment, argue that that structure determines international activity, for it leads sovereign states to have to prepare to defend themselves, and those preparations sooner or later issue in war. I argue, however, that </span>__a post-Cold War innovation counteracts the effects of anarchy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This is what I have called in my 1996 book, The Dawn of Peace in Europe, </span>__common security__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. By common security I mean a regime of </span>__negotiated arms limits that reduce__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span>__insecurity__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that anarchy inevitably produces by transparency-every state can know what weapons every other state has and what it is doing with them-and </span>__through the principle of defense dominance, the reconfiguration through negotiations of military forces to make them more suitable for defense and less for attack__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Some caveats are, indeed, in order where common security is concerned. It’s not universal. It exists only in Europe. And there it is certainly not irreversible. And I should add that what I have called common security is not a cause, but a consequence, of the major forces that have made war less likely. States enter into common security arrangements when they have already, for other reasons, decided that they do not wish to go to war. Well, the third feature of the post-Cold War international system that seems to me to lend itself to warlessness is </span>__the__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> novel </span>__distinction between__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the periphery and the core, between the </span>__powerful states and the less powerful ones__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This was previously a cause of conflict and </span>__now is far less important__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. To quote from the article again, “ While for much of recorded history local conflicts were absorbed into great-power conflicts, </span>__in the wake of the Cold War, with the industrial democracies debellicised and Russia and China preoccupied with internal affairs, there is no great-power conflict into which the many local conflicts that have erupted can be absorbed. The great chess game of international politics is finished__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, or at least suspended. </span>__A pawn is now just a pawn, not a sentry standing guard against an attack on a king__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”</span>

**No risk of deliberate nuclear war**
**ROTHSTEIN, AUER AND SIEGEL 2004** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Linda, editor, Catherine, managing editor, and Jonas, assistant editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, BAS, November/December, http://www.thebulletin.org/article.php?art_ofn=nd04rothstein) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Is an incoming nuclear missile attack plausible? Yes, but unlikely. </span>__The Cold War is over, and the ballistic missile threat from nuclear-capable nations is extremely minor__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In February 2001, the Defense Intelligence Agency listed Iraq, Iran, and North Korea as "countries of concern" that might someday field long-range, WMD-capable missiles, and Russia and China as nations expanding their long-range missile programs. One presumes </span>__Iraq is now off the list. As to Iran and North Korea, both nations have decent missile capabilities, but Iran cannot strike the United States, and most analysts believe the same about North Korea, despite its boasts__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. On the other hand, North Korea has nuclear material, and Iran is believed to be working toward a nuclear weapons capability. </span>__China has__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a whopping </span>__20__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Dong Feng </span>__missiles that can reach America. (The United States has close to 6,000 operational strategic nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, as the Bulletin's May/June "Nuclear Notebook" reported.) </span>__Russia's capabilities are more comparable to America's__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and Russia is expanding its capabilities, according to the July/August "Nuclear Notebook," </span>__but__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a planned </span>__attack from Moscow is extremely improbable__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Plan: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects including both ground- and space-based tracking measures.**

=4’’’ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**The plan makes effective mitigation possible against all NEOs**
<span class="Underline">**NRC 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
<span class="Underline">Combined ground- and space-based surveys have a number of advantages. Such surveys discover more NEOs of all sizes</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, including a substantial number smaller than 140 meters in diameter. These </span><span class="Underline">combined surveys</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> also </span><span class="Underline">provide more characterization data about the entire NEO population. With both infrared and visible data for most targets, it would be possible to obtain accurate diameter estimates for all objects</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, as well as measurements of their albedos and their surface and thermal properties. </span><span class="Underline">These high-value characterization data could help to guide mitigation campaign studies. Additionally, a dual survey provides much information on the population of objects smaller than 140 meters in diameter</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Space-based sensors would find new objects and facilitate exploration**</span>
**NAC 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">2.1. NEO Search: To implement this recommendation, </span>__the Task Force recommends that NASA immediately initiate a space-based infrared telescopic NEO search project__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as the primary means of meeting the congressionally mandated George E. Brown NEO Survey goal. </span>__NASA was tasked to discover 90 percent of the NEOs larger than 140 meters by the end of 2020__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">as part of the NASA Authorization Act of 2005 (Public Law No. 109-155). Both ground- and space-based options for meeting the George E. Brown, Jr. NEO Survey goals have been investigated. Although NASA should continue to assist state-of -the-art ground-based optical surveys, including those coming on line or planned by other agencies (e.g., PanSTARRS, LSST), one or more </span>__space-based infrared__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (IR) </span>__telescopes__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in an orbit interior to Earth’s (e.g., a Venus-like orbit) </span>__offers several search efficiency advantages. Compared with ground-based optical systems, such space-based systems possess greater discovery efficiency and can more accurately determine the sizes and orbits of potentially threatening objects__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The cost of such a survey asset is comparable to the multiple dedicated ground-based alternatives required, </span>__and will rapidly meet the legislated completion goal (probably within seven years__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">). Additionally, </span>__a space-based survey, with its advantageous observing geometry and frequency, will enable prompt and precise orbit determination of newly discovered NEOs in collaboration with ground-based optical and radar systems, reducing the need for actual deflection campaigns__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. NASA should also examine the additional costs and observing advantages of a pair of such Venus-orbit survey telescopes, both to complete the overall survey more rapidly and aid in collapsing the error ellipse of worrisome NEOs. These enhanced capabilities may further reduce unnecessary launches of in situ tracking or deflection spacecraft. </span>__Although some NEOs are potentially hazardous, their periodic close approaches to Earth also make them among the most accessible objects in the solar system for robotic and human exploration. A space-based IR survey telescope would efficiently find both exploration targets and threatening NEOs currently inaccessible to observation by ground-based systems__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Deflection would be easy**</span>
**BOTTKE et al 2004**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (William F. Bottke, Jr., Southwest Research Institute; Alessandro Morbidelli, Observatoire de la Cˆote d’Azur; Robert Jedicke, University of Hawai’i; Mitigation Of Hazardous Comets And Asteroids, p. 1-2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is now generally accepted that impacts of large NEOs represent a hazard to human civilization. This issue was brought into focus by the pioneering work of Alvarez et al. (1980), who showed that the extinction of numerous species at the Cretaceous–Tertiary geologic boundary was almost certainly caused by the impact of a massive asteroid (at a site later identified with the Chicxulub crater in the Yucatan peninsula) (Hildebrand et al. 1991). Today, the United Nations, the US Congress, the European Council, the UK Parliament, the IAU, NASA, and ESA have all made official statements that describe the importance of studying and understanding the NEO population. In fact, </span>__among all worldwide dangers that threaten humanity, the NEO hazard may be the easiest to cope with, provided adequate resources are allocated to identify all NEOs of relevant size. Once we can forecast potential collisions between dangerous NEOs and Earth, action can be taken to mitigate the potential consequences__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Asteroid risks are unique—it’s the only disaster we can totally avoid**
<span class="Underline">**Morrison 2005** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - NASA Astrobiology Institute (David, “ Defending the Earth Against Asteroids: The Case for a Global Response ” [[http://www.princeton.edu/sgs/publications/sgs/pdf/13%201-2%20Morrision.pdf]] Science and Global Security, 13:87–103 )</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">N</span><span class="Underline">o asteroids have been discovered so far that threaten an impact over the next several centuries. Of course, we can say nothing about possible hits from the undiscovered fraction of the NEA population.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> These </span><span class="Underline">surveys are deemed to be worthwhile because we have the technology, at</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> least in principle, </span><span class="Underline">to deflect a threatening asteroid, given decades of warning. T</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">he </span><span class="Underline">impact hazard is unique in that it is possible to avoid the damage entirely</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In most natural hazard areas, “mitigation” consists of ways to plan for a disaster or to deal with the disaster after it happens. </span><span class="Underline">Only in the case of cosmic impacts can we develop mitigation plans with the objective of avoiding the disaster itself.</span>

=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**The plan spills over to improve all other NEO missions** 
**NAC 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)</span>
__NASA’s NEO research is a “three-dimensional” activity that advances our knowledge in solar system science, human exploration, and Planetary Defense. For a relatively small incremental investment in instrumentation or capability on science or exploration spacecraft, NEO missions designed for one goal can return substantial information useful to NASA’s Planetary Defense activities__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. For example, </span>__Planetary Defense mission goals__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (e.g. precision orbit determination; measurements of mass, density, porosity, and rotation state; investigation of the momentum multiplier; searching for NEO satellites, etc.) </span>__would also fulfill many fundamental scientific and human exploration objectives. In turn, robotic science spacecraft can demonstrate the precise proximity operations and guidance algorithms necessary for precision “slow push” deflection techniques. In preparation for visits by human explorers, investigation of a NEO’s interior structure, physical properties, and stability of surface materials will furnish data useful for other deflection techniques, such as kinetic impact and regolith ablation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 7pt;">Time is a fourth dimension for NEO research. </span><span class="Underline">Early integration of Planetary Defense objectives into NASA’s research and exploration missions provides a cost-effective means to increase the maturity of our technology to meet future impact threats and eliminate duplicate flight missions. Overall, the integration of Planetary Defense investigations into scientific and human exploration missions increases the return from any of NASA’s NEO missions, meeting the needs of managers, policy makers, the science community and the public</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Only NASA can do the plan**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FORTUNO 2007**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(1) </span><span class="Underline">Arecibo Observatory is the world's largest single-aperture telescope. It has been recognized as an Electrical Engineering Milestone</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers </span><span class="Underline">and as a Mechanical Engineering Landmark</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Its visitor center draws 120,000 visitors each year. (2) Arecibo radio astronomy led to the first discovery of planets outside our own solar system, the first discovery of a binary pulsar (resulting in a Nobel Prize), and the first detailed three-dimensional mapping of how galaxies are distributed in the universe. (3) </span><span class="Underline">Arecibo Observatory's planetary radar has unique abilities worldwide for research on</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> our solar system, including </span><span class="Underline">near-Earth asteroids</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Besides their scientific importance, near-Earth asteroids may be both a significant hazard to Earth and a potential source of future resources. (4) Arecibo Observatory is a leading United States laboratory for research on Earth's ionosphere. (5) </span><span class="Underline">Congress has mandated that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration detect, track, catalogue, and characterize near-Earth asteroids and comets</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in order to provide warning and mitigation of the potential hazard of such near-Earth objects to the Earth. </span><span class="Underline">By being on the forefront of basic research involving Near-Earth Objects</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Space Weather, and Global Climate Change, the </span><span class="Underline">Arecibo</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Observatory </span><span class="Underline">is an outstanding resource to Congress and</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to </span><span class="Underline">the American People</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. (6) </span><span class="Underline">The efforts taken to date by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation for detecting and characterizing the hazards of Earth orbit-crossing asteroids and comets are not sufficient</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to the threat posed by such objects to cause widespread destruction and loss of life. (7) </span><span class="Underline">The general welfare and security of the United States require that the unique competence of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in science and engineering systems be directed to detecting, tracking, cataloging, and characterizing near-Earth asteroids and comets. The Arecibo Observatory is an invaluable and unique asset in warning and mitigating potential hazards posed by near-Earth objects</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**NASA is key**
**NAC 2010**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)</span>
__For more than a decade, NASA has been searching for__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> near-Earth objects (</span>__NEOs) that may pose a potential impact threat__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to Earth. Both the legislative and executive branches are considering what role NASA may play in expanding its NEO search and developing the capability to prevent or mitigate a future impact. </span>__The space agency has broad expertise in scientific exploration and characterization of near-Earth asteroids__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (NEAs) </span>__and comets__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (NECs), </span>__and NASA’s deep space operations experience could enable the development of deflection technologies to be used to divert a NEO threatening an impact__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

=ASTEROIDS 1AC= 

**Advance warning is key to prevent nuclear deflection which would destroy the Outer Space Treaty—it also prevents extremism and panic**
**BRANDENBURG 2011**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (John E. Brandenburg is a plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies in Madison Wisconsin, working on space plasma technologies and space propulsion, “Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis,” Astronomical Review, May 16, http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis)</span>
__The detection of a large asteroid on a collision course with earth is inevitable and could create an unprecedented crisis in human affairs__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. We live in a dangerous cosmos that doles out death as well as life. </span>__Asteroid impacts are the one danger that humanity faces which has the potential to wipe it out__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The demise of the dinosaurs by the Chixulube impact stands as example of what happens to species faced with the asteroid threat, who have neither the perception, the capability, or the organization to rise to such a challenge. Such an asteroid crisis will test humanity’s abilities across the full spectrum : its telescope and space technology, its ability to determine the characteristics , orbit, and impact area of the asteroid, and thus its time- to-impact, its ability to prepare whatever countermeasures are required, from simple direct impactor or nuclear rockets or weapons, and finally to government and societal reaction. I explored this type of crisis mentally by writing a technically accurate novel about it. In the novel I explored the dramatic case of a Chicxlube class impactor discovered with only a year’s warning. </span>__It is one thing to solve such a problem in the abstract; it is another to sit mentally in impact zone__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__Telescopes and space technologies give us an advantage__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> over the dinosaurs in survival. </span>__We have the ability to map surrounding asteroids and plot their size, characteristics and orbits. The orbit of an identified impactor gives us the all important time-to-impact and its impact zone on Earth. The size and characteristics of the asteroid will yield information on the damage of the projected impact and the range of required countermeasures__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It is as possible the asteroid that triggers this future crisis will be discovered by an amateur in his backyard as by a government controlled space telescope, so controlling public knowledge may be difficult. </span>__Of the important parameters such a newly discovered impactor probably none is more important than the time-to-impact__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The time-to-impact for an impactor is so important </span>__because all countermeasures require time and careful study__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The time-to-impact for positively indentified impactor will probably be of the order of years, longer than this and the orbit itself cannot be predicted accurately and shorter than this is very unlikely given our present knowledge of the near-Earth-asteroid population. Fortunately, larger, and therefore more massive asteroids, are easier to detect, so the worst case scenario of a large asteroid found only shortly before impact is the least likely. However, it can be said that </span>__the shorter the time to impact and the more massive the asteroid, the more severe will be the crisis that ensues and the more extreme the countermeasures required against it__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__Countermeasures__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> against positively identified impactor of significant size </span>__are__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ultimately </span>__complicated by the Outer Space Treaty__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of 1967. For small asteroids, </span>__with long warning times, the impact of a space probe may be sufficient to nudge it out of a dangerous orbit. However, for large asteroids,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> particularly those </span>__with short warning times, nuclear weapons will immediately appear on the table of options__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This creates problems with the Outer Space Treaty of 1967. </span>__The Treaty__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, signed and ratified by the US and every other space capable nation has two important clauses 1. It forbids claims of national sovereignty over any heavenly body or region of space. 2. It </span>__forbids the presence and use of nuclear weapons in space__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Technically then, no nation may have the right to change the orbit of an asteroid, since this would assert sovereignty. </span>__It is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> also </span>__certainly forbidden to use nuclear weapons to try to deflect or destroy such an impactor. It would be best if exceptions to the Treaty were negotiated__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> beforehand to cover asteroid contingencies, </span>__however, such negotiations have not even begun and would take years. If an asteroid crisis begins tomorrow, the treaty may simply be__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ignored or </span>__declared void__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Governments may simply decide to pick up the pieces of the 1967 Treaty afterwards. Government action and societal reaction are two areas needing study in preparation for an asteroid crisis. It does little good if warning was given and countermeasures are available, if the nation or nations affected are too dysfunctional to make use of them. </span>__Panic, paranoia, paralysis, despair, doomsday cults, terrorism, and incompetence become deadly hazards in an asteroid crisis__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Surviving a severe asteroid crisis will require not just technical skill but true statecraft. </span>__However, all these problems can be solved. The key to dealing with a future asteroid crisis is to foresee and prepare for one__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>