[[toc]]
=K Affs= 

==Util== 
===1NC=== 

**Every life is an end in and of itself – All lives are infinitely valuable, the only ethical option is to maximize the number saved**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cummisky 96</span> (David, professor of philosophy at Bates, “Kantian Consequentialism”, p. 131)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__even if one grants that saving two persons … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">more persons with dignity who are saved, the better.8</span>

**Exclusion is a reason to vote neg – They advocate that the group they save is more important than the rest of humanity – Since all lives are equal, you should treat them that way by protecting the greatest number**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dworkin 77</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Law and Philosophy at New York University (Ronald 1977, “Taking Rights Seriously” pg 274-5)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The liberal conception of equality sharply limits the extent … …everyone to be treated with equal concern and respect.</span>

**Extinction destroys all human aspiration – Claims to outweigh it destroy value to life**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schell 82</span> (Jonathan, Visiting professor of liberal studies at Harvard University, “Fate of the Earth”)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the generations that now have to decide whether or not … …</span>__future generations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and let human life go on.</span>

**Their moral tunnel vision is complicit with the evil they criticize**
**Issac 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Political Science at Indiana-Bloomington, Director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, PhD from Yale (Jeffery C., Dissent Magazine, Vol. 49, Iss. 2, “Ends, Means, and Politics,” p. Proquest)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As a result, the most important political questions are simply not asked… …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> And it undermines political effectiveness.</span>

**Preventing extinction saves more people than any other option – they doom __hundreds of billions__ of future lives**
**Bostrom 11 –** Professor of Philosophy at Oxford
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, “The Concept of Existential Risk,” [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One gets a large number even if one confines one’s consideration … …</span><span class="Underline">the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action.</span>

**Dogmatic adherence to principle ensures that their ethic will never be politically useful or change society**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Minteer 4</span> **(**Ben, Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, 17: 131-156, ebsco)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this paper, we have attempted to provide the outlines of </span>__… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">meaningful and enduring contributions to these critical public processes. </span>

<span class="TagandCiteChar">**Utilitarianism is inevitable even in deontological frameworks**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green 2</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Assistant Professor Department of Psychology Harvard University (Joshua, November 2002 "The Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Truth About Morality And What To Do About It", 314)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Some people who talk of balancing rights may think there is an algorithm … …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">an esoteric sort of way or covertly consequentialist.</span>

**Overriding rights is justified to protect a greater amount of rights**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kateb 92</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Politics Emeritus at Princeton University (George, Cornell University Press; “The Inner Ocean: Individualism and Democratic Culture” pg 12)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">One can even think, against utilitarianism, that any substantive outcome … … are also not wrong if they resist being sacrificed. </span>

**Trade-offs are inevitable – Util is the only way to resolve competing moral values**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bailey 97</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (James Wood 1997; “Oxford University Press; “Utilitarianism, institutions, and Justice” pg 9) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A consequentialist moral theory can take account of this variance … … ignore them as if we lived in an ideal world. </span>

**Incomplete information about every effected individual makes util the only option for policymakers**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goodin 95</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Philosophy at the Research School of the Social Sciences at the Australian National University (Robert E., Cambridge University Press, “Utilitarianism As a Public Philosophy” pg 63)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">My larger argument turns on the proposition that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… …tailored to peculiarities of individuals or situations. </span>


==Borgz== 

i am putting this here because I don't know where else to put it

===1NC=== 

**Your aff is wrong, wrong, wrong.**
<span class="Underline">**Cohen 2K –** Department of Religious Studies at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, “Ethics and cybernetics: Levinasian reflections”, Ethics and Information Technology 2: 27–35, dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">There is a peculiar irony about </span>Introna’s argument<span style="font-size: 5pt;">… … in Western spirituality, </span><span class="Underline">but a </span>quantitative development<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>


=Warming Advantages= 

==1NC== 

Warming wont cause total extinction

CAS 10 (California Academy of Sciences, “Warming & Mammal Biodiverstiy”, May 24, Science Today Beyond the Headlines, http://www.calacademy.org/sciencetoday/warming-mammal-biodiversity///umich-mp)//
//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Global warming</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> probably </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">won’t cause</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">the</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">total extinction</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">… …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">landscape have yet witnessed as a specie</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">s</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">,” she said. </span>//

//Studies are wrong//
//Idso, Idso and Idso 3 (Sherwood, Craig and Keith, Keith, Vice Pres. Ctr Study CO2 and Global Change, Ph.D. in Botany @ ASU, won several top awards while instructing students in biological and botanical laboratories and lectures at ASU, and Craig, Chrmn Brd of Ctr for Study CO2 & Global Change, Ph.D. in Geog. ASU, “The Spector of Species Extinction: Will Global Warming Decimate Earth’s Biosphere?”, Marshal Institute, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/150.pdf//umich-mp)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">IV. Our Appraisal of the Root et al. (2003) Study </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Root</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">… … their Tier 1 studies and then their Tier 2 studies. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The highest estimates of deaths from disease only go up to tens of millions**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ball 2006</span>** (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, [[http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf]])

<span class="Underline">The World Health Organisation (WHO) warned in April 2005 … … Some estimates of possible deaths are over 50 million.41 </span>

Warming wont lead to complete extinction
Green 11 (Roedy, PHD from British Colombia, “Extinction of Man”, http://mindprod.com/environment/extinction.html//umich-mp)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">Mankind is embarking on a strange ecological experiment… ..</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">That is not complete extinction</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__
Plants wont go extinct- they will adapt to any temperature changes
Lingle 4 (Christopher, professor of economics at Universidad Francisco Marroquin and a Scholar at the Centre for Civil society in New Delhi, “Higher CO2, More Global Warming, and Less Extinction”, Freeman, [[http://www.thefreemanonline.org/featured/higher-co2-more-global-warming-and-less-extinction/umich-mp|http://www.thefreemanonline.org/featured/higher-co2-more-global-warming-and-less-extinction///umich-mp]])
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">It is widely believed that humans exert</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">… …</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">provides them with protection against heat stress. </span>__

=Solar Storms Advantages= 

==1NC Cards== 

**No major impact to a solar flare – newest governmental studies prove – their worst-case scenario thinking is __not__ justification for policy**
**Parsons 12/22/11** – writer for National Defense
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dan, “Report: Solar Flares Unlikely to Spark Electrical Armageddon,” <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=626]]</span>, dml)</span>

__Energy from solar flares can … … collapse of the grid__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the report concludes. </span>

**Alt cause – solar radio – they’re undetectable, unpredictable and knock out infrastructure anyways**
**Pappas 12/7/11 –** writer for Live Science
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephanie, “Solar weather forecasting vital as sun gears up for wild ride,” <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45589793/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.TvX0UdRAa8A|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45589793/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.TvX0UdRAa8A]]</span>, dml)</span>

__Not all solar disruptions can be predicted__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… …</span>__fundamental physics that we don't understand__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

=Bio-D Advantages= 

==No Extinction - 1NC== 

Prefer extinction level impacts – Biodiversity wont cause extinction
Nick <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom,</span> Professor, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2002,</span> “Existential Risks
Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Existential risks are distinct from global endurable risks… …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">many individuals and for persecuted ethnic groups.)</span>

Deforestation and Species Extinction make the impact inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cardillo, 6 </span>– Dr. Marcel Cadillo Proffesor in the Biology Divison at Imperial College London (2006, Dr. Marcel Cadillo, “Disapearing Forests and Biodiversity Loss: Which areas should we protect?” International Forestry Review, Vol. 8, pp. 251-255 CS)

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Using this method it has been predicted… … where many species appear particularly extinction-prone.</span>

Current Climate trends make Biodiversity loss inevitable
The European Commision, 8 (7/17/08, The European Commisson, “Planning for the inevitable: the impact of climate change on biodiversity,” The European Commission DG ENV, News Alert Issue 116 CS)

Climate change is already having an impact on habitats and … … especially in treasured landscapes<span class="Underline">.</span>

=Heg Advantages= 

==Heg Bad== 

===1NC=== 

FIRST, Uniqueness – decline is inevitable – new powers, economic, military and political constraints
Christopher **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Layne</span>__**, professor, and Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, Summer 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">9</span>__**, “The Waning of U.S. Hegemony—Myth or Reality?”, International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Project Muse, umn-rks
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For an overview of trends that could affect international politics … …</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> has been accustomed to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> having since 1945 (ibid.).</span>
SECOND, Defense
# a. Can’t block new powers
**__<span style="color: black;">Layne</span>__** (Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M) <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">‘0</span>**__<span style="color: black;">6</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[</span>Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to Present, Cornell<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> University Press (Ithica), p. 176-177]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A second contention advanced by proponents of American hegemony … …for economic reasons (and, probably, for any reason).</span>
# b. Maintaining heg creates their scenarios
**__<span style="color: black;">Layne</span>__** (Professor of Political Science, Likely a Genius) **__<span style="color: black;">‘06</span>__**
[Christopher, “The Unipolar Illusion Revisited”, International Security, Vol. 31, No. 2, p. asp]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The United States enjoys no privileged exemption from the fate … … offshore balancing, indeed, is America's next grand strategy.</span>

=Economy Advantages= 

==Dedev - 1NC== 


FIRST, Sustainability – **Growth cannot continue exponentially – we need to end it now to solve an environmental crisis – tech can’t solve and neither does space**
**Brent 7/18** – frequent contributor to Countercurrents, expert on population issues
(Jason, “Cessation Of Growth: Voluntary And Coercive Population Control,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.countercurrents.org/brent180711.htm</span>, dml)
<span style="color: black;">6. </span><span class="Underline">Since</span><span style="color: black;"> compound/</span><span class="Underline">exponential growth is so powerful</span><span style="color: black;">… …</span><span class="Underline"> humanity to extraterrestrial planets is a non-workable fallacy</span><span style="color: black;">.</span>


SECOND, Timeframe – collapse now is key to prevent extinction

Glen **__Barry__**, Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development", 1/14/0**__8__**, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology”, Counter Currents, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm, umn-rks

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Humanity and the Earth are faced with an enormous conundrum</span> … …sabotage to hasten the day. It is more fragile than it looks.



THIRD, Decline won’t cause war

Daniel **__Deudney__**, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton, April 19**__91__**, “Environment and Security: Muddled Thinking”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, p. 27, google books, umn-rks

Poverty Wars. In a second scenario, declining living standards … …<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">specialized industrial products and surplus wealth</span>.

FOURTH, Dedev ends all war and violence

Ted **__Trainer__**, Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the School of Social Work, University of New South Wales, 19**__95__**, The Conserver Society, p. 165

If the foregoing analysis is valid… …<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> knowing no one has any desire to threaten you</span>.


=Space Mil Neg= 

I'm including all the militarization stuff here - a lot of the affs overlap so I'm just putting frontlines and stuff in; specific solvency stuff will be included
==Space Power Advantage== 

===1NC=== 

**Space dominance does not assure dominance on Earth**
<span class="Underline">**Hardesty 05**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Captain David C. Hardesty was a member of the US Navy and is an expert in Law. He is also a journalist for the Navy Law Review, “Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives”, Naval War Coll Newport, Defense Technology Information Center, 2005, pg online @ [[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA521114%20/|http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA521114 //]] sc)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Everett </span><span class="Underline">Dolman argues that the downsides of space-basing weapons … …**if an enemyshifts the terms of the engagement.**</span>


**US weaponization decreases soft power- Sputnik proves**
**Coffelt 2k5**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher A. Coffelt is the vice commander of the Minot Air Force Base, served in a variety of space and missile operations, staff, and leadership assignments. Served as a senior ICBM flight commander/instructor, political-military officer on the Secretary of Defense's Bosnia Task Force, space and missile force programmer on the Air Staff, served at the Defense Threat Reduction Agency as the Chief, numerous awards , “The Best Defense: Chartering the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy”, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Defense Information Technology Center, June 05, pg online @ [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a477110.pdf.%20/|http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a477110.pdf. //]] sc)</span>
__Weaponizing space also decreases the__ __united__ __states____’ ability … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">preference for positive action and offensive solutions.</span>

**Space weapons wont deter conflict- nuclear weapons prove**

**Coffelt 2k5**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher A. Coffelt is the vice commander of the Minot Air Force Base, served in a variety of space and missile operations, staff, and leadership assignments. Served as a senior ICBM flight commander/instructor, political-military officer on the Secretary of Defense's Bosnia Task Force, space and missile force programmer on the Air Staff, served at the Defense Threat Reduction Agency as the Chief, numerous awards , “The Best Defense: Chartering the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy”, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Defense Information Technology Center, June 05, pg online @ [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a477110.pdf.%20/|http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a477110.pdf. //]] sc)</span>
__Just as__ __us advantages in nuclear weapons … …any more than present weapon systems do____.__


**SBIs are ineffective, vulnerable to ASATs, and easy to overwhelm**
**Grego and Wright, 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– *Laura, senior scientist in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, **David, senior scientist and co-director of the UCS Global Security Program (“Securing the Skies,” Union of Concerned Scientists, Nov. 2010, www.ucsusa.org/securingtheskies)**</span>Red
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">If such a large system were built and the technology worked perfectly… …</span></span>
__defeated by a handful of enemy missiles____.__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">64</span>**

Space weapons will create nuclear preemption incentives before deployment can be completed
Englehart, 8** – patent litigation attorney (Alex, “COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE TREATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS,” 17 Pac. Rim L. & Pol'y J. 133, lexis)

D. An Effective U.S. Space Weapons Deployment Would … …drive it further away from the United States.
==Weaponization Not Inevitable== 

===1NC=== 

**Weaponization not inevitable**
**a. Inherent checks**
**Mueller, 6**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Karl, PhD and Political Scientist @ RAND, “Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408, EMM) Note: These paragraphs are from a section addressing common misconceptions about space. Thus, the opening sentence “Space is already so militarized that weaponizing it won’t be a big deal” is a statement the author is attempting to refute.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">2. Space is already so militarized that weaponizing … … in political terms as well as technological terms.</span>

**b. No motivation or ability**
**Hitchens, 3**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Theresa, Director of the Center for Defense Information, “ Monsters and Shadows: Left Unchecked, American Fears Regarding Threats to Space Assets Will Drive Weaponization,” Disarmament Forum No1, Accessed on Spacedebate.com, [[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/1222/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is obvious that American space systems do have … …capabilities of others necessarily translate into threats. </span>

**c.** **Cooperation solves**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The United States’ approach to secure and protect the space domain … …</span>__potential adversaries from attacking space systems__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**d. code of conduct now**
**Foust, 11 -** Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of The Space Review, industry professional and reporter, 6/27/11 (“The national space policy, one year later,” The Space Review, Accessed online at [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1873/1]], Accessed on 7/11/11)

__One major difference widely cited between … …about aspects of the proposed code of conduct.__

==Brilliant Pebbles Solvency== 

===1NC=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">BP fails- every impact creates enormous debris, killing reliability of the system</span>
<span class="cite">Globalsecurity.org 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (January 11 2010, “Chinese Anti-Satellite [ASAT] Capabilities and ABM Capability” http://www.globalsecurity.org/space/world/china/asat.htm SG)</span>
<span class="underline">In</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span class="underline">novel study</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="underline">Westwood showed … …</span> ever-more ruinous of the <span style="font-size: 8pt;">jth</span>"pebble's" reliability .


==Eden Prairie's Conflict Escalation Thing== 

===North Korea - 1NC=== 

**North Korea won’t attack- even if they did it wouldn’t escalate**
**Swami 10**- Diplomatic editor of telegraph.co.uk
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Praveen, “Why North Korean strike will not trigger world war three,”11/23/10, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/8154274/Why-North-Korean-strike-will-not-trigger-world-war-three.html]], CJC)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea is one of the engines of Asian prosperity… …</span>__after both countries tested their nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===Nagorno-Karabakh/Central Asia - 1NC=== 

Times have changed --- Blank now thinks escalation extremely unlikely
Blank ‘02
(Stephen, Prof Strategic Studies Institute, The Future of Transcaspian Security, August, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB111.pdf)
<span class="Style4Char">**Recent**</span> American and <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">NATO agreements with Russia</span> … …<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">now enjoy Russian cooperation and support</span>.

Conflicts don’t escalate
(A) Economic interests and foreign influence.
Olga Oliker (Senior International Policy Analyst RAND) and Thomas S. Szayna. (Associate Director, Strategy, Doctrine, and Resource Program at the RAND Arroyo Center). "Faultllines of Conflict in Central Asia and the South Caucasus." Rand. 2005. http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/RAND_MR1598.pdf
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">All that said</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">there are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">other </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">factors …… and may do so again in the future. </span></span>
(B) Resources
Olga Oliker (Senior International Policy Analyst RAND) and Thomas S. Szayna. (Associate Director, Strategy, Doctrine, and Resource Program at the RAND Arroyo Center). "Faultllines of Conflict in Central Asia and the South Caucasus." Rand. 2005. http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/RAND_MR1598.pdf
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">It is therefore highly likely that coming years …… will also temper the likelihood of conflict</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. </span></span>

===Accidental Launch - 1NC=== 

FIRST, No risk of Accidents for US or Russia
__<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Dr. Leonid </span>__Ryabikhin__<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (Executive Secretary, Committee of Scientist for Global Security and Arms Control; Senior Fellow, EastWest Institute), General (Ret.) Viktor </span>__Koltunov __<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Deputy Director, Institute for Strategic Stability of Rosatom), and Dr. Eugene </span>__Miasnikov__<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (Senior Research Scientist, Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies) “De-alerting: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Strategic Nuclear Forces” Discussion paper presented at the seminar on “Re-framing De-Alert: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Nuclear Weapons Systems in the U.S.-Russia Context” in Yverdon, Switzerland, 21-23 June 20</span>__09__<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">. http://www.ewi.info/system/files/RyabikhinKoltunovMiasnikov.pdf</span>__
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Most of the experts define de-alerting as implementing some … … proper measures to observe the agreed requirements.</span>
Second, No Hair Trigger—locks and discipline prevent accidents
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Walter B. **Slocombe**, J.D. Harvard Law, Former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy and Senior advisor for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, 21-23 June 20**09**, “De-Alerting: Diagnoses, Prescriptions, and Side-Effects*” Discussion paper presented at the seminar on “Re-framing De-Alert: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Nuclear Weapons Systems in the U.S.-Russia Context” in Yverdon, Switzerland http://www.ewi.info/system/files/Slocombe.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Whatever other problems </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the current nuclear posture</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">… … the result will not be a nuclear explosion.</span>
Third, No escalation: Norway incident proves
Bailey, ’98__<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> [Kathleen, Senior Fellow, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, August, www.nipp.org/CTBT/5.htm]</span>__

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The United States and Russia have satellite-and ground-based systems … …</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> event that it was actually an attack.</span>



=SPS Neg= 

==Warming/Energy Advantage== 
===1NC=== 

SPS can’t solve warming – existing CO2
Mark **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hempsell</span>__**, senior lecturer in space technology at the University of Bristol, Acta Astronautica, Volume 59, Issue 7, October 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">6</span>__**, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576506001755

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The key contributor to global warming gases is … …few decades of heavy dependence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on energy from fossil fuels.</span>

SSP is inefficient for energy
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roy </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wood</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 6/10/</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Space-Based Solar Power: An Overview”, http://www.wired.com/geekdad/2011/06/space-based-solar-power-an-overview/, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are many avenues of research … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to make the concept of orbital solar power practical.</span>

Can’t convert the energy
Donald **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rapp</span>__**, former professor, Fellow of the American Physical Society, and independent contractor for NASA, 2/18/0**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span>__**, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources”, http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Several technologies could be employed for converting … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">very-low-cost mass production of these elements.</span>


==Debris Turn== 

===1NC=== 

SSP requires 100,000 launches to build
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Al </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Globus</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, space settlement advocate, Spring 0</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “On The Moon”, AdAstra: The Magazine of the National Space Society, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While it has been suggested that in the long term… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> two major issues with a very high launch rate.</span>


That causes space debris
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kennewell</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 200</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Overview of Orbital Space Debris”, Australian Government: IPS Radio and Space Services, http://www.ips.gov.au/Educational/4/2/1, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> initial and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">continuing source of space debris … … become a new source of space debris</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Debris turns case
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cesar </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jaramillo</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, managing editor at Project Ploughshares, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">et. all</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, August 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Space Security 2010”, Space Security Index, http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space is a harsh environment and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">orbital debris … …against objects bigger than a few centimeters</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===2NC=== 

AND, it’s 280 launches per satellite – this means plan takes 8 years for each satellite
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Donald </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rapp</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, former professor, Fellow of the American Physical Society, and independent contractor for NASA, 2/18/0</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources”, http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A number of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> alternate </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">SPS designs have evolved </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> require 6,000 years to establish the entire fleet of SPS</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Debris turns case – can’t build the satellites
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Donald </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rapp</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, former professor, Fellow of the American Physical Society, and independent contractor for NASA, 2/18/0</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources”, http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Relatively </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">little work has been done on assembly … …the SPS seem to imply assembly in LEO</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===AT: Inflatables=== 

**Inflatable structures risk destruction in space**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steve </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tung</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, et all, 200</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “A MEMS-based flexible sensor and actuator system for space inflatable structures”, Vol. 10, No. 6, http://iopscience.iop.org/0964-1726/10/6/312, umn-rks </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Inflatable</span>and other membrane structures are expected … …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> remove `wrinkles' and dampen structural vibration.</span>

**Inflatable structures don’t work in space – not tested – debris turns them**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ken </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Higuchi, associate professor</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at ISAS </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in the Department of Space Structure and Materials,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">200</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">7</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Space Inflatable Structures”, http://www.isas.ac.jp/e/forefront/2006/higuchi/index.shtml, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space inflatable structures cannot maintain their shape … … are the key to the broader use of space inflatable structures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


the part of their article after it’s cut says it won’t work if it’s big enough to solve
Trevor **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown</span>__**, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC Author</span>__**, 6/1/0**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span>__**, “SSP: a spherical architecture”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">for large systems, pieces of the sphere … …NSSO SSP study before the project could be undertaken</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>