aff - [[mailto:natalieknez@gmail.com|natalieknez@gmail.com]]
neg - [[mailto:singerems@gmail.com|singerems@gmail.com]]



=Affirmative= 


==TOC 1AC Asteroids Advantage== 
<span class="Underline">**Debris makes terrestrial vision and asteroid monitoring possible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**U.S. Congress 90**</span> (September, U.S. Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, “Orbiting Debris: A Space Environmental”, pg.13-17, <span style="color: black;">http://www.fas.org/ota/reports/9033.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Space debris can interfere with scientific, commercial, and military space activities. In some orbits, debris deposited today may affect these activities far in the future. This section describes the hazards posed by orbital debris and summarizes how they are generated. Functioning spacecraft face a variety of potential hazards from orbital debris: Space debris can interfere with scientific</span>


**The development of lasers increases the capability to detect and deflect asteroids** 

<span class="Underline">**Campbell 2000**</span> (Jonathan W. Campbell. Colonel, USAER, Occasional Paper No. 20, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College, “Using Lasers in Space: Laser Orbital Debris Removal and Asteroid Deflection”, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/csat20.pdf) 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Technology Demonstration</span>


**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**

**Verschuur, 96** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, the comet impact scenario has taken on a life of its own and the danger of asteroids has been added to the comet count. In the context of heightened interest in the threat, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">reassuring predictions have been offered about the likelihood of</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> a civilization-destroying </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">impact</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> in the years to come. Without exception, the </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">scientists who have recently offered odds have been careful in making any statement</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. They have acted in a "responsible" manner and left us with a feeling that the threat is not worth worrying </span>


**It’s the only existential risk** 

**McGuire 2** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to what happened </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">off the coast of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> 65 million years earlier. Here </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">a 10-kilometre asteroid</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> or comet—its exact nature is uncertain—crashed into the sea and </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">changed our world forever. Within microseconds, an unimaginable explosion released as much energy as billions of Hiroshima bombs detonated simultaneously, creating a titanic fireball hotter than the Sun </span>__



===[[#Affirmative-1AC Greenhill-Inherency]]Inherency=== 

**Contention one is inherency —**

**Satellite-threatening space debris has reached a tipping point and is increasing exponentially — status quo measures fail**
**The Guardian 9/1/11 –** “Space junk rising exponentially” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2011/sep/01/space-junk-rising-exponentially-earth]]
<span class="Underline">The amount of **junk in …** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">avoid something else," Kessler said.</span>

**Miniscule space debris short circuits satellites even without collisions**
**Natalie**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pusey, </span>**2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, [21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425] Spring, 2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space debris causes a variety of … </span>__obscure ground-based astronomical observation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**No disads - 30 new NASA projects were just funded including debris air guns**
**VOA 8/9/1 1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– “Visionary Ideas Could Transform Future NASA Missions” Lexis</span>
__NASA__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the U.S. space agency, </span>__has …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">them into a future space mission.</span>

**Plus, there is funding for tracking now and it will increase**
**Science Insider** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">2/14</span>**/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2011, Andrew Lawler and Sara Reardon, “Climate Science, Asteroid Detection Big Winners in NASA Budget”,[[http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/02/climate-science-asteroid-detection.html)/DT|http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/02/climate-science-asteroid-detection.html)//DT]]</span>
__NASA will have to live … observations would quadruple to $20.4 million__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===[[#Affirmative-1AC Greenhill-Economy Advantage]]Economy Advantage=== 

**Contention two is the economy —**

**Global economic growth will slow but won’t hit outright recession now**
**Dadush, 8-11**-11 – Uri – Senior associate & Director @ Carnegie’s International Economics Program. “Averting Another Global Recession.” Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/08/11/averting-another-global-recession/4n1o#3|http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/08/11/averting-another-global-recession/4n1o#3]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why has the global economic … </span>__fall off the edge soon__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**There are three internal links**

**First is BANKING – Space debris knocks out satellites that are vital to banking and interrupts power grids**
Megan **Ansdell, ’10** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,”[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].
__There are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> currently </span>__hundreds of … interrupt electric power grids__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Logsdon 2001). </span>

**Banking is vital to growth – multiple experts conclude it’s reverse-causal and affects every sector**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pierre </span>**Monnin &**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Terhi </span>**Jokipii, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Swiss National Bank, Financial Market Analysis and Financial Stability analysts. “The Impact of Banking Sector Stability on the Real Economy,” June, [[http://www.ecb.int/events/conferences/shared/pdf/cfs/monnin.pdf?bb16a0e5bec85708efdb7ff480cd5a7f]], p. 3-4. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The increased incidence of banking … to further improve economic forecasts.</span>

**Second is GPS – GPS is key to heg, innovation, jobs, the economy, exports, and trade**
**Pham, 11** – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” [[http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf]])
__The commercial stakes are high__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. … (consumer oriented) or military users. </span>

**THIRD is the SPACE INDUSTRY –**

**One debris collision causes space operators to pull out of the market**
**Space Daily, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (August 31, 2009, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]], Space Daily)</span>
__Upper stages must vent tanks … even calculable.__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">This is scary!</span>

**The satellite industry is critical – it’s key to jobs and global commerce – blips will be felt globally**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fifty years after their introduction, </span>__… to reverberate throughout multiple nations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

**Global economic crisis creates several motives for global war – their defense doesn’t have nearly the same statistical support**
**Royal, ‘10**. Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215.
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>**

**Economic decline causes all conflicts to escalate – terrorism, proliferation, resource conflicts and nuclear wars**
**Harris and Burrows,’9****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Mathew = Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council and Jennifer = Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses … </span>__a more dog-eat-dog world.__

===[[#Affirmative-1AC Greenhill-Hegemony Advantage]]<span class="Underline">Hegemony Advantage</span>=== 

**Contention three is hegemony —**

**Space debris destroys critical space assets — that causes terrorism, challengers, and surprise WMD launches – intell, command and control, and battlefield planning are key**
**Imburgia, ‘11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Joseph, Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USAF. Joseph, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May. http%3A%2F%2Flaw.vanderbilt.edu%2Fpublications%2Fjournal-of-transnational-law%2Fdownload.aspx%3Fid%3D6574&rct=j&q=Space%20Debris%20and%20Its%20Threat%20to%20National%20Security%3A%20A%20Proposal%20for%20a%20Binding%20International%20Agreement%20to%20Clean%20Up%20the%20Junk&ei=ypRiTr3aB8uDtgfjxcn_CQ&usg=AFQjCNEglOEqH_3OfmcbgE6HXwiHKrBz8g&sig2=tGgUqSpEwkWUxmVNfAZ1Cg</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These gloomy prognostications about the … </span><span class="Underline">imperiled, if not </span>forever lost<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.172</span>

**Space assets are essential – American global power and nuclear deterrence disappears without them**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taylor </span>**Dinerman, 8-1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-11. “How the End of NASA Affects US National Security,” Hudson Institute, [[http://www.hudson-ny.org/2299/nasa-us-national-security]]. </span>
Space<span class="Underline"> exploration is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not only </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and prosperous </span><span class="Underline">will inevitably diminish</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Space assets are crucial to communications superiority**
Megan **Ansdell, ’10** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,”[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second major space-debris … </span><span class="Underline">**of its wartime communications**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cavossa 2006, 5).</span>

**That is particularly key**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
**<span class="Underline">U.S. News and World Report … </span>space assets is not optional<span class="Underline">.</span>**

**It’s reverse causal – the military would *collapse* without satellites**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** **–** Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">General Kevin P. </span>Chilton, Commander of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>crucial advantages<span class="Underline"> in the field</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”6</span>

**U.S. military superiority solves great power war obsolete – bipolarity is worse**
**Jervis, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Former Gov’t Prof @ Harvard & UCLA, “Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective,” March, World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009, pp.188-213, JSTOR. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the extreme, then, </span>__unipolarity …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">most be an enabling one.12</span>

**Heg is good**
**Kagan, ‘7** - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19,[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and … will provide an easier path.</span>


**Decline isn’t inevitable – America can achieve dominance if it maintains critical assets**
**Cox, 8-30**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Michael, Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, “America's future is secure: Professor Cox,” ABC,[[http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2011/s3306142.htm]].</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ALI MOORE: Let's look at … </span>of the American political order<span class="Underline">.</span>

===[[#Affirmative-1AC Greenhill-Russia Advantage]]<span class="Underline">Russia Advantage</span>=== 

**Contention four is Russia —**

**Space debris during times of tension causes accidental nuclear war with Russia**
**Lewis, ‘4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy [Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, [[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

**A miscalculation could occur in 15 minutes – most recent weapon status**
**Daily Hampshire Gazette**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**8/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [8/11, Get nuclear arsenals off high-alert status, [[http://www.gazettenet.com/2011/08/11/get-nuclear-arsenals-off-high-alert-status?SESS9838dbf966666b2b299abc9e8df1abee=gnews]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This past week marked the … destroy their targets 30 minutes later.</span>

**Independently, the event would inspire mistrust that escalates**
**Coffelt, ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Colonel @ US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 [[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate satellite systems … </span><span class="Underline">is already beginning to occur.</span>

**US-Russia war is the largest existential risk – those outweigh**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>**Bostrom, ‘2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy @ Oxford Unviersity, “Existential risk,” Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002,[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A much greater existential risk … </span><span class="Underline">much we discount future benefits</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [15,16]. </span>

**Even limited miscalculation causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ira </span>**Helfand**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, M.D., </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> John O. </span>**Pastore****,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> M.D., </span>**‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31,[[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]].</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the end of the … their own by executive order.</span>

===[[#Affirmative-1AC Greenhill-Plan Text]]Plan Text=== 

**The United States federal government should deploy ground-based lasers to destroy space debris between 1 to 10 centimeters in diameter.**

===[[#Affirmative-1AC Greenhill-Solvency]]Solvency=== 

**Contention five is solvency —**

**One laser facility solves all debris in three years**
**Economist, ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010 [[http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss]]) </span>
The real threat now comes … this size in three years<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**It’s feasible in the near-term and technology is constantly improving**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>Orion<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> study </span>concluded that … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">these to an international project.”184</span>**

**Small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Megan </span>**Ansdell, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]. </span>
**The most dangerous pieces of …** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">using relatively simple shielding (Wright 2007, 36). </span>

**Lasers aren’t weapons – it’d take them three months to knock out a single mid-sized satellite and operating tactics solve**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. </span>NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ground-based lasers (</span><span class="Underline">GBL) have</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>procedures<span class="Underline"> at the device location. </span>

=2ac= 
==T Humans== 
**Space exploration is the objective to open new fields of application –**
**Seboldt et al 4** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.spacesailing.net/paper/200410_Vancouver_SeboldtBlomeDachwald+.pdf Wolfgang Seboldt: Engineer, German Aerospace Center (DLR), Institute of Space Simulation Hans-Joachim Blome, +Bernd Dachwald, +Lutz Richter, University of Applied Sciences, Germany PROPOSAL FOR AN INTEGRATED EUROPEAN SPACE EXPLORATION STRATEGY”)</span>
__Space exploration aims at expanding …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in NASA’s Mars exploration program</span>.
**C/I Development is to increase access to space**
**Hudgins 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Ph. D, currently Director of Advocacy and Senior Scholar at the Rand institute, former director of regulatory studies for Cato, (Edward, “ Message to Debaters on Economics of the 2011-2012 Topic”, http://debate-central.ncpa.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Message-to-Debaters-on-the-Economics-of-the-Topic.pdf)JCP</span>
__When we speak of “development” … permanent and not cost-prohibitive.__
**Competeting interpretations are bad they create a race to the bottom that arbitrarily excludes the aff– there is a resolution basis for reasonability**
**Oxford Dictionaries Online, No Date**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Its”, [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]])</span>
__its__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Entry from World dictionary … the area for its atmosphere</span>
**Earth-based exploration is topical**
**Lester, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy and serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC). Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, we should accept that “</span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">no longer a particularly relevant distinction.</span>
==T Mesosphere== 
**1. We Meet – Debris is in the thermosphere**
**David, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Leonard, has reported on the space industry for more than five decades. Fmr editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines and has written for SPACE.com (99-Now). “A Real Mess in Orbit: Space Junk to Hang Around Longer Than Expected,” Space.com, [[http://www.space.com/8875-real-mess-orbit-space-junk-hang-longer-expected.html]]. </span>
__While greenhouse gases cause warming …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">active debris removal," Lewis said. </span>

**2. Counter interpretation – investigation is exploration**
**Bohlmann, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Ph. D., Legal Officer at the … of manned and unmanned spacecraft. </span>

**Lasers can track debris**
**TG Daily**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 7/20/</span>**10**
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n Australian company </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is to … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">laser tracking system," he said.</span>

**3. Counter Interpretation - earth-based exploration of space is topical**
**Lester, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy and serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC). Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, we should accept that “</span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">no longer a particularly relevant distinction.</span>

**. Reasonabiltiy --- competeting interpretations create a race to the bottom that arbitrarily excludes the aff – there is a resolution basis for reasonability**
**Oxford Dictionaries Online, No Date**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Its”, [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]])</span>
__its__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Entry from World dictionary … the area for its atmosphere</span>

**5. Counter Interpretation– space exploration is the expansion of human influence in space and no case meets if ours doesn’t**
**Faith, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Adjunct fellow @ Center for Strategic and International Studies. G. Ryan, “Giving NASA a clear mission,” The Space Review, 8/31, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1456/1]]. </span>
__If neither technology-oriented nor … **the groundwork for future missions**__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

==Obama Good== 
**Plan is popular**
Ram **Jakhu 11** Chair, IAASS Legal and Regulatory Committee http://www.oosa.unvienna.org/pdf/pres/stsc2011/tech-35.pdf
The Report of the Congress … debris mitigation and remediation efforts.

**The turn is try or die – halting debris is a major Obama mission**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span>**Shiga, ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– “Obama declares war on space junk,” New Scientist, June, [[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn19101-obama-declares-war-on-space-junk.html]]. </span>
Keeping<span class="Underline"> space </span>debris in check … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">remove it after the fact.”</span>

**Plan is popular – Congress is concerned over US assets**
**Ansdell 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Megan Ansdell, Graduate student at GWU International and Science policy program at Elliot school of IR. 2010, “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although </span><span class="Underline">the </span>probability of <span class="Underline">catastrophic </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">predictive models (ESA 2009a).Weaponization</span>

**No link – the plan would be perceived as an extension of the current National Space Policy**
**NRC 9/1/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– National Research Council</span> **-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The … will only stress resources further.</span>

**Winners win—generates capital and wrecks the opposition.**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Daily Kos, 1-26</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win” 2011, google)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Right off the bat, </span><span class="Underline">you … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">a way of expressing our frustration.</span>
2AC Space Mil DA

==Space Mil== 
**B. Funding just quadrupled for unilateral tracking AND that’s space mil**
**Jakhu 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University (Dr. Ram Jakhu, with Cesar Jaramillo, Managing Editor Project Ploughshares, Phillip Baines, Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, John Seibert, Project Ploughshares, Dr. Jennifer Simmons, The Simmons Foundation, Dr. Ray Williamson, Secure World Foundation, “Space Security 2010,” Space Security, August 2010, pp. 119-167, [[@https://webmail.glenbrook225.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=8ec167d6f43246cfa72871dca2aad1b5&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.spacesecurity.org%2fspace.security.2010.reduced.pdf|http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf]])</span>
__Space surveillance capabilities are also … in low Earth orbit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (LEO).3</span>

**C. Nations already perceive U.S weaponization**
**Brown, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Spring, 2009, Trevor, Air Force … reconsidering commitments on arms control. </span>

**D. Pentagon Mission and X-37B**
**Burghardt, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/11/2010, Tom, Space Daily, “The … </span>__deploy them as offensive weapons.__

<span class="Underline">**E. Mars rover not-uniques laser link** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Patrascu, 10** (12/27/2010, Daniel, Autoevolution, “New Mars … </span>__in the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.__
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">B. New lasers can’t be mistaken for weapons </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Choi, ’11</span> **–** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Charles, Master’s @ University of Missouri—Columbia, 3-17, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.space.com/11157-nasa-lasers-shooting-space-junk.html]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instead of going up into … the Kessler syndrome," he added. </span>

**4. Cooperation fails**
**Brown, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - BA, Indiana University; MSc, S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University [Singapore] (Spring, Trevor, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal)</span>
__Perhaps there remains a belief in …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">power while expanding hard power.</span>

**5. Space unilateralism is key to space leadership causes future cooperation**
**Stone 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Space policy analyst and … friends the </span>__Europeans are pursuing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==International CP== 
**3. ONLY the US has an appropriate surveillance network – and the data is only available to the military**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lt Col Matthew C. </span>**Smitham, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – USAFLt Col Matthew C. Smitham, USAF, 3RD place for all DoD research in 2010*“The Need for a Global Space-Traffic-Control Service An Opportunity for US Leadership,” [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/maxwell/mp57.pdf]]. *http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awards.htm</span>
The US SSN is by … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to develop its own capability.40</span>

**Tracking is a prerequisite to removal**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D, “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]])</span>
Space debris detection and tracking … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and overall space situational awareness. </span>

**5. Data sharing is impossible and crushes space security**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cesar </span>**Jaramillo**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> et al, Program Officer at Project Ploughshares working on the Space Security and Nuclear Disarmament programs, [Space Security Index] </span>**August 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.spacesecurity.org|www.spacesecurity.org]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, the positive impact that … exact nature of that object.</span>

**7. Even the country with the next best tracking system can’t get it done**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cesar </span>**Jaramillo**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> et al, Program Officer at Project Ploughshares working on the Space Security and Nuclear Disarmament programs, [Space Security Index] </span>**August 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.spacesecurity.org|www.spacesecurity.org]]</span>
__Russia is the **only other …**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">widely disseminate space surveillance information.</span>

**9. U.S. unilateral action is crucial to solve and the only way to preserve global military dominance – acting first is key**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Megan </span>**Ansdell, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]. </span>
International cooperation<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in space </span><span class="Underline">has </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States for removal services. </span>








=Negative= 

==T- Military== 
**The aff’s not topical – the topic mandates a __commercial endeavor__ not a __military action__**
**Hsu and Cox, 9 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Particularly, NASA needs reforms on...solely by taxpayer contributions.</span>
==T- Humans== 
**The aff’s not topical – it doesn’t involve direct human presence**

**a) Exploration**
**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many believe that the...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> totally consistent with the definition of exploration</span> __provided in the MIT white paper.__

**b) The aff is space tech not development**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>__former adjunct professor__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at Golden Gate University his </span>__doctoral dissertation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> was titled “</span>__Outer Space Commerce__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development 9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eric </span>__Westling is a science writer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, pundit on...</span> __manned commercial projects in space.__

==Politics- SKFTA== 
**Deal will pass b/c of PC investment---it’s key to the alliance**
**Kim 9/6** Sukhan Kim senior partner specializing in international trade at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP "Pushing the FTA to the finish line" koreajoongangdaily.joinsmsn.com/news/article/Article.aspx?aid=2941157
<span class="Underline">**Despite** these **hurdles**,... **enhance the bilateral relationship at this time** - and for Korea to help itself - than for both countries to finally get on with ratification of Korus FTA. </span>

**That’s key to the economy, the alliance, global trade, hegemony, democracy, and solving warming**
Daniel **Twining 9** is Senior Fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States (GMF). He is also a consultant to the U.S. government on international security affairs “The U.S.-ROK Alliance in the 21st Century,” Strengthening the U.S.-Korea Alliance for the 21st Century - The Role of Korean-American Partnership in Shaping Asia’s Emerging Order” www.kinu.or.kr/upload/neoboard/DATA05/korus09.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bilateral and regional trade liberalization </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea, Japan, China, and Russia—meet.</span>

**Trade and growth solve global nuclear war**
Michael, **Panzner 2008** faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138, googlebooks
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Continuing calls for curbs on...</span><span class="Underline">Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of **a new world war**. </span>

**Warming causes extinction --- outweighs everything**
**The New York End Times 6** The New York End Times is a non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter. We monitor world trends and events as they pertain to two vital threats - war and extinction. We use a proprietary methodology to quantify movements between the extremes of war and peace, harmony and extinction. http://newyorkendtimes.com/extinctionscale.asp
<span class="Underline">We rate Global Climate Change as a...i</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ncorporate the dangers here . </span>
==Asteroid Coop CP== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should take the lead in organizing and empowering a suitable international entity to participate in developing a detailed plan for dealing with the NEO hazard.**
<span class="cite">NAS 10 -- National Academy of Sciences, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Final Report of the Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies </span>
__Responding effectively to hazards posed by NEOs requires the joint efforts of diverse institutions and individuals__. Thus __organization plays a key role...t__he United States should take the lead in organizing and empowering a suitable international entity to participate in developing a detailed plan for dealing with the NEO hazard.

Solves all of case and now is key
<span class="cite">NAS 10 -- National Academy of Sciences, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Final Report of the Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies </span>
__In the event of a sudden emergency...__ __to ensure preparedness.__

==ESA EOS CP== 
**Text: The European Space Agency should implement the National Physics Laboratory’s environmental monitoring proposal, Traceable Radiometry Underpinning Terrestrial And Helio-Studies (TRUTHS)**

TRUTHS solves all of the case and is ten times more accurate than any preceding climate monitoring system
<span class="cite">NASA 3 – </span>NASA PDF Report, “TRACEABLE RADIOMETRY UNDERPINNING TERRESTRIAL – AND HELIO- STUDIES (TRUTHS),” http://map.nasa.gov/documents/CLARREO/COSPAR_PaperTRUTHS2003AdvSpaceRes%5B7%5D.pdf
__TRUTHS is a satellite mission to make...__climate change with confidence.

==NSS CP== 
**Text: The President of the United States should release a National Security Strategy, and corresponding implementation documents including the National Security Space Strategy and Quadrennial Defense Review, which states that adopting a policy of <> is vital to the national security of the United States of America.**

**The counterplan shapes policy**
**Korb,** Duggan, and Conley, **9** — Senior Fellow at American Progress and a senior advisor to the Center for Defense Information, senior fellow and director of National Security Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, and former assistant Secretary of Defense, AND, Research Associate for national security at the Center for American Progress, AND, Special Assistant for National Security and International Policy (Lawrence J., Sean, and Laura, “Integrating Security”, The Center for American Progress, November 2009, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/11/pdf/integrating_security.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Barack Obama and...</span><span class="Underline"> issuing this important guidance.</span>

**The NSS affects policy, public opinion, and international perception**
**Sagan****, 9** — Professor of Political Science at Stanford (Scott D., “The Case for No First Use”, Survival, Vol. 53, Issue 3, June/July 2009)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mine is by no means the first r desired by the administration.</span>

=TOC neg cites:= 

The aff’s choice to frame their plan in terms of the USFG as the agent of action mediates our relationship to other people, removing their personal responsibility for action and displacing it onto the state- this perspective makes possible everyday violence
Susanne <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kappeler</span>, 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span> [Associate professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behaviour, p. 14]
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Scientific discourse, too</span>


**An ethic of federal action precludes resolving environmental harms – individual rejections are key**

**Vandenbergh, 4** – Michael, Assistant Professor at Vanderbilt U and former Chief of staff at the EPA (“From Smokestack to SUV: The Individual as Regulated Entity in the New Era of Environmental Law”, March, 57 Vand. L. Rev. 515, Lexis) // AK



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Individuals are important, overlooked sources of pollutants and environmental harms. Despite their importance, individuals have been the subject of little regulation and have not been a focus of the environmental regulatory debate</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. A variety of reasons may</span>

==<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Gtown</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Round 1 --- Westminster PP Asteroids</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans </span>
<span class="Underline">International Entity Counterplan </span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Asteroids K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Case </span>

<span class="Underline">Round 3 --- National Cathedral SS Discover</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">ESA</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Cap K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr </span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>

<span class="Underline">Round 6 --- American History JB Discover</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">ESA</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics </span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr </span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>

<span class="Underline">Octos --- St. Ignatius CP Satellite Hardening</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Mil</span>
<span class="Underline"><<<Counterplan>>></span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Case D </span>

<span class="Underline">Quarters --- Pace KS SSA</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc </span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">Consult NATO</span>
<span class="Underline">IMF Funding Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics </span>
<span class="Underline">Security K </span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>

<span class="Underline">Semis --- Pace ES</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc </span>
<span class="Underline">T Mil</span>
<span class="Underline">NSS Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics </span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">NSS</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
==<span style="text-decoration: none;"> New Trier</span>== 

<span class="Underline">Round 2 --- Nevada Union WW</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">ESA</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>

<span class="Underline">Round 4 --- Hoflo CG SPS</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans </span>
<span class="Underline">Condition India</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics </span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Case</span>

<span class="Underline">Round 6 --- West Des Moines Valley DT</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">China Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">Counterplan </span>

==<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Caucus</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Round 2 --- Groves NP Discover</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">IMF Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">IMF Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>

<span class="Underline">Round 3 --- Dowling SF</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">Consult Russia</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr </span>
<span class="Underline">Consult Russia</span>

<span class="Underline">Round 5 --- GBS KP</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">GBL</span>
<span class="Underline">Launches DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Case</span>

<span class="Underline">Octos --- Edina HM</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">TDP Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Launches Disad</span>
<span class="Underline">K of Levinas </span>

<span class="Underline">2nr </span>
<span class="Underline">TDP</span>
<span class="Underline">Launches</span>
<span class="Underline">Case </span>

==<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Alta</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Round 4 --- Ashland FK Whipple Shields</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">GBL</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>
<span class="Underline">Launches Disad</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr </span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>

<span class="Underline">Round 6 --- Moffat BE Rods from God</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Mil</span>
<span class="Underline">“Rods from God” PIC</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">T Mil</span>

==<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Dowling</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Round 2 --- Westside AP Debate Bad</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">Framework</span>
<span class="Underline">Occularcenturism K</span>
<span class="Underline">Cap K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">Framework</span>

<span class="Underline">Round 3 --- SFL JD Shuttles</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">ESA</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Security</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Case</span>

<span class="Underline">Round 5 --- New Trier KH BMD</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Humans</span>
<span class="Underline">START Disad</span>
<span class="Underline">Memo</span>
<span class="Underline">Ground Counterplan</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics </span>

<span class="Underline">2nr</span>
<span class="Underline">Memo</span>
<span class="Underline">Octos --- Whitney Young DV ORS</span>
<span class="Underline">1nc</span>
<span class="Underline">T Mil</span>
<span class="Underline">Ground CP</span>
<span class="Underline">China CP</span>
<span class="Underline">Politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Launches DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>

<span class="Underline">2nr </span>
<span class="Underline">Security K</span>