[[toc]]

=Negative= 
==TAA Politics--Wake== 
TAA will pass—numbers are there
ABC News Amy Bingham Sep 8, 2011 12:15pm <span style="color: #333333;">Commerce Confident Trade Agreements Will Pass </span>[[http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2011/09/commerce-confident-trade-agreements-will-pass/]] MStef
But Democrats have made it clear that they will not consider the trade bills until Republicans vow to pass the Trade Adjustment Assistance, a program that aids workers who lose their jobs because of increased imports or outsourcing that the trade agreements create. The TAA, which the Congressional Budget Office estimates will add nearly $3 billion to the deficit in five years, has been a tough sell for Republicans. The assistance and job training program’s budget, which was originally slated to cost $5.4 billion over five years, was slashed by nearly a third in order to pull in enough Republican support. “We believe the numbers are there for passage,” Murphy said. “At a time of fiscal austerity it passed muster on that score so on that basis we believe that there will be a significant number of votes in support of Trade Adjustment Systems.” Murphy said House freshmen, some of the most conservative members of Congress, have been “very receptive” and “strongly supportive” of the trade agreements, but will almost surely vote against the TAA. Senate Democrats plan to attach the TAA to the Generalized System of Preferences program which reduces tariffs on imports from 130 countries. The House passed the GSP Wednesday night.

Increased space funding requires massive pc
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pasztor – 7/22</span>, Andy Pasztor, senior special writer at the Los Angeles bureau of The Wall Street Journal, 7/22/11 “NASA’s Post-Shuttle Exploration Plans Generate Little Excitement” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903554904576460203278610600.html?mod=googlenews_wsj
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Despite the fanfare surrounding Thursday's final shuttle landing</span>, p<span style="text-decoration: none;">lans for future U.S. manned space exploration have failed to spark broad public excitement or congressional backing</span>.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Starting in the late 1980s, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">three presidents prior to Barack Obama </span>proposed <span style="text-decoration: none;">plans for rockets and spacecraft</span> i<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ntended to replace the shuttle fleet operated by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, </span>only to discover the project<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s were either unaffordable or</span> <span style="text-decoration: none;">lacked political support. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">So far</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the Obama administration doesn't appear to be faring much better</span>. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The administration wants to rely on commercial space-taxis for the next decade or two to reach the orbiting International Space Station. But the planned commercial projects are years late, and critics worry there may be fewer of them than initially envisioned, which could hurt the program's reliability</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Plans for vehicles built and operated by NASA to take astronauts deeper into space also face major delays. The agency is having trouble coming up with cost effective new propulsion systems</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and is facing bipartisan pressure in Congress</span> to use variants of shuttle technology <span style="text-decoration: none;">to reduce layoffs in states and districts where it is manufactured</span>. Lawmakers in both parties complain that <span style="text-decoration: none;">arguments over such matters have damaged NASA's credibility on Capitol Hill.</span>

Plan already has massive bipartisan support but Obama push is crucial 
Reuters Doug Palmer WASHINGTON | Thu Sep 8, 2011 Republicans ask Obama to send Congress trade pacts [[http://in.reuters.com/article/2011/09/07/idINIndia-59210720110907]] MStef
The White House and Republicans have locked horns repeatedly this year over the longstanding program. Democrats consider TAA a key part of the U.S. social safety net. But many Republicans, with a strong push from the party's anti-spending Tea Party wing, question the need for the program and its effectiveness. The program was expanded in 2009 to cover service industry workers and provide more generous benefits. Those reforms have expired, but the core program continues. Earlier this year, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a Republican, struck a deal with the White House and a Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a Democrat, on a slimmed down version of TAA that includes many of the 2009 reforms. The White House wants the compromise TAA bill approved along with the free trade pacts, but angered Republicans when it threatened to include the legislation in the implementing bill for South Korean agreement. Shortly before the August congressional recess, Reid and Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell issued a joint statement aimed at reassuring the White House that Republicans would not block action on TAA in the Senate. But an administration official on Wednesday, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the White House still needed "to nail down the specifics on a bipartisan, bicameral path" to approve the trade deals and TAA. "We hope to see the same progress in the House that we saw in the Senate before recess. We're not there yet, but we're making headway," the administration official said. A spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner said Obama was to blame for the continued inaction on the pacts.

TAA key to the economy—increases important jobs
[[http://perspectives.thirdway.org/?author=46|ED GERWIN]] May 27th, 2011 Pitching a Penny for Free Trade Senior Fellow for Trade and Global Economic Policy at Third Way Ed Gerwin is the Senior Fellow for Trade and Global Economic Policy at Third Way, where he works to develop pro-growth, pro-trade economic policies. Before joining Third Way, Mr. Gerwin was a partner in the international trade and federal relations groups in the Washington, D.C. office of Winston & Strawn LLP. During his 28-year legal practice at Winston & Strawn, Mr. Gerwin was involved in a wide array of international trade law and policy matters, including antidumping cases, trade preference proceedings and proposed free trade agreements. [[http://perspectives.thirdway.org/?p=1043]] MStef
Imagine that someone presented you with the following proposition: You can have $10, with more to come. You’re just asked to pitch in a penny to improve your neighborhood. You’d probably be quick to take that deal, right? Well, that’s basically the offer on the table right now for the American economy, yet some in Washington are waffling. Each year international trade adds one trillion dollars to our economy – translating into $9,000 in annual benefits for the average household. Trade supports 1 out of 5 American jobs, and jobs sustained by exporting products pay 13-18 percent more than the national average. Overall, trade is a very good deal for America. But, even as the vast benefits of trade are broadly enjoyed, we can’t pretend that they come for free. It’s been estimated that about 500,000 jobs are lost due to trade each year. These displaced workers, who represent about 3 percent of the large churn in our permanent labor market, essentially foot the bill for the greater good that trade does for our economy. For many of these displaced workers, finding a new job with decent wages can be particularly difficult. These workers tend to be older, lower-income, less educated, less skilled, less mobile and harder to re-employ. They often live in places like Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania, which have borne much of the brunt of the economic downturn. For almost 50 years, America has used Trade Adjustment Assistance – or TAA – to help smooth out trade’s rough edges and make sure that the prosperity of many doesn’t rest on the backs of a few. By helping trade-affected workers and firms to transition to new jobs and business opportunities, TAA does more than provide them with a safety net – it provides a path for them – and for America – to take a more active role in the global economy. TAA helps trade-displaced workers return to employment by providing employment counseling, job training and extended income support. It also helps trade-affected small businesses stay in business and avoid layoffs by supporting projects to bolster a firm’s international competitiveness in areas such as marketing, engineering and quality. In 2009, Congress made very significant improvements to the TAA program, including covering workers and firms in the services sector, covering jobs lost to factory shifts abroad and increasing funds for training. Unfortunately, because of inaction by Congress, these key reforms expired in February. In 2010, TAA assisted almost 235,000 American workers, providing skills assessments and career counseling to over 136,000 participants and employment training to almost 100,000 displaced workers. Two-thirds of the participating workers had a high school education or less, 59 percent were over 45 and many lived in hard-hit areas like California, North Carolina and the Rust Belt. The 2009 improvements to TAA enabled the program to assist over 185,000 Americans who may not have been previously ineligible for help. And the small but effective TAA program for trade-impacted firms has enabled 99 percent of participating businesses to survive. Many are thriving and some have even become U.S. exporters. By assisting workers and firms, TAA also enhances America’s economic potential. By 2012, America will have 3 million fewer skilled manufacturing workers than we need. Improving the skills of trade-displaced workers and helping import-threatened firms to retool their operations will help America have the workers and tools to better compete and win in a global economy. How much does all of this cost? Renewing the 2009 version of TAA would require about $1 billion per year – essentially a rounding error in the federal budget. The Obama administration has been working hard to build strong bipartisan support for increased American engagement in global trade. The administration has improved the pending agreements with Colombia, Korea and Panama, and is negotiating a 21st Century trade deal to win fairness for American exporters and workers in important Asian markets. Like earlier administrations, the administration is rightly insisting that a substantial TAA program must be a key pillar of a comprehensive American trade policy that benefits the many while seeking to help the vulnerable few. One trillion dollars. That’s how much trade benefits America’s economy each year. One billion dollars. That’s the annual cost of a robust TAA. It’s true that you can’t get something for nothing, but with a cost of about 1/1000th of trade’s annual benefits, a strong TAA comes pretty close. In view of TAA’s importance to American workers and firms and how much America can continue to gain from further trade expansion, extending and funding a robust TAA seems like an awfully good deal. It shouldn’t take long – even for Washington – to figure out the right move.

Economic collapse causes global war
Auslin, 9 – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044
As they deal with a collapsing world economy, policymakers in Washington and around the globe must not forget that when a depression strikes, war can follow. Nowhere is this truer than in Asia, the most heavily armed region on earth and riven with ancient hatreds and territorial rivalries. Collapsing trade flows can lead to political tension, nationalist outbursts, growing distrust, and ultimately, military miscalculation. The result would be disaster on top of an already dire situation. No one should think that Asia is on the verge of conflict. But it is also important to remember what has helped keep the peace in this region for so long. Phenomenal growth rates in Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, China and elsewhere since the 1960s have naturally turned national attention inward, to development and stability. This has gradually led to increased political confidence, diplomatic initiatives, and in many nations the move toward more democratic systems. America has directly benefited as well, and not merely from years of lower consumer prices, but also from the general conditions of peace in Asia. Yet policymakers need to remember that even during these decades of growth, moments of economic shock, such as the 1973 Oil Crisis, led to instability and bursts of terrorist activity in Japan, while the uneven pace of growth in China has led to tens of thousands of armed clashes in the poor interior of the country. Now imagine such instability multiplied region-wide. The economic collapse Japan is facing, and China's potential slowdown, dwarfs any previous economic troubles, including the 1998 Asian Currency Crisis. Newly urbanized workers rioting for jobs or living wages, conflict over natural resources, further saber-rattling from North Korea, all can take on lives of their own. This is the nightmare of governments in the region, and particularly of democracies from newer ones like Thailand and Mongolia to established states like Japan and South Korea. How will overburdened political leaders react to internal unrest? What happens if Chinese shopkeepers in Indonesia are attacked, or a Japanese naval ship collides with a Korean fishing vessel? Quite simply, Asia's political infrastructure may not be strong enough to resist the slide towards confrontation and conflict. This would be a political and humanitarian disaster turning the clock back decades in Asia. It would almost certainly drag America in at some point, as well. First of all, we have alliance responsibilities to Japan, South Korea, Australia, and the Philippines should any of them come under armed attack. Failure on our part to live up to those responsibilities could mean the end of America's credibility in Asia. Secondly, peace in Asia has been kept in good measure by the continued U.S. military presence since World War II. There have been terrible localized conflicts, of course, but nothing approaching a systemic conflagration like the 1940s. Today, such a conflict would be far more bloody, and it is unclear if the American military, already stretched too thin by wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, could contain the crisis. Nor is it clear that the American people, worn out from war and economic distress, would be willing to shed even more blood and treasure for lands across the ocean. The result could be a historic changing of the geopolitical map in the world's most populous region. Perhaps China would emerge as the undisputed hegemon. Possibly democracies like Japan and South Korea would link up to oppose any aggressor. India might decide it could move into the vacuum. All of this is guess-work, of course, but it has happened repeatedly throughout history. There is no reason to believe we are immune from the same types of miscalculation and greed that have destroyed international systems in the past.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]