[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Landsats 1AC (Westside)==

===Contention One: Inherency===

**A. Congress is in budget cutting mode—repeatedly denies funding for USGS Landsat program.**
Schiffries 4/15/2011 (Dr. Craig M., Director for Geoscience Policy at the Geological Society of America, congressional testimony, http://www.geosociety.org/geopolicy/news/0411-HouseTestimonyOnUSGS.pdf, accessed 7-5-11)

President Obama’s . . . important to the nation.

**B. The USGS has inherited control of Landsat without the necessary funds to support the mission**
Simpson 3/17/2011 (Mike, Interior Subcommittee chairman, 2011, http://appropriations.house.gov/_files/031711InteriorUSGeologicalSurveySimpson.pdf, accessed 7-5-11)

Third, by inheriting . . .  National Land Imaging Agency. 

===Plan Text: Landsats===

The United States federal government should guarantee funding for the National Land Imaging Program to maintain and to replace multiple operational Landsat satellites.

===Contention Two: Solvency===

**A. Commitment to having multiple operational Landsats is key to maintaining continuous data and improves the quality of Landsat data**
Wulder et al 11 (Michael A. Wulder a,⁎, Joanne C. White a, Jeffrey G. Masek b, John Dwyer c, David P. Roy d a Canadian Forest Service, Pacific Forestry Centre, Natural Resources Canada b Biospheric Sciences Branch, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center,  c United States Geological Survey, Center for Earth Resources Observation and Science  d Geographic Information Science Center of Excellence, South Dakota State University, Remote Sensing of Environment 115 p. 747–751, http://globalmonitoring.sdstate.edu/faculty/roy/Wulder_2011_RSE_Landsat-update_115.pdf, accessed 7-3-11)

In the future, . . . be seriously considered. 

**B. Landsat imaging is still managed haphazardly, preventing effective use of the data. Uniting the program under a single agency solves.**
Wigbels et al 8 (Lyn, Senior Fellow/Assistant Professor at the Center for Aerospace Policy Research at George Mason University, a Senior Associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies Space Initiatives Program, G. Ryan Faith, adjunct fellow at CSIS, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, CSIS, July, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf, accessed 7-6-11)

There are also . . . generation Earth observation system.

===Contention Three: Food Security===

**A. Landsats are crucial to predictable agricultural reports—the alternative is unpredictable markets and food shortages.**
NASA 7 (Laura Rocchio, http://landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov/news/news-archive/soc_0010.html, 7/6/11)

Market intelligence about . . . to use Landsat data.

**B. Landsats exponentially increase agricultural output—energy measurement, soil detection, soil mapping and spatial planning make modern agriculture possible.**
Singh et al 10 (Pradeep Kumar Singh, Feroz Ahmed Parry, Kouser Parveen, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir, http://www.journalcra.com/sites/default/files/Download_331.pdf,accessed 7/7/11)

Remote sensors are . . . the food production.

**C. Accurate predictions of crop yield are crucial to maintaining economic stability and planning for disasters. Only Landsats allow planners to manage crises.**
Doraiswamy et al 7 (Paul C., Bakhyt Akhmedov b  ,  Larry Beard c  , Alan Stern a  and Richard Mueller c a USDA, b Science Systems and Associates, Inc.   c USDA, http://www.ars.usda.gov/SP2UserFiles/person/ 1430/ISPRS_AGRIFISH_Final.pdf , accessed 7/8/11)

Accurate and timely monitoring . . . complex forecast model.

**D. Once the genie is out of the bottle, it won’t go back in – famine leads to warfare which leads to increased malnutrition, sparking revolutions – regimes resort to fascism and backlash**
Smith 98 (Paul J., Asia-Pacific Center for Sec'y Studies, http://www.apcss.org/Publications/ Report_Food_Security_98.html, accessed 7/8/11)

Food security and . . . as a security concern. 

**E. We have an ethical obligation to mitigate or prevent famine**
LaFollette 2k3 [Hugh, Cole Chair in Ethics University of South Florida St. Petersburg, "World Hunger" Blackwell Companion to Applied Ethics, ed. Ray Frey and Christopher Heath Wellman, Blackwell 2003, http://www.stpt.usf.edu/hhl/papers/World.Hunger.htm]  

Those who claim . . . of the starving.

===Contention Four: Biodiversity===

**A. Landsat program is key to quantifying biodiversity loss, and enables successful habitat preservation**
Turner et al 3 (Woody Turner1, Sacha Spector2, Ned Gardiner2, Matthew Fladeland3, Eleanor Sterling2 and Marc Steininger4 1NASA Office of Earth Science,  2Center for Biodiversity and Conservation, American Museum of Natural History,  3Earth Science Division, NASA Ames Research Center,  4Center for Applied Biodiversity Science at Conservation International,  TRENDS in Ecology and Evolution Vol.18 No.6 June, p. 306-314 “Remote sensing for biodiversity science and conservation”)

The potential for . . . the issue at hand.

**B. Conservation efforts require data – limited resources mean effective choices must be made**
Harris et al 5 (Grant M., Clinton N. Jenkins, and Stuart L. Pimm, Nicholas School of the Environment and Earth Sciences at Duke, http://www.terpconnect.umd.edu/~cnjenkin/Harris_et_al_2005.pdf, accessed 7-6-11)

Tropical forest destruction . . . species than others.

**C. Landsat data continuity is uniquely key to preserving biodiversity**
Leimgruber et al 5 (Peter, Conservation and Research Center, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, Catherine A. Christen, same, and Alison Laborderie, Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology at U Kent, Environmental Monitoring and Assessment 106: p. 81–101, http://nationalzoo.si.edu/Publications/ScientificPublications/pdfs/E48D1034-C95B-4400-ABB5-66A1E5A32EC8.pdf, accessed 7-6-11)

The Landsat program . . . and landscape ecology.

**D. The brink is now – coral reefs are in danger and the Landsat program is crucial to manage and prevent damage to their ecosystems**
Knudby 7 (Anders, Ellsworth LeDrew and Candace Newman, Dept. of Geography at U Waterloo, Progress in Physical Geography 31(4) pp. 421-434, EBSCO)

I Introduction Coral reefs are . . . to influence biodiversity. 

**E. And, biodiversity loss outweighs nuclear war. Every species our plan saves is another reason why we outweigh their disadvantages.**
Chen 2000 [Jim, Professor of Law at the U of Minnesota, Minnesota Journal of Global Trade Winter 2000, pg. 211]

The value of . . . a hundred million.

**F. The 1AC takes a stance against the systematic and willful destruction of the environment consistent with a thermonuclear war. Absent action, biocide is inevitable.**
Bookchin 87 (Murray Bookchin is a major spokesperson for the ecology, appropriate technology, and anti-nuclear movements and author of many books, 1987, The Modern Crisis)

Industrially and technologically . . . and living world.


==Helium 3 1AC (LSW)== 

===Plan Text: Helium 3=== 

The United States federal government should fund the development of its lunar mining capabilities for Helium-3.

===Contention One: Fusion Power=== 

**A. Helium 3 on Earth is insufficient --- mining it on the moon will spur super-efficient and safe fusion power**
Cooper 8—Ph.D. in lunar geology, professor at Lamar, has worked with NASA (Bonnie, "The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement", pg. 377-379, Appendix H, “Helium-3”)

One of the . . . benefit of humankind.

**B. Guaranteeing a reliable supply of Helium-3 is necessary to incentive the development of fusion reactors.**
Schmitt 4 (October 2004, Harrison H. (Apollo 17 astronaut), Popular Mechanics, “Mining the Moon,” vol. 181, no. 10, Academic Search Premier)

A sample of . . . support space exploration.

**C. This causes a transition to a nuclear fusion economy --- solves radiation and proliferation risks, public fears of nuclear power and prevents economic and environmental collapse**
Kulcinski & Schmitt, with the Fusion Technology Institute in the Department of Engineering Physics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison 2000 (July 2000, G.L. Kulcinski and H.H. Schmitt, Fusion Technology Institute, “Nuclear Power Without Radioactive Waste – The Promise of Lunar Helium-3,” Presented at the Second Annual Lunar Development Conference, “Return to the Moon II”, 20–21 July 2000, Las Vegas NV, http://fti.neep.wisc.edu/FTI/pdf/fdm1131.pdf)

Observations on the Development . . . in the 21st century

**D. Impacts**

**1. Nuclear waste will destroy human evolution.**
Coplan, 6 – Associate Professor of Law, Pace University School of Law (Karl S, “THE INTERCIVILIZATIONAL INEQUITIES OF NUCLEAR POWER WEIGHED AGAINST THE INTERGENERATIONAL INEQUITIES OF CARBON BASED ENERGY,” 17 Fordham Envtl. Law Rev. 227, Symposium, 2006)

By contrast, nuclear . . . are thus "intercivilizational."

**2. Economic collapse causes global war**
Auslin, 9 – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044)

As they deal . . . systems in the past.

**3. Proliferation causes global nuclear war**
Taylor, 1 (Theodore, Chairman of NOVA, Former Nuclear Weapons Designer, Recipient of the US Atomic Energy Commission’s 1965 Lawrence Memorial Award and former Deputy Dir. of Defense Nuclear Agency, “Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”, in “Breakthrough: Emerging New Thinking”, http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/taylor.html)

Nuclear proliferation . . . global nuclear war.

**E. Mining lunar resources solves fossil fuel dependence, which causes dangerous pollution and international conflict.**
Whittington, space policy analyst and author of Children of Apollo, 4 (12/8/04, Mark R., USA Today, “World's next energy source may be just a moon away,” http://www.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/2004-12-08-energy-source_x.htm,)

Impact of fossil . . . billions of dollars.

**F. This checks resource conflict and prevents extinction**
Garan, 10 – Astronaut (Ron, 3/30/10, Speech published in an article by Nancy Atkinson, “The Importance of Returning to the Moon,” http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/, JMP)

Resources and Other Benefits . . . human lunar settlement.

===Contention Two: China=== 

**A. China is competing for space dominance now – Helium-3 is key to US space leadership**
Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review, 2010, “DIVIDING THE PIE IN THE SKY: THE NEED FOR A NEW LUNAR RESOURCES REGIME” http://www.iew.unibe.ch/unibe/rechtswissenschaft/dwr/iew/content/e3870/e3985/e4139/e6403/sel-topic_4-hatch_ger.pdf

Until recently, Russia . . . Part II will demonstrate.

**B. And, US space leadership is key to national security and cooperative hegemony.**
Stone 2011, Christopher, policy analyst and strategist, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” The Space Review, Mar. 15, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1

The world has . . . a great nation.”

**C. Helium-3 is in high demand – China’s success means the end of US primacy**
John Vause, CNN correspondent, November 26, 2007, “China's ambitious plans in space”, http://articles.cnn.com/2007-11-26/tech/china.space.race_1_chang-e-helium-3-lunar-orbiter/2?_s=PM:TECH

When China's lunar . . . moon, and beyond.

**D. And, the US is competing with China for security – China’s dominance means they push the US out of Asia, leading to conflict**
Mearsheimer, prof. of poliscie at the U of Chicago, 5 (John, November 18, The Australian, “The Rise of China Will Not Be Peaceful at All”, lexis)

THE question at . . . sense for China.

**E. This US-China conflict escalates into a nuclear war and crashes the global economy.**
Lee Hunkovic, Professor at the American Military University, 2009, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf

A war between . . . in this study.

**F. There’s no alternative to US primacy – the transition from US hegemony causes a power vacuum resulting in multiple scenarios for extinction**
Ferguson 2004 [Niall, Professor of History at New York University's Stern School of Business and Senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, “A world without power,” Foreign Policy, p. 32-39, July-August]

So what is left? . . . new world disorder.

**G. International anarchy makes competition with China inevitable - only question is how we approach it**
Zhang, 11 (Professor of Political Science at Lingnan University, Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies. Baohui, “The Security Dilemma in the US-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332)

In both cases . . . take similar measures.


=Negative= 

==Politics== 

==Capitalism== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]