[[toc]]
=ORS= 
==Counterplans== 
===Terrestrial Shift CP=== 
====1NC==== 
CP text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its utilization of terrestrial communication and tracking replacement systems and train military forces to operate without satellite data.

Ground based systems solve vulnerability
Cheng, 8-16-11, Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning,” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/08/Chinas-Space-Program-A-Growing-Factor-in-US-Security-Planning, KHaze

Increase alternatives to space systems… the event of conflict.


====2NC==== 
Our evidence is comparative- terrestrial systems are sufficient to take over for satellites
Smith, 11 – USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

Multitudes of ISR sensors… sensors is currently impossible.


UAVs solve satellite reliance and are technically feasible
SP, 10-6-11, Strategy Page, “Surviving The Space Satellite Apocalypse,” http://www.strategypage.com/htmw/htspace/articles/20111006.aspx, KHaze

October 6, 2011: America sees long… is much less accurate.



==Case Defense== 
===Aerospace=== 
====No Stimulus==== 
Stimulus theory doesn’t apply to space sector
Szajnfarber et al, 2008, Zoe Graduate Research Assistant, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division at MIT, “Implications of DoD Acquisition Policy for Innovation: The Case of Operationally Responsive Space,” http://web.mit.edu/mgr/www/Portfolio/Implications%20of%20DoD%20Acquisition%20Policy%20for%20Innovation.pdf, KHaze

However, in more complex… role in driving change.


<span class="Underline">Government purchasing can’t increase commercial space-</span>
<span class="Underline">-risk aversion</span>
<span class="Underline">-new tech shot down</span>
<span class="Underline">-unrealistic requirements</span>
<span class="Underline">-inadequate budgets</span>
<span class="Underline">Bekey, 2011, Ivan, President of Bekey Designs, Inc., which has provided contract and consultancy services in advanced space concepts and technologies to several aerospace industry firms, defense and civil government agencies, and Hollywood studios for the past 10 years. Previously, he held various senior management positions at NASA Headquarters, including Director of Advanced Programs and Director of Advanced Concepts, where he was responsible for the conceptualization, definition, development, and flight testing of innovative advanced space system and launch vehicle technologies. Mr. Bekey also served a term in the White House on the National Space Council. He holds a Master of Science degree in electronics engineering and controls from the University of California, Los Angeles. “The Long-term Outlook for Commercial Space,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The Nation's space programs… and schedule growth.</span>


<span class="Underline">Government launch programs don’t spillover to private sector development</span>
<span class="Underline">Bonin, 11 – aerospace engineer and co-founder of Consortium Technologies, LLC, a Virginia-based company developing innovative technologies for both terrestrial and space-based applications (Grant, The Space Review, “Human spaceflight for less: the case for smaller launch vehicles, revisited,” 6/6, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1861/1)</span>

<span class="Underline">Roles and responsibilities The… be doing more of.</span>


<span class="Underline">Funds don’t produce space innovation- high cost of failure</span>
<span class="Underline">Szajnfarber et al, 2008, Zoe Graduate Research Assistant, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems Division at MIT, “Implications of DoD Acquisition Policy for Innovation: The Case of Operationally Responsive Space,” http://web.mit.edu/mgr/www/Portfolio/Implications%20of%20DoD%20Acquisition%20Policy%20for%20Innovation.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Perhaps the biggest… on the 13th flight24).</span>


===China=== 
====Can't Stop Attack==== 
China won’t target satellites- prefers communication and launch bases
Cheng, 8-16-11, Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning,” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/08/Chinas-Space-Program-A-Growing-Factor-in-US-Security-Planning, KHaze

In discussing Chinese space… control satellites in orbit.


====AT: First Strike==== 
=====Disincentive===== 
<span class="Underline">Economic and cultural ties prevent 1st strike- both sides are confident in deterrence</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, 10 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, KHaze)</span>

<span class="Underline">On the surface, it may… realm is outer space.</span>



<span class="Underline">No first strike- fear of Chinese nuclear retaliation</span>
<span class="Underline">Bin 1 – associate professor and director of the Arms Control Program at the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University (March 2001, Li, "The Effects of NMD on Chinese Strategy”, Jane’s Intelligence Review, Vol. 13, No. 3, pg. 49-52, http://irchina.org/en/xueren/china/view.asp?id=703) MGM</span>

<span class="Underline">Chinese nuclear development may be… attack from the U.S.</span>



=====<span class="Underline">Doctrine</span>===== 
US won’t first strike- doctrinal precedent
Blair, 2006, Bruce G., President of the World Security Institute. Mr. Blair is the author of numerous articles and books on security issues including the Logic of Accidental Nuclear War and Global Zero Alert for Nuclear Forces. He is presently completing a new book on U.S. nuclear policy. Chen Yali is the editor in chief of Washington Observer. She is also a Program Manager of Chen Shi China Research Group based in Beijing. “The Fallacy of Nuclear Primacy,” http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_4.pdf, KHaze

The professors’ arguments elicited… first-strike war-winning strategy.


DOD against first strike/nuclear primacy- voluntary retirement
Flory, 2006, Peter C. W., Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy, “Just the Facts,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/61931/peter-c-w-flory-keith-payne-pavel-podvig-alexei-arbatov-keir-a-l/nuclear-exchange-does-washington-really-have-or-?page=show, KHaze

The Department of Defense… not a first-strike posture.


US won’t pursue first strike- official doctrine
Blair, 2006, Bruce G., President of the World Security Institute. Mr. Blair is the author of numerous articles and books on security issues including the Logic of Accidental Nuclear War and Global Zero Alert for Nuclear Forces. He is presently completing a new book on U.S. nuclear policy. Chen Yali is the editor in chief of Washington Observer. She is also a Program Manager of Chen Shi China Research Group based in Beijing. “The Fallacy of Nuclear Primacy,” http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_4.pdf, KHaze

Both the professors… deliberate national policy.


====<span class="Underline">AT: PLA Is Seperate</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">CCP blocks any PLA autonomy or rogue generals</span>
<span class="Underline">McGregor, 2012, February, Richard, former Beijing bureau chief of the Financial Times, is author of The Party: The Secret World of China's Communist Rulers. “5 Myths About the Chinese Communist Party,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/5_myths_about_the_chinese_communist_party, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The PLA is the… as "market-Leninism."</span>


<span class="Underline">Economic disincentive for China and the PLA to attack</span>
<span class="Underline">MacDonald, 2011 - (Bruce W. MacDonald is senior director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program with the USIP Office of Special Initiatives. In this capacity, he developed and serves and lead instructor of 21st Century Issues in Strategic Arms Control and Nonproliferation, a series of courses for the USIP Academy for International Conflict Management and Peacebuidling, as well as serving as an adviser on a variety of issues related to nuclear strategy and policy, missile defense, arms control, and nonproliferation. He served as senior director of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States, a bipartisan body headed by former Defense Secretaries William Perry and James Schlesinger. He was project leader for the Council on Foreign Relations’ study of China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security. He also served on the Obama presidential campaign’s defense policy support team in the areas of military space, missile defense, and other strategic issues.MacDonald was assistant director for national security at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and served on the National Security Council staff.MacDonald is an honors graduate in aerospace engineering from Princeton University. He also received two masters degrees from Princeton, one in aerospace engineering with a specialty in rocket propulsion, and the second in public and international affairs. MacDonald is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. CQ Congressional Testimony, “Military and Civil Space Programs in China,” on May 11, 2o11 from http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2011hearings/transcripts/11_05_11_trans/11_05_11_final_transcript.pdf, AKaz)</span>

<span class="Underline">In the face of… through miscalculation or distraction.</span>


The PLA didn’t unilaterally pursue ASATs- the rest of China’s government can control them
Hagt, 7 - director of the China Program at the World Security Institute (Winter, Eric, “China’s ASAT Test: Strategic Response,” World Security Institute, china Security, pp. 31-51)

China has also taken a… narrowly conceived (military) interests.


====Won't Attack==== 
China is too technologically behind to attack- their evidence confuses possibility with intent
Wall, 2-28-12, Mike, SPACE.com Senior writer, “China's Space Advances Worry US Military,” http://www.space.com/14697-china-space-program-military-threat.html, KHaze

Keeping it in perspective… of decades behind," Weeden said. 


===Deterrence=== 
====Kamikaze==== 
Realist theory goes Neg- invulnerability forces a kamikaze attack to maintain power
Gerson, 2009, Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation, “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf, KHaze

In the emerging international… costs and risks of action.43


<span class="Underline">Space vulnerability prevents aggressive unilateralism- reassures other states</span>
<span class="Underline">Collins, 2011, John M., Distinguished Visiting Research Fellow in the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University. Previously, he was a Senior Specialist in National Defense for the Congressional Research Service, specializing in the U.S.-Soviet military balance, military strategy, and planning. Mr. Collins retired as a colonel from the U.S. Army. He holds Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in geography from the University of Kansas City and Clark University, respectively. “U.S. Military Spacepower: Conceptual Underpinnings and Practices,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Robust defenses and preemptive/retaliatory… repress those of rivals.23</span>

<span class="Underline">Weakness increases strategic equality- makes threats of retaliation credible</span>
<span class="Underline">Harrison, 2009, Ambassador Roger G. Harrison, Allan & Malcolm Lockheed and Glenn L. Martin Professor of Space and Defense Studies and Director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy. Dr. Harrison received his Ph.D. in Government from Claremont Graduate School. He had previously done graduate work at Pembroke College, Oxford University and undergraduate studies at the Free University of Berlin. Dr. Harrison’s undergraduate degree in Political Science was awarded by San Jose State University in 1965. “Space Deterrence: The Delicate Balance of Risk,” http://web.mac.com/rharrison5/Eisenhower_Center_for_Space_and_Defense_Studies/Space_Deterrence_files/Space_and_Defense_3_1%20Space%20Deterrence.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The effect of the vulnerability… substantial deterrent role.</span>


====Deterrence Fails==== 
<span class="Underline">Space deterrence doesn’t solve-</span>
<span class="Underline">-Political costs</span>
<span class="Underline">-Horizontal escalation</span>
<span class="Underline">-Think they can 1st strike</span>
<span class="Underline">-No hostilities now</span>
<span class="Underline">Morgan, 2010, FE, Ph.D. in policy studies, University of Maryland; M.A.A.S. in airpower arts and sciences, Maxwell Air Force; M.A. in computer systems management, Webster University; B.S. in business management, University of Maryland, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Moreover, while threats of conventional… irrelevant from a deterrence perspective.</span>


<span class="Underline">Space deterrence fails- no credible punishment and satellite dependence</span>
<span class="Underline">Morgan, 2010, FE, Ph.D. in policy studies, University of Maryland; M.A.A.S. in airpower arts and sciences, Maxwell Air Force; M.A. in computer systems management, Webster University; B.S. in business management, University of Maryland, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Deterrence entails discouraging… capabilities they provide. (See pp. 24–33.)</span>



====Deterrence Now==== 
<span class="Underline">Space deterrence exists now- the plan only incites fear</span>
<span class="Underline">Krepon, 2011, Michael, co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center and the Diplomat Scholar at the University of Virginia. He is the author or editor of 13 books, including Better Safe than Sorry: The Ironies of Living with the Bomb (Stanford University Press, 2009), Space Assurance or Space Dominance: The Case Against Weaponizing Space (Henry L. Stimson Center, 2003), Open Skies: Arms Control and Cooperative Security (St. Martin’s Press, 1992), and Commercial Observation Satellites and International Security (Palgrave Macmillan, 1990). “Preserving Freedom of Action in Space: Realizing the Potential and Limits of U.S. Spacepower,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Nuclear deterrence was based… worrisome than reassuring.</span>



===PGS=== 
====Doesn't De-escalate==== 
PGS doesn’t solve escalation- Russia will warn enemies
Harrison, 2009, Ambassador Roger G. Harrison, Allan & Malcolm Lockheed and Glenn L. Martin Professor of Space and Defense Studies and Director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy. Dr. Harrison received his Ph.D. in Government from Claremont Graduate School. He had previously done graduate work at Pembroke College, Oxford University and undergraduate studies at the Free University of Berlin. Dr. Harrison’s undergraduate degree in Political Science was awarded by San Jose State University in 1965. “Space Deterrence: The Delicate Balance of Risk,” http://web.mac.com/rharrison5/Eisenhower_Center_for_Space_and_Defense_Studies/Space_Deterrence_files/Space_and_Defense_3_1%20Space%20Deterrence.pdf, KHaze

There are objections to PGS,… practical means to retaliate.




=Colonization= 

==General== 
===Solvency=== 
<span style="background-color: #f8f8ff; display: block;"><span style="background-color: #ffffdd; color: #0000dd;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Montgomery Bell Academy (TN) - Galen Bullington & Kelly Haselton - Negative- Impacts#Impact%20Defense-Colonization|Colonization]]</span></span>

==Mars== 
Hashtags are stupid


===Colonization=== 
====Impossible==== 
Mars colonization is impossible- don’t trust their Zubrin evidence
Bell 5 – (Jeffery, former space scientist, 11/24/05, “The Dream Palace of the Space Cadets”, http://www.spacedaily.com/news/oped-05zzb.html)

Unfortunately, the new generation… COLONIZATION SONG CONTEST!!


Mars can’t be colonized- weather and surface
Minard 7 – [Anne, National Geographic News, “Mars Volcanoes May Re-Erupt, Hawaii Comparison Shows,” October 18, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2007/10/071018-mars-volcanoes.html]

The observations also suggest… to exist," he added.


==Moon== 
===Dust=== 
Moon dust would kill us all and destroy colonies
David 6 – (Leonard, Research Associate for Secure World Foundation, 11/7/06, “Lunar explorers face moon dust dilemma”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/15607792/, MH)

GOLDEN, Colo. — The Moon is dusty,… going to be dangerous on the Moon." 



=Nanotech= 
==Disads== 
===Nuclear war turns case=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear radiation turns nanotech</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gubrud 1997, Mark Avrum, 19. Superconductivity Researcher at U of MD “Nanotechnology and International Security.” Foresight 5th Conference Paper. [[http://www.csr.umd.edu/~mgubrud/nanosec1.html]], KHaze</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"Doomsday machines," extremely large… yet still perhaps unstable.</span>


==Case== 
===Regulation=== 
Nanotech regulation impossible
Mandel, 2008, Gregory, Professor of Law, Temple University - Beasley School of Law. The author is a member of the American Bar Association task force that briefed the Environmental Protection Agency Office of the General Counsel on arising nanotechnology issues under federal environmental law. “Nanotechnology Governance,” lexis, KHaze

All that being said,… opportunities at government agencies.


Can’t get nanotech leadership and US won’t use it
Gubrud 1997, Mark Avrum, 19. Superconductivity Researcher at U of MD “Nanotechnology and International Security.” Foresight 5th Conference Paper. http://www.csr.umd.edu/~mgubrud/nanosec1.html, KHaze

The cost of such an… [with] molecular manufacturing capability.


US nanotech lead causes counterbalancing- prevents leadership
Vandermolen 2006, Thomas D., BS, Louisiana Tech University; MA, Naval War College), is officer in charge, Maritime Science and Technology Center, Yokosuka, Japan. He was previously assigned as a student at the Naval War College, Newport Naval Station, Rhode Island. http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/fal06/vandermolen.html, KHaze

In order for this strategy… is not the best solution.



=Planetary Defense= 
==Disads== 

==AT: Covert Action== 
===Congress=== 
Leaks inevitable
San Diego Union Tribune 5/26/06 (Government Secrecy is a Farce, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1730)

Officials working for… originally set up to plug leaks.



Leaks to Congress are inevitable – magnifies the backlash
Cillizza 2008 (Chris Cillizza, 11/20/2008 (staff writer,
http://voices.washingtonpost.com/thefix/white-house/barack-obama-and-the-culture-o.html)


In conversations with… the leakage were diverse.


The volume of people that know about the plan guarantee leaks
Cillizza 2008 (Chris Cillizza, 11/20/2008 (staff writer,
http://voices.washingtonpost.com/thefix/white-house/barack-obama-and-the-culture-o.html)


Most, like Elmendorf, cited… different missions," Johnson said.


Wikileaks will report the plan – empirically proven
Ross 2011 (Tim, Writer @ The Telegraph, “WikiLeaks: US and China in military standoff over space missiles,” Feb 2, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8299495/WikiLeaks-US-and-China-in-military-standoff-over-space-missiles.html, EMM)

The two nuclear superpowers… new military frontier.


===China=== 
Chinese hackers ensure the secret gets out
Dunnigan, 1-6-12, James, Strategy Page, “China Hunts X-37 Secrets,” http://www.strategypage.com/dls/articles/China-Hunts-X-37-Secrets-1-16-2012.asp, KHaze

For the last five months… to servers in China.




==AT: No War== 
===AT: Contreras=== 
War is possible and likely
Contreras, your author, next paragraph, 2012, Dominic, "Winning the War on War?." News, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, February1,2012,http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21707/winning_the_war_on_war.html?breadcrumb=%2Fproject%2F52%2Fintrastate_conflict_program, KHaze

Toft, an associate professor… “you can’t miss the trend line.”


===AT: Peiser=== 
Technology has increased the chance of war
Peiser, your author, 2007, Benny, Social Anthropologist at Liverpool John Moores University, UK and scientific adviser to the Lifeboat Foundation, November 15, “Existential Risk and Democratic Peace”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7081804.stm, KHaze

Yet the very same… and catastrophic climate change.


==Case== 
===Asteroids=== 
====Cant Detect==== 
Current asteroid detection fails
IAA 9 (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing With The Threat To Earth From Asteroids And Comets”, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)

The models of the NEO… extended to smaller objects.


Status quo detection is insufficient
New Yorker 11 (“Vermin of the Sky; Who Will Keep The Planet Safe From Asteroids?”, 2-28, Lexis)

At the moment,… asteroid would be "too costly.")


Can’t accurately track asteroids now
Easterbrook 8 (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)

Current telescopes cannot… neither of which is happening.


===Aliens=== 
====Impact Calculus==== 
Alien invasion is too low probability to matter
Bostrom, 2002, Nick, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html, KHaze

7.2 Killed by an extraterrestrial… whimper rather than a bang.


====It's Over==== 
We can’t stop aliens- they’d destroy us if they’re evil
Dvorsky, 2007, George, Chair of the IEET Board of Directors and also heads our Rights of Non-Human Persons program. George produces Sentient Developments blog and podcast. “How not to prepare for an alien invasion,” http://ieet.org/index.php/IEET/more/1660, KHaze

The idea of the… even know what hit you.


====No Aliens==== 
Scientific consensus is on our side – no intelligent life beyond earth
Financial Times in ‘00
(Clive Cookson and Victoria Griffith, “Our Odyssey ends here: Man’s quest for self-discovery is at a dead-end with the acceptance that we are alone in space”, December 30, L/N)

Yet, since the film… causing lethal damage.


At least one alien civilization would travel – their total absence proves they don’t exist
Dick in ‘96
(Steven, Chief Historian for NASA, “The Biological Universe: The Twentieth-Century Extraterrestrial Life Debate and the Limits of Science”, p. 443-444)

The origin of the… time and money."97



=SSA= 
==Space Guard== 
===Counterplans=== 
====Increase PIC==== 
=====1NC===== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should create the United States Space Guard and transfer all existing space situational awareness responsibility to the agency.

=====Solvency 2NC===== 
Sharing SSA causes other states to contribute their own data- solves gaps and the sharing is sufficient to solve cooperation and provides enough trust to solve the terminal impact
Weeden, your 1AC evidence, 2009, Brian Weeden, is a technical consultant for the Secure World Foundation and former U.S. Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455, KHaze

SSA as the Foundation International… benefit of all humankind.


===Case=== 
===Cooperation=== 
====Trust==== 
Space info doesn’t cause cooperation- other states don’t trust us
Brown 2009, Peter J Brown is a satellite journalist from Maine USA. “Beijing wants it both ways in space,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/KB04Ad02.html, KHaze

As for the US record… said Johnson-Freese.


====Treaty Verification==== 
Verification doesn’t solve treaties- no penalties
DeSutter 08 [Paula A. DeSutter has an extensive background in verification and a career focus on national security and intelligence. She served for over four years as a Professional Staff Member of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Ms. DeSutter was professional staff liaison to Senator Jon Kyl and was responsible for legislation and oversight of intelligence collection, analysis, and activities related to proliferation, terrorism, arms control, the Persian Gulf States, India, Pakistan, China, and Afghanistan.] Is an Outer Space Arms Control Treaty Verifiable? By Paula A. DeSutter Assistant Secretary of materials/592.pdf, KHaze

It is theoretically possible… benefits of its violation.


Can’t verify- definitions and intent
DeSutter 08 [Paula A. DeSutter has an extensive background in verification and a career focus on national security and intelligence. She served for over four years as a Professional Staff Member of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Ms. DeSutter was professional staff liaison to Senator Jon Kyl and was responsible for legislation and oversight of intelligence collection, analysis, and activities related to proliferation, terrorism, arms control, the Persian Gulf States, India, Pakistan, China, and Afghanistan.] Is an Outer Space Arms Control Treaty Verifiable? By Paula A. DeSutter Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/592.pdf, KHaze

However, even with the most… especially in closed societies.


=SPS= 
==Counterplans== 
===DOD Alternative Energy CP=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">CP text: The United States federal government should substantially increase incentives for alternative energy and energy efficiency in the defense department.</span>

<span class="Underline">Mandating substantial reductions in petroleum consumption solves and is easily achievable</span>
<span class="Underline">Warner, 2009, Jerry, former combat officer and now a small businessman engaged in the development of alternative energy systems. In his personal capacity, he served as a member of the Obama ’08 defense policy task force. Peter Warren Singer is Director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution and author of the book Wired for War. In his personal capacity, he served as coordinator of the Obama ’08 defense policy task force. “Fueling the “Balance” A Defense Energy Strategy Primer,” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2009/08_defense_strategy_singer/08_defense_strategy_singer.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The goals of the strategy… target to aim for.</span>


==Case== 
===<span class="Underline">Oil Dependence</span>=== 
====Peak Oil/Straightjacket==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">American oil deposits solve and no risk of oil cutoff/peak oil</span>
<span class="Underline">Jaffe, September, Amy Meyers, Director of the Baker Institute Energy Forum at Rice University and co-author of Oil, Dollars, Debt, and Crises: The Global Curse of Black Gold. “The Americas, Not the Middle East, Will Be the World Capital of Energy,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/the_americas_not_the_middle_east_will_be_the_world_capital_of_energy?page=0,1&wpisrc=obinsite, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">By the 2020s,… leadership saddle again.</span>


=====2NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Multiple countries have more oil than the Middle East-</span>
<span class="Underline">a. Canada</span>
<span class="Underline">Homans, 8-17-11, Charles, features editor of Foreign Policy “How the West Was Drilled,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/17/how_the_west_was_drilled, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">In 1999, Canada surpassed… from dodgier countries.</span>


<span class="Underline">b. Brazil</span>
<span class="Underline">Homans, 8-17-11, Charles, features editor of Foreign Policy “How the West Was Drilled,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/17/how_the_west_was_drilled, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">In August 2005,… boom to come.</span>


<span class="Underline">c. Texas, North Dakota, Wyoming</span>
<span class="Underline">Homans, 8-17-11, Charles, features editor of Foreign Policy “How the West Was Drilled,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/17/how_the_west_was_drilled, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">It was natural… barrels of oil.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Budget Cuts</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Obama will veto any excessive cuts- fears political backlash</span>
<span class="Underline">Traub, 8-12-11, James, contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine and author of, most recently, The Freedom Agenda. "Terms of Engagement," his column for ForeignPolicy.com, runs weekly, “Can Obama Be Just Like Ike?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/12/can_obama_be_just_like_ike?page=0,1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Defense spending now… believe that he does."</span>


<span class="Underline">No impact to defense cuts- military has too many forces now</span>
<span class="Underline">Singer, 8-11-11, P.W., director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution, “Think Before You Cut,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/11/think_before_you_cut?page=0,1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Living up to the… support its effort.</span>


<span class="Underline">Defense cuts inevitable- politics, lack of rivals</span>
<span class="Underline">Mandelbaum, 8-9-11, Michael, “America's Coming Retrenchment,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/68024/michael-mandelbaum/americas-coming-retrenchment?page=show, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The acrimonious negotiation… sake of their principal goals.</span>


====AT: Nuclear Cuts==== 
<span class="Underline">Nuclear cuts good- we’d maintain a sufficient force and shift the money to needed conventional modernization</span>
<span class="Underline">Singer, 8-11-11, P.W., director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution, “Think Before You Cut,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/11/think_before_you_cut?page=0,1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">But perhaps the best… military capabilities elsewhere?</span>


=SBMD= 
==Counterplans== 
===BMD CP=== 
====1NC==== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce deployments of ballistic missile defense.

CP solves weaponization- BMD is the root cause of Chinese military concerns
Blazejewski 08 (Kenneth S. Blazejewski, JD/MPA joint degree student at NYU School of Law and the Woodrow Wilson School. Over the course of his graduate education, he has worked at the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, and the Democratic staff of the House Ways and Means Committee, served as the President of Law Students for Human Rights (LSHR) at NYU, 2008, “Space Weaponization and US-China Relations”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA509492)

On this account, …perhaps insurmountable advantage.34

====2NC==== 
Abandoning BMD solves Chinese ASAT development
Urayama 4, Kori, PhD from Boston University, Research Assistant for Project Alliance Tomorrow, China Debates Missile Defense, Survival, vol 46 no 2, Scholar

Significant qualitative enhancements… greater budget allocations.6*


====AT: Perm==== 
<span class="Underline">Concessions key</span>
<span class="Underline">Hu, Chinese President, 2011, Jintao, Public statement by Hu Jintao reported by Thomas Fingar, Oksenberg-Rohlen distinguished fellow at Stanford University and former deputy director of national intelligence for analysis. “What Hu Jintao Wants to Know,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/what_hu_jintao_wants_to_know, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Developments beyond our borders…. problem. For now.</span>


==DAs== 
===Weaponization=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">SBMD won’t be produced by the US now- the plan creates a unique fear that leads to global space weaponization and enemy SBMD systems</span>
<span class="Underline">Grego and Wright, 10 – *Laura, senior scientist in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, **David, senior scientist and co-director of the UCS Global Security Program (“Securing the Skies,” Union of Concerned Scientists, Nov. 2010, www.ucsusa.org/securingtheskies) Red</span>

<span class="Underline">A U.S. decision to develop… systems for themselves.</span>


Weaponization causes extinction
Mitchell, et al 01 – has been published in journals such as The Bulletin of Atomic Sciences; The Quarterly Journal of Speech; Science, Technology, and Human Values; and Argumentation and Advocacy. Author at the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies. Research associate (2002-2006) and deputy director (2007-2008) of the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies at the University of Pittsburgh, he convened working groups such as the Working Group on Preemptive and Preventive Military Intervention, supported Ridgway Center programming, and supervised Security Sweep, Ridgway's weblog (hosted jointly with the Ford Institute for Human Security). Winner of the James A. Winans-Herbert A. Wichelns Memorial Award for Distinguished Scholarship in Rhetoric and Public Address from the National Communication. (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)


<span class="Underline">This outweighs any short term benefit of the plan</span>
<span class="Underline">Hitchens, 2 -CDI Vice President, (Theresa, April 18 “Weapons in Space: Silver Bullet or Russian Roulette? The Policy Implications of U.S. Pursuit of Space-Based Weapons”, http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/spaceweapons.cfm)</span>

<span class="Underline">China and Russia long have… a military superpower.</span>


====Et al.==== 
Rest is found here: <span style="background-color: #f8f8ff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Montgomery Bell Academy (TN) - Galen Bullington & Kelly Haselton - Negative- Case Negs#Space%20Weaponization-Weaponization%20Bad-Weaponization|Weaponization]]</span>


===Prolif=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">New BMD systems undermine arms control efforts and create international countermeasures- causes global prolif and internal link turns solvency</span>
<span class="Underline">Lewis and Postol 10—PhD in experimental physics and is associate director of the Peace Studies Program at Cornell University AND professor of science, technology, and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former scientific adviser to the chief of naval operations (George and Theodore, “A Flawed and Dangerous U.S. Missile Defense Plan,” Arms Control Today, Vol. 40, Iss. 4, DA: 7/26/2011//JLENART)</span>

<span class="Underline">If policymakers decide that… interest of the United States.</span>


<span class="Underline">Proliferation ensures extinction – accidents, miscalculations, and theft of nukes are all inevitable.</span>
<span class="Underline">Utgoff, 2002 (Victor, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the</span>
<span class="Underline">Institute for Defense Analyses, Survival, v44, n2)</span>

<span class="Underline">Thus, both history… even whole nations.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Chinese Missiles</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">China won’t back down- missile defense will cause them to reciprocate with faster missile prolif</span>
<span class="Underline">Erickson, 2005, Lyle J. and Andrew S., Associate Professor in the Strategic Research Department at the U.S. Naval War College and a founding member of the department’s China Maritime Studies Institute (CMSI). He is a Fellow in the Princeton-Harvard China and the World Program, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, and a Fellow in the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program. Erickson previously worked for Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) as a Chinese translator and technical analyst. He has also worked at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, the U.S. Consulate in Hong Kong, the U.S. Senate, and the White House. Proficient in Mandarin Chinese and Japanese, he has traveled extensively in Asia and has lived in China, Japan, and Korea. Erickson received his Ph.D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics from Princeton and graduated with a B.A. in history and political science from Amherst, “China's Nuclear Force Modernization ”, http://www.usnwc.edu/Publications/Naval-War-College-Press/Newport-Papers/Documents/22-pdf.aspx, KH</span>

<span class="Underline">U.S. BMD deployment will… defense system is built.131</span>


<span class="Underline">US-China missile arms race causes Russia, Japan, Taiwan, and India to follow- collapses the INF and makes miscalc inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">Stokes and Blumenthal, 2011, January, Mark Stokes, executive director of Project 2049 Institute, served in the U.S. Air Force for 20 years. Dan Blumenthal is director of Asian studies at the American Enterprise Institute. “Can a treaty contain China's missiles?” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/31/AR2010123104108.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">With the New START… to nuclear stability.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-China war goes global</span>
<span class="Underline">Hunkovic, American Military University 2009 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">A war between China,… considered in this study.</span>


<span class="Underline">US Russia war causes extinction- assumes successful first strike</span>
<span class="Underline">Starr, 3-12-2010 [Steven, director of the University of Missouri's Clinical Laboratory Science Program, as well as a senior scientist at the Physicians for Social Responsibility. He has worked with the Swiss, Chilean, and Swedish governments in support of their efforts at the United Nations to eliminate thousands of high-alert, launch-ready U.S. and Russian nuclear weapons; he maintains the website Nuclear Darkness, “The climatic consequences of nuclear war,” http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/the-climatic-consequences-of-nuclear-war]</span>

<span class="Underline">Although the ongoing… is long overdue.</span>


==Case== 
===Solvency=== 
====General==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Space BMD fails- tech, launch capability, positioning, countermeasures</span>
<span class="Underline">UCS 11 (Union of Concerned Scientists, “ Space Based Missile Defense,” May, http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/space-based-md-factsheet-5-6-11.pdf, EMM)</span>

<span class="Underline">Space-Based Defenses:… handful of enemy missiles.</span>


<span class="Underline">States would sabotage SBMD before it was deployed</span>
<span class="Underline">DeBlois et al 4--- Bruce DeBlois is Director of Systems Integration at BAE Systems and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, Richard Garwin is IBM Fellow Emeritus at the Research Center of IBM and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, and Scott Kemp is a Fulbright Fellow to the European Union and research staff at the Program on Science and Global Security at Princeton University, Jeremy C. Marwell is a Furman Scholar at the New York University School of Law, Fall 2004, “Space Weapons; Crossing the U.S. Rubicon” International Security, Pg. 50</span>

<span class="Underline">It is well established, however,… peacetime would be undertaken.</span>

=====<span class="Underline">No Room 2NC</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">SBMD impossible- no orbital room</span>
<span class="Underline">Dr. Spinardi 9. (Graham, Senior Research Fellow for the Insitute for the Study of Science Technology and Innovation. PhD in sociology of technology. “Technological Controversy and US Ballistic Missile Defence: Star Warriers versus the Huntsville Mafia.”) http://www.stis.ed.ac.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0009/30600/SpinardiBMDTechControversyWP.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">The logistics of putting… be vulnerable to attack.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">Launch Capability 2NC</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">Insufficient launch infrastructure prevents effective SBMD</span>
<span class="Underline">Dr. Spinardi 9. (Graham, Senior Research Fellow for the Insitute for the Study of Science Technology and Innovation. PhD in sociology of technology. “Technological Controversy and US Ballistic Missile Defence: Star Warriers versus the Huntsville Mafia.”) http://www.stis.ed.ac.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0009/30600/SpinardiBMDTechControversyWP.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">Although the flight tests… a system impractical.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">Counter Measures Overwhelm 2NC</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">States can easily overwhelm a working system</span>
<span class="Underline">Grego 05 (Laura Grego, staff scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) for the Global Security Program, postdoctoral researcher at the Harvard- Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics from 1999 until 2002, March 21-22, 2005 , “WHAT SHOULD SPACE BE USED FOR? TECHNICAL GUIDELINES”, from the UNIDIR conference on nuclear disarmament) JB</span>

<span class="Underline">The global coverage that… missile defence system.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">Predicable 2NC</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">States would attack the platforms- their orbits are too predictable</span>
<span class="Underline">Grego 11 (Laura, Scientists @ the Global Security Program, “ Space-Based Missile Defense: Still a Bad Idea,” June 2, Union of Concerned Scientists, http://allthingsnuclear.org/post/6105337195/space-based-missile-defense-still-a-bad-idea, EMM)</span>

<span class="Underline">Why not just put up… handful of enemy missiles.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">Can't Detect 2NC</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">States will avoid detection- They’ll have missiles that break apart</span>
<span class="Underline">Lewis and Postol 10—PhD in experimental physics and is associate director of the Peace Studies Program at Cornell University AND professor of science, technology, and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former scientific adviser to the chief of naval operations (George and Theodore, “A Flawed and Dangerous U.S. Missile Defense Plan,” Arms Control Today, Vol. 40, Iss. 4, DA: 7/26/2011//JLENART)</span>

<span class="Underline">These test data… North Korea are the same.</span>


=====AT: SDI Proves it Works===== 
<span class="Underline">The SDI tests failed – their authors are wrong</span>
<span class="Underline">Government Accountability Office, 92 – Government Accountability Office (Government Accountability Office, September 8, 1992, Government Accounatbility Office, http://www.gao.gov/products/NSIAD-92-282)</span>

<span class="Underline">The Strategic Defense Initiative… daytime tests were never conducted.</span>



====SBLs==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Space lasers impossible- tech, vulnerability, countermeasures</span>
<span class="Underline">Kiger, 1-18-11, Patrick J., written from print publications ranging from GQ to the Los Angeles Times, and is a longtime contributor to Discovery.com, HowStuffWorks, and other web sites. He's also the author of Science Channel's Story of the Week Feature and Creator of Head Rush Science Experiments for Kids., “Is this a good idea? Military satellites equipped with death rays?” http://blogs.discovery.com/good_idea/2011/01/is-this-a-good-idea-military-satellites-equipped-with-death-rays.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The reality, though, is that… by a space-based laser.</span>


=====2NC===== 
<span class="Underline">SBL is too vulnerable and ineffective to solve</span>
<span class="Underline">Eisendrath et al. 1—senior fellow at the Center for International Policy and an adjunct professor at Temple University, Ph.D. from Harvard – and Gerald E. Marsh, former consultant to the Department of Defense, retired physicist – and Melvin A. Goodman, former senior Soviet analyst at the CIA (Craig, September 2001, “Can We Count On Missile Defense?,” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1272/is_2676_130/ai_78256881/pg_6/, RBatra)</span>

<span class="Underline">The airborne model…. well over 20 years.</span>




=Space Weaponization= 
==Counterplans== 
===ASAT Ban=== 

<span style="background-color: #f8f8ff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Montgomery Bell Academy (TN) - Galen Bullington & Kelly Haselton - Negative- Counterplans#Unilateral%20ASAT%20Ban%20CP|Unilateral ASAT Ban CP]]</span>

==Weaponization Bad== 
===Weaponization=== 
====1NC==== 
Weaponization causes extinction
Mitchell, et al 01 – has been published in journals such as The Bulletin of Atomic Sciences; The Quarterly Journal of Speech; Science, Technology, and Human Values; and Argumentation and Advocacy. Author at the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies. Research associate (2002-2006) and deputy director (2007-2008) of the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies at the University of Pittsburgh, he convened working groups such as the Working Group on Preemptive and Preventive Military Intervention, supported Ridgway Center programming, and supervised Security Sweep, Ridgway's weblog (hosted jointly with the Ford Institute for Human Security). Winner of the James A. Winans-Herbert A. Wichelns Memorial Award for Distinguished Scholarship in Rhetoric and Public Address from the National Communication. (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)


<span class="Underline">This outweighs any short term benefit of the plan</span>
<span class="Underline">Hitchens, 2 -CDI Vice President, (Theresa, April 18 “Weapons in Space: Silver Bullet or Russian Roulette? The Policy Implications of U.S. Pursuit of Space-Based Weapons”, http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/spaceweapons.cfm)</span>

<span class="Underline">China and Russia long have… a military superpower.</span>


====Turns Case==== 
=====Counter-System===== 
<span class="Underline">If another state placed an SBL in orbit it’s game over</span>
<span class="Underline">Summers 2000 (Thomas, Major of the USAF, “ HOW IS U.S. SPACE POWER JEOPARDIZED BY AN ADVERSARY’S EXPLOITATION, TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS, EMPLOYMENT AND ENGAGEMENT OF LASER ANTISATELLITE WEAPONS?,” Air Command and Staff College @ Airforce University, April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/acsc/00-172.pdf), KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Space-based lasers (SBLs)… be much easier to engage.</span>


=====Timeframe- General===== 
Space weapons will create nuclear preemption incentives before the weapons are deployed
Englehart, 8 – patent litigation attorney (Alex, “COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE TREATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS,” 17 Pac. Rim L. & Pol'y J. 133, lexis)

D. An Effective U.S…. the United States.


=====Timeframe- SBMD===== 
<span class="Underline">Here’s a tiebreaker- most optimistic predictions admit it takes five years to launch enough satellites</span>
<span class="Underline">Graham et al 6 – Founder of High Frontier and Lt General on Missile Defense (Daniel, Founder - The Late Lt. General Daniel O. Graham Director, Missile Defense - Ambassador Henry Cooper Founding Member/Director, Space Exploration and Moon Base - Dr. Klaus P. Heiss Director - Lt. Colonel Stephen J. McCormick Founding Member/Director - Brigadier General Robert C. Richardson Director - Major General (Ret.) J. Milnor Roberts, Jr. August 14th, “Space-Based Missile Defense”, http://www.highfrontier.org/Archive/hf/Space%20Based%20Missile%20Defense.doc)</span>

<span class="Underline">Thus, today’s technology… is managed effectively.</span>


<span class="Underline">China could shoot the system down today- prevents us from finishing the shield</span>
<span class="Underline">Summers 2000 (Thomas, Major of the USAF, “ HOW IS U.S. SPACE POWER JEOPARDIZED BY AN ADVERSARY’S EXPLOITATION, TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS, EMPLOYMENT AND ENGAGEMENT OF LASER ANTISATELLITE WEAPONS?,” Air Command and Staff College @ Airforce University, April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/acsc/00-172.pdf), KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Chinese Laser Capabilities…. place SBLs in orbit.33</span>


=====Ground Attack===== 
Ground based weapons will undermine our space platforms
Wilkerson, 8 – Lt. Col., published by US Army War College, (Don, “Space Power Theory: Controlling the Medium Without Weapons in Space.” U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA482300)

Ground-based space… weapons in orbit. 44


This happens in seconds- comparatively quicker than space weapons
DeBlois et al 4--- Bruce DeBlois is Director of Systems Integration at BAE Systems and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, Richard Garwin is IBM Fellow Emeritus at the Research Center of IBM and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, and Scott Kemp is a Fulbright Fellow to the European Union and research staff at the Program on Science and Global Security at Princeton University, Jeremy C. Marwell is a Furman Scholar at the New York University School of Law, Fall 2004, “Space Weapons; Crossing the U.S. Rubicon” International Security, Pg. 50

SENSOR BLINDING OR DAZZLING…. of 450 kilometers.



=====<span class="Underline">Turns Heg</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">Deterrence postures will fail in space- Heg will be net worse off post plan</span>
<span class="Underline">Hitchens 10 [Hitchens, Theresa. Director, Center for Defense Information, Leader of Space Security Project in cooperation with the Secure World Foundation. The author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” Cited by Center for Nonproliferation Studies Mountbatten Centre for “International Studies Future Security in Space: Commercial, Military, and Arms Control Trade-Offs Occasional”]</span>

<span class="Underline">The other related negative… rather than solving them.</span>


====AT: We Shoot Them Down==== 
<span class="Underline">Shooting down challengers causes backlash and space debris- turns case and ensures accidental war</span>
<span class="Underline">Krepon, 3 – president of the Stimson Center (Michael, with Christopher Clary, “Space Assurance or Space Dominance?.” The Henry L. Stimson Center, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">Advocacy of a hedging strategy… on the conventional battlefield.</span>


====AT: Defensive Weapons==== 
<span class="Underline">The plan will be seen as offensive- triggers counterbalancing and pre-emptive strikes</span>
<span class="Underline">Coffelt, 5 – Lt. Colonal; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OFUS SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. June 2005.)</span>

<span class="Underline">As there are… distinct non-military disadvantages.</span>


====AT: Deterrence Solves==== 
Weaponization creates a global environment of insecurity- this undermines the deterrent effect and guarantees war
Hoey, 6 - Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, writer for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, [Mathew, Space Review, “Military Space Systems: The Road Ahead” February 26, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1]

Many people believe… could become a reality.


Adversaries will attack even if success chances are small because the pay-off is large
Morgan, 10 - defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”
http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

The Difficulties of Denial-Based… them suffer certain limitations.


====AT: Entry Cost Solves==== 
No spending needed- other states have ASATs to shoot us down now
Van Ness Peter, 2010, PhD (Berkley), lectures on security and peace building in the Department of International Relations in the College of Asia and the Pacific at the ANU. Previously faculty at the Graduate School of International Studies, University of Denver (ASIAN PERSPECTIVE, “ THE TIME HAS COME FOR A TREATY TO BAN WEAPONS IN SPACE” Vol. 34, No. 3, 2010, pp. 215-225)

First and foremost in designing… use of ASAT weapons.


<span class="Underline">Adversaries can easily match us in space races with cheaper anti-satellites weapons- even if the csot is high, other nations will fear the worst- that leads to pre-emptive strikes and undermines dominance which is stable in the squo</span>
<span class="Underline">Krepon and Clary 3 – *director of the South Asia and Space Security programs and **director for South Asian affairs in the Office of the Secretary of Defense (Michael and Christopher, 2003, Stimson Center: “Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space” http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=105601 WSX)</span>

<span class="Underline">The coming debate over… will be discussed next.</span>


==Case== 
===Weaponization Not Inevitable=== 
====General==== 

<span class="Underline">Fear prevents weaponization internationally in the squo</span>
<span class="Underline">Krepon et al, 11 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space</span>
<span class="Underline">Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">These dilemmas are widely,… difficult to close.</span>


<span class="Underline">Even if militarization exists now—there’s a unique impact to space weaponization</span>
<span class="Underline">Logsdon, 01 (John, director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs, “Just Say Wait to Space Power”, Issues in Science in Technology)</span>

<span class="Underline">Some definitions may be… or damage a target.</span>

====US==== 
=====General===== 
<span class="Underline">The US isn’t pushing for space control in the status quo</span>
<span class="Underline">Lambeth, 11 – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">Unlike the related… on the ground.</span>


<span class="Underline">The US isn’t weaponizing space now</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper, 11 – *Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies at the Air University AND **Chairman of the Board of High Frontier. Ambassador Cooper’s long and distinguished career includes service as the first civilian Director of the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization, Chief Negotiator at the Geneva Defense and Space Talks, Assistant Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Everett and Henry, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">Despite this specific call… with successor administrations.18</span>

=====X-37B===== 
<span class="Underline">X-37B isn’t a space weapon and international checks solve fears</span>
<span class="Underline">David, 10 - been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades. He is past editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines (Leonard, “Air Force's Mystery X-37B Space Plane Fuels Speculation,” 4/12, http://www.space.com/8195-air-force-mystery-37b-space-plane-fuels-speculation.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">Mark Gubrud is a physicist… reported,? Gubrud suggested.</span>


====China==== 
=====<span class="Underline">Won't</span>===== 
China won’t weaponize space- key to its legitimacy and alliances
Houpt, 10-31-11, Danny, The Space Review, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1, KHaze

Diplomatic space policy “Space has… Nigeria and Venezuela.”14


<span class="Underline">China is solely reactionary – they don’t want to weaponize space first</span>
<span class="Underline">Zhang, 11 – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University (March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, JSTOR)</span>

<span class="Underline">Although many U.S…. goal of any great power.”</span>


<span class="Underline">China not in space race- slow program and long term projects</span>
<span class="Underline">Day, 9-12-11, Dwayne A., The Space Review, “Moon dragon,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1924/1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">This is just as true of… not in a race.</span>


<span class="Underline">China is economically dependent space- they won’t seek weaponization</span>
<span class="Underline">Cheng, 11 - Senior Asia Analyst at the CNA Corporation (Dean, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">More broadly, Chinese efforts… resources is essential.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">Bias</span>===== 
“Weaponization inevitable” claims cherry pick data and ignore competing groups within China- reject them
Houpt, 10-31-11, Danny, The Space Review, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1, KHaze

Existing literature on outer… that exist in China today.


<span class="Underline">Secrecy and bias make predicting Chinese space projects impossible- they aren’t racing the US</span>
<span class="Underline">Day, 9-12-11, Dwayne A., The Space Review, “Moon dragon,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1924/1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">But also absent from… translated into English.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">No Impact</span>===== 
China’s weaponization is only designed to deter- won’t lead to deployment
<span class="Underline">Cheng, 8-16-11, Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning,” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/08/Chinas-Space-Program-A-Growing-Factor-in-US-Security-Planning, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Testing Space Weapons. Several Chinese articles… space deterrent capacity.</span>



====Russia==== 
<span class="Underline">Russia won’t weaponize before us- only risk the plan causes backlash from them</span>
<span class="Underline">Jakhu et al, 8 – Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University (Dr. Ram, member of Secure World Foundation, “Space Security 2008.” On Governance board of the publication. http://swfound.org/media/29045/ssi2008.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">Russia’s second priority… weapons in space.136</span>


===Heg=== 
====AT: Get There First IL==== 
<span class="Underline">No impact to not being first- we’ll know about adversaries’ tests and launch afterwards</span>
<span class="Underline">Grego and Wright, 10 – *Laura, senior scientist in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, **David, senior scientist and co-director of the UCS Global Security Program (“Securing the Skies,” Union of Concerned Scientists, Nov. 2010, www.ucsusa.org/securingtheskies) KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States would face… any undetected satellites.</span>


<span class="Underline">Space missions don’t lead to long term leadership- Kennedy, Bush prove</span>
<span class="Underline">Collins, 2011, John M., Distinguished Visiting Research Fellow in the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University. Previously, he was a Senior Specialist in National Defense for the Congressional Research Service, specializing in the U.S.-Soviet military balance, military strategy, and planning. Mr. Collins retired as a colonel from the U.S. Army. He holds Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in geography from the University of Kansas City and Clark University, respectively. “U.S. Military Spacepower: Conceptual Underpinnings and Practices,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">President John Fitzgerald… a few Moon landings.</span>


=Defensive Countermeasures= 
==Solvency== 
===Small Sats=== 
<span class="Underline">Mini-satellites don’t solve- no tech, military won’t use it, industrial base can’t make it</span>
<span class="Underline">Harrison, 2009, Ambassador Roger G. Harrison, Allan & Malcolm Lockheed and Glenn L. Martin Professor of Space and Defense Studies and Director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy. Dr. Harrison received his Ph.D. in Government from Claremont Graduate School. He had previously done graduate work at Pembroke College, Oxford University and undergraduate studies at the Free University of Berlin. Dr. Harrison’s undergraduate degree in Political Science was awarded by San Jose State University in 1965. “Space Deterrence: The Delicate Balance of Risk,” http://web.mac.com/rharrison5/Eisenhower_Center_for_Space_and_Defense_Studies/Space_Deterrence_files/Space_and_Defense_3_1%20Space%20Deterrence.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">There are, however, reasons for… in the private sector.</span>


<span class="Underline">Smallsats don’t solve- no empirical evidence or manufacturing base</span>
<span class="Underline">Fuller, 2011, Joseph, founder and President of Futron Corporation, which specializes in innovative business and technology solutions for aerospace, defense, and transportation. He has 20 years of experience with NASA as an aerospace systems engineer, project manager, and senior executive. While at NASA, Mr. Fuller contributed to the Gemini, Apollo, Skylab, Space Shuttle, TIROS/NOAA, and Space Station programs. Mr. Fuller received a Bachelor of Science degree in physics from Texas Southern University and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Houston. “The Commercial Space Industry: A Critical Spacepower Consideration,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Small satellites are a… has been demonstrated.</span>