[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Glenbrooks== 

===Plan Text=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should give recognition, certification, and full legal support to extra-terrestrial property ownership claims by any private entity based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

===Economy Adv=== 

**Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
Currently, most ventures are performed … - of-right to the final product.

**Conflicting interpretations of the OST have brought private space development to a halt – the aff fills a vacuum in current space legislation and causes massive commercial space development**
Alan **Wasser and** Douglas **Jobes**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **2008** Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW
IV. RECOGNITION OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP … on natural and civil law.

**Most accurate indicators say econ collapse is coming now – prefer our evidence, it’s most qualified and predictive**
**Sommer – 10/8** (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business]]</span>) CJC
LET’S face it: economic forecasting is … they have now, he says.

**Additional job creation is critical to brace us from European collapse**
**Boak – 11/15** (Josh Boak is an economics reporter; “Eurozone's woes could damage U.S.”; November 15, 2011; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1111/68437.html]]</span>) CJC
President Barack Obama and the … people back on the job.”

**Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space**
Ezra J. **Reinstein**, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, **1999**, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59
Space offers the potential for … for a long time to come.

**Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment**
**Jobes 5** (Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” Space Times, volume: 44, May/June, p. 10)
And what would motivate Congress … will be a space construction boom."

**Space holds the key to the next industrial revolution**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
"The Environment of space … kind of change is needed.

**Economic decline causes global war**
**Royal 10 –** Director of CTR
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs**
**Griswold 5** (Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, Free Trade, 12.29.5, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282)
Many causes lie behind the … with its own peace dividend.

**Transition away from growth causes wars—no alternative**
**Gubrud 97**** (Mark Avrum. Center for superconductivity research. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foresight.org/COnferences/MNT05/Papers/Gubrud/index.html]]</span>)
With molecular manufacturing, international trade … some form of nationalistic imperialism.

===OST Adv=== 

**The Outer Space Treaty is on the cusp of failure. Ambiguities have made the treaty weak, and shifting international opinions on space property rights have made it unpopular. The outdated treaty makes private investment impossible and a mass exodus from the treaty likely.**
**Quinn 8** (Adam G., J.D./M.B.A. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,” Minnesota Journal of International Law, Summer)
Because the drafters of the … a substantive set of space laws.

**Commercial activity in space makes mass OST withdrawal inevitable in the status quo – countries will withdraw to avoid property rights questions**
**Dinkin 4** (Sam, Ph.D. economist, July 12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/179/1)
The Outer Space Treaty may … to grow up after all.

**One withdrawal from the OST causes others to follow and kills development.**
**Gabrynowicz 7** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, October 22, http://rescommunis.wordpress.com/2007/10/22/the-outer-space-treaty-still-relevant-and-important-after-all-these-years/)
Finally, the motive for the … the political will to do so.

**Total OST withdrawal undermines the foundation of the entire space treaty regime – clarification over property rights is required to avoid legal instability.**
**Gabrynowicz 5** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf)
As regards to property rights … eliminating the existing legal structure.

**OST consultation process is key to dissuading weaponizers and avoiding misunderstandings from escalating to conflict.**
**Marder 8** (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe New Life into Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty,” June 2008, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/ChineseASATtest.pdf)
Finally, the most valuable benefit … a weaponized space is a present threat.

**Weaponizing space prompts Russia and China to put their weapons on hair trigger alert – leads to high risk of nuclear terrorism, accidental war, and unauthorized launch.**
**Lewis, 04** – Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM), Jeffrey, July, 2004, “What if Space Were Weaponized?: Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios”, pg. 22-24, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf, CDI)
The Russians already continue to … China to do the opposite

**Extinction**
**Bostrom 2** (Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>)
The first manmade existential risk … encounter in the 21st century.

**Now is key to fill the gaps in the space treaty with national laws like the plan – empirically solves in space.**
**Gabrynowicz 5** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf)
The second option for modifying … that quits forfeits the game.

**I-Law precedent indicates the first country to interpret a treaty will set a pattern that other countries follow.**
Alan **Wasser** and Douglas **Jobes**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **2008** Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW
Some experts argue that the … the de facto international standard. 93

**Aff solves – US unilateral action is best and complies with existing precedent.**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
The problems with international methods … agreed-upon international regime." n372

**The US’s position as a leader in space means that our national policies are the main influence on international legal frameworks.**
**Porras – 6** ( Daniel A. Porras, J.D., Associate Officer International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, focused on International Land and Outer Space Law; “The "Common Heritage" of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”; California Western International Law Journal; 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143; Fall, 2006; Lexis) CJC
Man has been exploring his … frameworks are adopted or rejected.

**The lack of an explicit ban on private property rights in the OST means that there’s no ban – other nations and legal scholars agree.**
**Brittingham** – Professor – **10** (Bryon C. Brittingham, J.D., Teacher of Business, Law, and English for a Specific Purpose (ESP) course in various countries to professionals at overseas universities; “Does the World Really Need New Space Law?”; OREGON REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL LAW; Vol. 12, 31; 2010; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.uoregon.edu/org/oril/docs/12-1/brittingham.pdf]]</span>) CJC
Assuming that “the province of … the possibility of private claims. 54

**Government interpretation of increasing exploration and/or development means recognition of property rights in space.**
**Sattler** – Space Enterprise Council – **5** (Rosanna Sattler, Esq. is a Partner with Posternak Blankstein & Lund LLP in Boston, Massachusetts. She is a commercial litigator, and chairs the firm's Space Law and Telecommunications Group. Ms. Sattler is a member of the Board of Directors of the US Chamber of Commerce, and she is Chair of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Inc. She is also a member of the Space Enterprise Council and the Forum on Air and Space Law of the American Bar Association; “Symposium: Issues in Space Law: Transporting a Legal System for Property Rights: From the Earth to the Stars”; Chicago Journal of International Law; 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 23; Summer, 2005; Lexis) CJC
By the year 2020, humans will … develop space resources and infrastructure. n7

**Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts, even if it has no economic role whatsoever**
**Sen, 2000** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)
Before I go on to the … the class of causal connections.

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ohio Valley</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Ohio Valley-Plan]]Plan</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should recognize, certify, and give full legal support to extra-terrestrial property rights on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Ohio Valley-Econ Adv]]Econ Adv</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Most accurate indicators say econ collapse is coming now – prefer our evidence, it’s most qualified and predictive</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sommer – 10/8</span>** (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011;<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business]]</span>) CJC
LET’S face it: economic forecasting is … they have now, he says.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured</span>**
Ty **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Twibell</span>**, J.D. Candidate, **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1998</span>**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
Currently, most ventures are performed … - of-right to the final product.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space</span>**
Ezra J. **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reinstein</span>**, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1999</span>**, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59
Space offers the potential for … for a long time to come..

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jobes 5</span>** (Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” Space Times, volume: 44, May/June, p. 10) HD
And what would motivate Congress … will be a space construction boom."

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space holds the key to the next industrial revolution—one asteroid is worth $1 trillion, helium-3 energy provides infinite energy, unique environment of space benefits the medicine and biotech industries</span>**
Ty **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Twibell</span>**, J.D. Candidate, **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1998</span>**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
"The Environment of space … kind of change is needed.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes global war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Royal 10</span>** – Director of CTR
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs</span>**
Griswold 5 (Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, Free Trade, 12.29.5, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.freetrade.org/node/282]]</span>)
Many causes lie behind the … with its own peace dividend.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transition away from growth kills millions—we can’t shut the system off</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Barnhizer 6</span>** (David R., Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law; “Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government.” 2006 Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. 18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595 L/N)

We face a combination of ecological, … the pattern once again intensifies.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Ohio Valley-Space Race Adv]]Space Race Adv</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New global space race is coming now. Failure of a clear legal system will ensure major conflict to protect countries interests.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hatch – 10</span>** (Benjamin D. Hatch, J.D., Editor Emory International Law Review Executive Notes and Comments, Emory Law Review Founder’s Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, J.D. with Honors, Counselor at Law for The Law Office of Benjamin D. Hatch, PLLC; “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: The Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime”; Emory International Law Review; 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229; 2010; Lexis, CJC
Probably more relevant than the … , as Part II will demonstrate.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Continued ambiguity of the OST ensures power wars on the Moon over He3. Plan is necessary to prevent this.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hatch – 10</span>** (Benjamin D. Hatch, J.D., Editor Emory International Law Review Executive Notes and Comments, Emory Law Review Founder’s Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, J.D. with Honors, Counselor at Law for The Law Office of Benjamin D. Hatch, PLLC; “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: The Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime”; Emory International Law Review; 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229; 2010; Lexis, CJC
A return of humans to … challenges of the next century.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Otherwise states will ignore and collapse the OST. This leads to a free-for-all in space.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hatch – 10</span>** (Benjamin D. Hatch, J.D., Editor Emory International Law Review Executive Notes and Comments, Emory Law Review Founder’s Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, J.D. with Honors, Counselor at Law for The Law Office of Benjamin D. Hatch, PLLC; “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: The Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime”; Emory International Law Review; 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229; 2010; Lexis, CJC
While the phrase "common heritage … states to make such a choice.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That turns the moon into the Wild West – guarantees World War 3.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hatch – 10</span>** (Benjamin D. Hatch, J.D., Editor Emory International Law Review Executive Notes and Comments, Emory Law Review Founder’s Award for Excellence in Legal Research and Writing, J.D. with Honors, Counselor at Law for The Law Office of Benjamin D. Hatch, PLLC; “Dividing the Pie in the Sky: The Need for a New Lunar Resources Regime”; Emory International Law Review; 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229; 2010; Lexis, CJC
DO-NOTHING systems impose no … lead to World War III.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space war causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mitchell et al 1</span>** - Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)
A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan will be modeled internationally</span>**
Alan **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wasser and</span>** Douglas **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jobes</span>**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter</span> **2008** <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Some experts argue that the … the de facto international standard. 93</span>

**There’s a precedent**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ty</span> **Twibell**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, J.D. Candidate,</span> **1998****, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
The problems with international methods … agreed-upon international regime." n372

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Ohio Valley-Colonization Adv]]Colonization Adv</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Governments won’t colonize – cost, politics, and current policies</span>**
van **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ballegoyen 2k</span>** (R.F., LL.M, “Ownership of the Moon and Mars? The "land-grant" act as means of stimulating human settlement of celestial bodies”, Ad Astra,The Magazine of the National Space Society, January/February, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/research_library/BallegoyenOwn.pdf]]</span>, KF)
It is clear that private … to make this opportunity possible.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Private companies also won’t colonize without property rights – legal uncertainty and lack of profitability prevents it – only the plan solves and spurs space settlement</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span>** (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span> | Suo)
HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on moving … or any other legal violation.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Numerous existential threats make extinction on Earth inevitable – only space colonization solves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Popular Science 11</span>** (March, “After Earth: Why? Where? How? When?” p. 46, Vol. 278, No. 3)
Earth won't always be fit … off the Earth than on it."

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sen, 2000</span>** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)
Before I go on to the … the class of causal connections.

==1AC Westside== 

===PLAN=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should recognize, certify, and give full legal support to extra-terrestrial property rights on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

===Econ=== 

**Replaced the first piece of Twibell evidence [****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible] with - </span>**

**Space race for investment is coming now, but legal uncertainty prevents it – plan solves**
**Zell 6** – JD Candidate (2007) @ UMinnesota; BA (2004) from Univ South Dakota (Jeremy, “Putting a Mine on the Moon: Creating an International Authority to Regulate Mining Rights in Outer Space, 15 Minn. J. Int’l L. 489, lexis) **Barstow Debate does not condone the use of gendered language in this article.

Today, a twenty-first century space … seen as a science fiction fantasy.


===Colonization=== 

**Extinction is inevitable – seven reasons**
**Popular Science 11** (March, “After Earth: Why? Where? How? When?” p. 46, Vol. 278, No. 3) Barstow Debate does not support the gendered language in this article. Text edited by Joseph Lenart III.
Earth won't always be fit … off the Earth than on it."

**Delay in colonization results in energy wastage equivalent to 100 trillion potential humans per second**
**Bostrom 3** **–** Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University [Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]]</span>]

As I write these words, suns … of colonization of our supercluster.[6]

**Government efforts at colonization fail – only property rights provides the economic incentive necessary for colonization of the Moon and Mars by private entities who are willing to foot the bill**
**Wasser and Jobes 8** – Chairman of Space Settlement Institute and former CEO of National Space Society AND President of the Space Settlement Institute and has published in the Space Review (Alan and Douglas, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf, DA: 10/4/2011//JLENART)//
HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on moving … or any other legal violation.

Colonization is feasible ---

**a) Plenty of planets with water**
**Kazan 11** – owner of Galaxy Media LLC and BA from Harvard; writer for the Daily Galaxy (Casey, “Is Colonizing Mars an Imperative? USA's New Space Strategy Says ‘Yes,’” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2010/02/s-colonizing-space-an-imperative-obamas-new-space-strategy-says-yes-lays-groundwork-for-human-space-.html]]</span>, DA: 12/20/2011JLENART)
Eventually, Hawking said, humanity should … solar system's neighbourhood, he said.

**b) We have the tech and energy to survive for the long haul – physics isn’t an issue**
**NSS 11** (National Space Society, non-profit space organization, “Space Settlement,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/]]</span>, 5/17/11)
“The people of Earth … lifetimes of those now living.

**c) The Moon – it’s colonizable and can serve as a launching pad to other destinations**
**Bryner 09** (Jeanna, senior writer for Space, “Water Discovery Fuels Hope to Colonize the Moon” November 13, http://www.space.com/7532-water-discovery-fuels-hope-colonize-moon.html)
Hopes, dreams and practical plans … moon," Burns told SPACE.com.

**d) Mars – it allows for crop development, can develop energy sources, and has key elements for survival – terraforming solves**
**Zubrin 96**—former Chairman of the National Space Society and President of the Mars Society (Robert, “The Case for Colonizing Mars,” Ad Astra Magazine, July/August 1996, http://nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.html)
Among extraterrestrial bodies in our … to grow crops for export.

**e) Artificial gravity overwhelms their microgravity takeouts**
**IAA 9** (International Academy of Aeronautics, non-governmental organization recognized by the UN, founded in 1960 to foster the development of astronautics for peaceful purposes, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%202/sg22/sg22finalreportr.pdf)
To succeed in the near-… appropriate application of artificial gravity.

**f) Sex is possible on other planets**
**The Week 11**—American magazine writing about science and technology (2/17/11, “Why humans will never colonize space,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://theweek.com/article/index/212267/why-humans-will-never-colonize-space]]</span>, DA: 1/5/2012//JLENART)
Has anyone had sex in … away from Earth after all.

**g) Special greenhouses in space sustain vegetation**
**Space.com ‘10**
(SPACE.com, latest space … plant colonies on the moon."


===Solvency=== 

**The plan would be modeled internationally – empirics**
Alan **Wasser** and Douglas **Jobes**, Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **2008** Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW
Some experts argue that the … the de facto international standard. 93

**Precedent exists for US action first on property rights**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
The problems with international methods … with principles in analogous law

­sharing the res communis character … agreed-upon international regime." n372


**Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts and should frame your understanding of development**
**Sen 2k** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)
Before I go on to the … the class of causal connections.

==1AC Heritage Hall== 
Same as Westside with one added card at the end:

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Disregard evidence from Gangale – he wrote those articles before researching the topic, he retracted his claims in 2009, admitted his bias, and now fully supports space property rights</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gangale – 9</span>** (Thomas Gangale, same one they are reading; This is written in response to a review of his book The Development of Outer Space: Soveriegnty and Property Rights in International Space Law; “Convenient Untruths From a Space Priest”; 02 SEPTEMBER 2009; [[http://tgangale1.blogspot.com/2009/09/convenient-untruths-from-space-priest.html]]) CJC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The most open-minded statements in Dinerman's review are "Gangale may have the law on his side...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What is Truth?" For me, it is a journey, and certainly not a predetermined destination.</span>

And this plan text:
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should recognize, certify, and give full legal support to extra-terrestrial property rights based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**


==1AC Harvard== 
Same as Heritage Hall with one added card on colonization:

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">h) Radiation can be shielded cost-effectively</span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Benaroya</span>**, Haym (</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ph.D., Structures, Mechanics, Probabilistic Methods, University of Pennsylvania)</span>**<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">’10</span>** Taylor and Francis Group publications “Lunar Settlements”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Because structures in Phase 1 will not be designed to shelter ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">materials that are relatively resistant to radiation, or radiation-hardened materials (Parnell et al., 1998).</span>

And a new econ uniqueness card to replace Sommer:

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Growth is stagnant and slipping – depression is coming</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Babones – 12</span>** (Salvatore Babones is a senior lecturer in sociology and social policy at the University of Sydney and an associate fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies; “Good News and Bad News about GDP Growth”; January 27, 2012; http://www.ips-dc.org/blog/good_news_and_bad_news_about_gdp_growth) CJC
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Americans are in for a long, hard slog. The</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. ...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Depression or no depression, Americans are in for a long, hard slog.</span>

==Harvard - New Aff (Round 6)== 
===Solvency=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Advanced Stirling Radioisotope Generator, a power source for space missions, is at a tipping point now – must be sustained investment over the next five years</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith – 12</span>** (Marcia S. Smith, editor of Space Policy Online, formerly conducted research and analysis for 31 year for the Congressional Research Service; “NRC Prioritizes 16 Technologies for NASA Development, Calls Again for Pu-238 Restart”; 01-Feb-2012; [[http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/news/nrc-prioritizes-16-technologies-for-nasa-development-calls-again-for-pu-238-restart]]) CJC
__The National Research Council__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (NRC) </span>__… is NASA that needs the Pu-238.__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plutonium-238 is critical to all of NASA’s power needs – studies show no other isotopes work. Plutonium-238 is not being produced by any country, supplies are running low, and Congress hasn’t provided funding to restart production</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Colladay et al – 12</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Raymond S. Colladay Chair Committee on NASA Space Technology Roadmaps and Priorities, Steering Committee; The committee is made up of experts in various panels to study and report on their areas of expertise, The National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, and National Research Council are private, nonprofit institutions that provide expert advice on some of the most pressing challenges facing the nation and the world. Known collectively as the National Academies, our organization produces groundbreaking reports that have helped shape sound policies, inform public opinion, and advance the pursuit of science, engineering, and medicine; “NASA Space Technology Roadmaps and Priorities: Restoring NASA's Technological Edge and Paving the Way for a New Era in Space”; 2012; ISBN 978-0-309-25362-8; [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=13354]]) CJC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Radioisotope power systems (RPSs) provide … system development and spacecraft integration.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">P-238 is key to Mars rovers, Lunar probes, and every mission beyond the asteroid belt – low supplies are already causing cancellation of future missions</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foust, 2011</span>** (Jeff, coauthor of the … </span>planetary missions after this decade.”

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves:</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. ASRGs use 4 times less P-238 than current technology, reducing the strain on our reserves, and</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. ASRG development forces a restart in domestic production of P-238</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council – 9 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, and National Research Council are private, nonprofit institutions that provide expert advice on some of the most pressing challenges facing the nation and the world. Known collectively as the National Academies, our organization produces groundbreaking reports that have helped shape sound policies, inform public opinion, and advance the pursuit of science, engineering, and medicine. Committee Members for the report include: William W. Hoover, former Assistant Secretary, Defense Programs, Department of Energy , where he was responsible for the U.S. nuclear weapons development program, including production, research, testing, safety, and security. He is also a Major General, USAF (retired), and a former chair of the NRC’s Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board; Ralph L. McNutt Jr., senior space physicist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory; SAMIM ANGHAIE is a professor of nuclear and radiological engineering at the University of Florida, where he also is director of the Innovative Nuclear Space Power and Propulsion Institute; RETA F. BEEBE is a professor in the Astronomy Department at New Mexico State University; WARREN W. BUCK, an internationally known theoretical physicist, is professor of Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences and chancellor emeritus at the University of Washington, Bothell; EVERLY A. COOK is currently the Jet Propulsion Laboratory’s Planning and Integration Manager for the Deep Space Network (DSN) Program; SPENCER R. TITLEY (NAE) is a professor in the Department of Geosciences at the University of Arizona; “RADIOISOTOPE POWER SYSTEMS: An Imperative for Maintaining U.S. Leadership in Space Exploration”; 2009; [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12653&page=1]]) CJC</span>
<span class="Underline">DEVELOPMENT OF A FLIGHT-READY ADVANCED … ASRG in space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (e.g., on Discovery 12).</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund development of the Advanced Stirling Radioisotope Generator and deploy ASRGs for all possible future space exploration missions.</span>**</span>

===Colonization=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. Key to missions on the surface of the Moon and Mars</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cataldo & Bennett – 11</span>** (Robert L. Cataldo,<span style="color: #222222;"> Advanced Space Analysis Office</span> NASA Glenn Research Center & Gary L. Bennett, Metaspace Enterprises, American scientist and engineer, specializing in aerospace and energy.[1] He has worked for NASA and the US Department of Energy (DOE) on advanced space power systems and advanced space propulsion systems; “U.S. Space Radioisotope Power Systems and Applications: Past, Present and Future”; Radioisotopes - Applications in Physical Sciences, ISBN 978-953-307-510-5, publishing date: October 2011; [[http://www.intechopen.com/source/pdfs/21663/InTech-U_s_space_radioisotope_power_systems_and_applications_past_present_and_future.pdf]]) CJC
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To this point, discussions have … </span>__many follow-on missions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cataldo, 2009).</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. RTGs are the only power source capable of producing steady amounts of power for long periods of time not contingent upon outside conditions – that makes them critical for every interplanetary colonization mission</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campbell et. al, 2009</span>** (Michael, M.D. Campbell and Associates, Jeffrey King, M.D. Campbell and Associates, Henry Wise, consultant, Bruce Handley, M.D. Campbell and Associates, M. David Campbell, Environmental Resources Management, “The Role of Nuclear Power in Space Exploration and the Associated Environmental Issues: An Overview”, [[http://www.searchanddiscovery.com/documents/2009/80053campbell/ndx_campbell.pdf]], 11/19/2009)
__A space exploration mission requires …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of large amounts of energy.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. No P-238 short-circuits every planned NASA mission to other planets – makes colonization impossible</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council – 9 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, and National Research Council are private, nonprofit institutions that provide expert advice on some of the most pressing challenges facing the nation and the world. Known collectively as the National Academies, our organization produces groundbreaking reports that have helped shape sound policies, inform public opinion, and advance the pursuit of science, engineering, and medicine. Committee Members for the report include: William W. Hoover, former Assistant Secretary, Defense Programs, Department of Energy , where he was responsible for the U.S. nuclear weapons development program, including production, research, testing, safety, and security. He is also a Major General, USAF (retired), and a former chair of the NRC’s Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board; Ralph L. McNutt Jr., senior space physicist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory; SAMIM ANGHAIE is a professor of nuclear and radiological engineering at the University of Florida, where he also is director of the Innovative Nuclear Space Power and Propulsion Institute; RETA F. BEEBE is a professor in the Astronomy Department at New Mexico State University; WARREN W. BUCK, an internationally known theoretical physicist, is professor of Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences and chancellor emeritus at the University of Washington, Bothell; EVERLY A. COOK is currently the Jet Propulsion Laboratory’s Planning and Integration Manager for the Deep Space Network (DSN) Program; SPENCER R. TITLEY (NAE) is a professor in the Department of Geosciences at the University of Arizona; “RADIOISOTOPE POWER SYSTEMS: An Imperative for Maintaining U.S. Leadership in Space Exploration”; 2009; [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12653&page=1]]) CJC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMMEDIATE ACTION IS REQUIRED </span><span class="Underline">The … </span>lunar rover, and subsequent missions.

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. </span></span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">RTGs are critical to lunar water mining and base camps. You can’t have any of those without the initial robotic investigation which requires dependable nuclear power</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wall & Stone – 11</span>** (Mike Wall, Stoneby Mike Wall, SPACE.com Senior Writer; Bill Stone, CEO and founder Shackleton Energy Co; “Mining the Moon's Water: Q & A with Shackleton Energy's Bill”; 13 January 2011; [[http://www.space.com/10619-mining-moon-water-bill-stone-110114.html]]) CJC
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE.com: You've been thinking … human lunar insertion and landings.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lunar water mining is a critical internal link to colonization</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wall & Stone – 11</span>** (Mike Wall, Stoneby Mike Wall, SPACE.com Senior Writer; Bill Stone, CEO and founder Shackleton Energy Co; “Mining the Moon's Water: Q & A with Shackleton Energy's Bill”; 13 January 2011; [[http://www.space.com/10619-mining-moon-water-bill-stone-110114.html]]) CJC
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE.com: What would you … </span>need to learn these skills.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction is inevitable – seven reasons</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Popular Science 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(March, “After Earth: Why? Where? How? When?” p. 46, Vol. 278, No. 3) **Barstow Debate does not support the gendered language in this article. Text edited by Joseph Lenart III.**</span>
__Earth won't always be fit …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">off the Earth than on it."</span>

===NASA Leadership=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No plutonium means no space missions – that devastates NASA leadership and credibility and creates a “lost generation” of planetary scientists</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones – 11</span>** (Richard M. Jones, American Institute of Physics; “AIP Supports Resumption of Pu-238 Production”; FYI: The AIP Bulletin of Science Policy News, Number 81 - July 5, 2011; [[http://www.aip.org/fyi/2011/081.html]]) CJC
__Pu-238 is__ __a non-weapons grade … planetary missions after this decade__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lack of 238 will prevent future space exploration missions. 238 production is critical to NASA science and US space leadership.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chow – 11</span>** (Denise Chow, SPACE.com staff writer; “Mars Mission May Be Curtain Call for Plutonium-Powered Spacecraft”; 11/23/2011; [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45414529/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/mars-mission-may-be-curtain-call-plutonium-powered-spacecraft/]]) CJC
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA's newest Mars rover, Curiosity, … yet to be adequately tested.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Setting the precedent in space is key to US heg</span>**
Christopher <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stone</span> (is a space policy analyst and strategist who lives near Washington DC) 3/14/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span> “American Leadership in space : leadership through capability” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1]] RM
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, let me start by … a decision sooner rather than later. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hegemony is key to prevent great power war</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhang* and Shi** 11</span>.** (Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and **Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) </span>[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul Kennedy was probably right: … </span><span class="Underline">devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is the biggest internal link to space leadership – any delay magnifies our impacts</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council – 9 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, and National Research Council are private, nonprofit institutions that provide expert advice on some of the most pressing challenges facing the nation and the world. Known collectively as the National Academies, our organization produces groundbreaking reports that have helped shape sound policies, inform public opinion, and advance the pursuit of science, engineering, and medicine. Committee Members for the report include: William W. Hoover, former Assistant Secretary, Defense Programs, Department of Energy , where he was responsible for the U.S. nuclear weapons development program, including production, research, testing, safety, and security. He is also a Major General, USAF (retired), and a former chair of the NRC’s Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board; Ralph L. McNutt Jr., senior space physicist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory; SAMIM ANGHAIE is a professor of nuclear and radiological engineering at the University of Florida, where he also is director of the Innovative Nuclear Space Power and Propulsion Institute; RETA F. BEEBE is a professor in the Astronomy Department at New Mexico State University; WARREN W. BUCK, an internationally known theoretical physicist, is professor of Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences and chancellor emeritus at the University of Washington, Bothell; EVERLY A. COOK is currently the Jet Propulsion Laboratory’s Planning and Integration Manager for the Deep Space Network (DSN) Program; SPENCER R. TITLEY (NAE) is a professor in the Department of Geosciences at the University of Arizona; “RADIOISOTOPE POWER SYSTEMS: An Imperative for Maintaining U.S. Leadership in Space Exploration”; 2009; [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12653&page=1]]) CJC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE PROBLEM </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plutonium-238 does not … the future demand for 238Pu.</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]