[[toc]]
For boring aff cites, [[mailto:chouleslie25@gmail.com|chouleslie25@gmail.com]] OR her preferred gmail, [[mailto:puddipuddi@gmail.com|puddichoupuddi@gmail.com]] (although you might not get an answer back if you email the puddi one)

neg stuff = [[mailto:jkhanna3@gmail.com|jkhanna3@gmail.com]] , hitmeup boyz ;D

=Affirmative= 
===**1AC Wake**=== 
====**1AC Power Projection**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable to asymmetric deception, disruption, degradation, and destruction </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;"> 11 January 2007</span>... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">adversary attack capabilities. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">These vulnerabilities make space weaponization and conflict inevitable – potential adversaries will attempt to level the playing field by attacking U.S. space systems, which guarantees rapid escalation </span>**


**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Given the great ... and rapid escalation.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">4</span>


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Even conflicts not involving the U.S. would wipe our satellites out of the sky </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Smith, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (M.V., USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University, Served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office, Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">Spacefaring prowess is a common ... in the minds of commanders.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The lack of effective satellite defense jeopardizes the war-fighting function of our military; space vulnerabilities paralyze communication, intelligence, surveillance, targeting, and coordination </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kittfield, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (James, Senior Correspondent at the National Journal, “Crowded Congested Space”, Air Force Magazine, August, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">In the “commons” above ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">by buying time on commercial satellites. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Stable and secure satellite networks are critical to our military’s ability to project power </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Space assets are ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">military</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;"> over the last decade.5 </span>


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Collapse of power projection triggers great power nuclear wars</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Zhang and Shi, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">This does not necessarily mean .. devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">U.S. military predominance prevents multiple scenarios for catastrophic nuclear violence </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kagan, 2007</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Robert, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Policy Review, August/September)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">If the world is marked by the ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">provide an easier path.</span>**__

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Their impact turns are non-starters – the U.S. will always attempt to maintain hegemony </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Shalmon and Horowitz, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Dan, Mike, Total B.A.’s, Orbis, Spring)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">It is important to recognize </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">... America’s role in the global order.24 </span>


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Diplomacy and soft-power are not substitutes for needed satellite hardening – only the plan maintains U.S. power projection </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Haddick, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space”, Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">The U.S. Department of Defense ... for the Pentagon's budget masters.</span>

====**1AC China**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The PLA is intent on aggressively competing with U.S. power in space – they are in the process of developing military capabilities and combat strategies that would neutralize our satellite network, collapse nuclear deterrence and guarantee catastrophic conflict </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Fisher, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Richard D., Senior Fellow at the International Assessment and Strategy Center, January 20, http://www.strategycenter.net/research/pubID.222/pub_detail.asp)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">China's</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;"> Jan. 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">test of exoatmospheric...</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">threaten</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> the region's </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">economic growth. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">All indicators point to an attack on U.S. assets in space – such a move will rapidly escalate into full-scale U.S.-China war. Our scenario should be methodologically preferred and none-of-their advantage counterplans solve </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wortzel, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Larry, Ret. Colonel United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare”, Astropolitics 6; 112-137) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The PLA is exploring</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">in theoretical research ... </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to space in any future conflict.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Separation between the PLA and the Chinese government makes crisis-escalation and miscalculation extremely likely</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">MacDonald, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Bruce, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program at the U.S. Institute of Peace, “Military and Civil Space Programs in China”, CQ Congressional Testimony, May 11, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">Miscalculation ignites the tinder of fundamental ... and strategically quite undesirable. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Deterrence theory supports our advantage; China isn’t deterred from attacking us because they know that we wouldn’t be able to retaliate. Perception that our space systems are vulnerable collapses conventional and nuclear deterrence</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Burke, 2006</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Alan, Lt. Colonel – Space Command, U.S. Air Force, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The erosion of the US ability ... without fear of retribution.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">57 </span>


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">U.S.-China satellite warfare guarantees nuclear escalation </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Forden, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Geoffrey, MIT Research Associate, Former UN Weapons Inspector, and Strategic Weapons Analyst with the Congressional Budget Office, “How China Loses the Coming Space War”, January 10, http://blog.wired.com/defense/2008/01/inside-the-chin.html#more)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The U</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">nited </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">tates </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">has</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">five ... without a clear military goal. </span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Extinction</span>**</span>

<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Straits Times, 2k</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> (June 25)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;"> high-intensity </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">scenario... we would see the destruction of civilisation</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Even a limited war would annihilate the planet </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Takai, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">What would happen<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> if China launched ... </span>heeding by nuclear hard-liners. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Space is unique – none of their generic U.S.-China defense applies </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dolman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Everett, Ph.D. and Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”, September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576,) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">The coming war with China will ... satellites within range, cheaply and effectively.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We’ll preempt their counterplan – space arms control fails – insurmountable verification problems prove that arms control has no hope of preventing U.S.-China space conflict </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">O’Hanlon, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Michael, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, “Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space”, Chapter Twenty One from “Toward a Theory of Space Power”, Ed. Charles Lutes & Peter Hays, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">One type of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">arms control </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">accord ... such a weapon cannot be ruled out. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Our plan is based on the most methodologically sound understanding of China. Competing views either misdiagnose the situation or misapply theory</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Siddall, 2000</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12px;"> (Alexandra Siddall, Second Secretary, Embassy of Australia in Russia, Ph.D., Department of Government, University of Queensland, “The Misapplication of Defensive Realism: the Security Dilemma and Rising Powers in East Asia”, Paper \Presented at the 42nd Australian Political Studies Association Annual Conference, 10-5-2000, apsa2000.anu.edu.au/confpapers/siddell.rtf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">The difficulty for defensive realists is ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">beginning of the twenty-first century.</span>

====**1AC – Plan Text**==== 

**Thus the plan –**
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of nanosatellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere through the Multipurpose NanoMissile System.**

====**1AC – Solvency**==== 

**Solvency – The Multipurpose NanoMissile System is key to rapid reconstruction funding is only obsticle**
**Hawkins, 2011** (Kari, Assistant Editor of … _PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)

Currently, there are plans to … will adapt to this technology.”


**And – Only our Aff solves**
**Rendleman, 2010 (**James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air … , “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 2: 220-225)

A robust and responsive space … , as needed, activate on-orbit spares.


**And – Nanosatellites are key – they are survivable, they guarantee a low probability of detection, they have good signal strength in Low-Earth-Orbit, they adapt to changing environments, all while being affordable and maintaining economies of scale**
**London, 2010** (John R. London III, US … ?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA534645)

Constellations of nanosatellites/ [ … ] Through these demonstrations the command hopes to validate the utility of the emerging trend in satellite miniaturization for the tactical land warfighter.



**And – the plan discourages attacks from happening in the first place**
**Schendzielos, 2008** (Kurt, Major in the U.S. … ?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553)

The first and most obvious … against ASATs and space weapons.



===2AC=== 

====H-Triv==== 

**Trivialization of the holocaust is a logical fallacy and a d rule- reject them**
**Curtis 4** (Gary. Fallacy Files “Ad Nazium” http://www.fallacyfiles.org/adnazium.html)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">In almost </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">every heated debate... it is often "fighting words". </span>







=Negative= 
==Disadvantages== 
===Smacemil DA=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring,[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8px;">As is well understood, the space … Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dant, 11** - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,”[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">Cooperation for contested and .. leadership of the coalition of responsible space-faring nations.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern …</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6.66px;"> likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mitchell, et al 1** -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__A buildup of space weapons .. military conflict ever seen.__</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Politics - Payroll tax cuts__</span>=== 
**Tax cuts will make it through but pc is key**
**Werner 10/25**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Erica Werner Reporter for Associated Press- 10/25/11, [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5ef]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Even </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">his jobs bill has been broken into....</span>____He's got to try to do everything he can."__

__***LINK***__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tax cuts prevent credit downgrade</span>**
**Plumer 9/8**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Brad, a reporter on domestic policies for the washington post. (“Just How Effective is The Payroll Tax Cut?” </span><span style="background-color: white; color: blue;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/just-how-effective-is-the-payroll-tax-cut/2011/09/08/gIQAodirCK_blog.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;"> AA)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Obama is expected to ....</span>it will at least avert further degradation.

**Downgrade kills biotech**
**Pollack 8** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Andrew, "Broader Financial Turmoil Threatens Biotech’s Innovation and Cash," 10-28, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/29/business/29biotech.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">For biotechnology companies</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, though, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the main .... </span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">pressure threatened to dry up innovation</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>__

**Solves warming**

**Parikh 6** President and CEO of StratumOne Communications handling intellectual property issues involving patents<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[M.R. “Directed evolution of RuBisCO hypermorphs through genetic selection in engineered E.coli,”2/23, European Commission DG Environment News Alert, Using Biotechnology Against Global Warming, #11]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reducing the rate of global climate change ....</span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">of greenhouse gasses</span>__</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">from the atmosphere</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tickell 08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees ...us towards </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> similar </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">hothouse Earth</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>







**NOTE - leslie takes ptx in the 1nr and nobody cares about that speech so i dont have anything else to puddi up here - ask her if you want**
==CP== 
===Private cp=== 
25 year tax exemption to any private actor that does the plan. smh.

**Tax incentive solves -- businesses will develop the tech**
**Hudgins 2004** (Edward, formerly director of regulatory studies for the Cato Institute and editor of Regulation magazine. He served as a senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and was both deputy director for economic policy studies and director of the Center for International Economic Growth at the Heritage Foundation, “return to the moon? Not with this NASA,” The Atlas Society,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.atlassociety.org/return-moon-not-nasa]]</span>)

NASA will also need to do business in new, innovative ways. […] And the tax revenue from that activity probably would offset the government's revenue losses from such an exemption.



**Private sector solves better -- and, has the capacity to deploy**
**Pelton, 2010**
[Joseph N., Research Professor with the Institute for Applied Space Research -- George Washington University, chairs a NASA and the National Science Foundation Panel of Experts that is conducting a global review of satellite telecommunications, “A new space vision for NASA - And for space entrepreneurs too?,” Space Policy 26 (2010) p. 78-80]

Anyone who rereads the Paine Commission report today almost aches for the vision set forth as a roadmap to the future in this amazing document. […] Only concerted political will exercised from both the inside and the outside will bring significant change [12]. pg. 78-80

**the net benefits change frequently but its most often coercion**

===**Coercion NB**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA fails and extends government control over science and tech -- only the CP allows the free market to flourish and solves the case -- examining coercion is a prerequisite to successful space policy. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garmong, 2004</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, Ph.D. in philosophy, writer for the Ayn Rand Institute from 2003 to 2004, “Privatize the Space Program,” http://www.aynrand.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=7993&news_iv_ctrl=1021]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Phase out government involvement in space exploration, and the free market....</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">captive to politics, or will we set them free?</span>__

**reject every instance of freedom inhibition**
Sylvester **<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Petro</span>**, professor of law at Wake Forest, Spring **<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1974</span>**, Toledo Law Review, p480

However, one may still insist .... with undyingspirit.

===EIS CP=== 
====**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC</span>**==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text – The United States Federal Government should initiate an environmental impact assessment regarding the consequences of (plan) </span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it meets compliance requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act. We’ll clarify.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It competes-</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“resolved” Means “to make a firm decision”,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“should” Means “used to imply obligation or duty”</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[American Heritage Dictionary at</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #147dba; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://dictionary.com/|dictionary.com]]</span>]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solves and net beneficial – prior assessment approves the plan and boosts environmental leadership</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Viikari 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Lotta, Professor of Public and International Law and Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law at the University of Lapland, Theory and Practice of Transboundary Environmental Impact Assessment, p. 265-266)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">1. Introduction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Outer space is an environment where humans have gained access only quite recently as our technology has not been sophisticated enough for space missions for very long[…] </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Similar obligations have</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">not been adopted for the space sector yet</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That’s key to overall hegemony and avoids politics</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Walter 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Norbert, Chief Economist – Deutsche Bank Group, The New York Times, 8-28, Lexis)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">At present there is much talk about the unparalleled strength of the United States on the world stage[…]</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">pivotal dimension of political and economic</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> -- if not existential -- </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">conflict</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global nuclear war</span>**
<span class="Heading2Char" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Khalilzad 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, Counselor – Center for Strategic and International Studies, Former U.S. Permanent Representative – United Nations, Former U.S. Ambassador – Iraq, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The stakes are high. In modern history</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">, </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…] emboldened to make aggressive</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> moves in their regions.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independently – this model stops global environmental destruction that risks extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harris 1</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul G., Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to promoting U.S. global interests, a more robust </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…]</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (we would not be treating them as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument65). </span>
==== ==== 
====**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">2NC overview</span>**==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically – it says this stops ozone depletion – extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Greenpeace 95</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer -- A Greenpeace Report with contributions from Ozone Action,[[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina first postulated</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…] t**he stakes** **are literally the continuation of life on earth****.**</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically solves military power</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vest 1</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary, Acting Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Environmental Security – United States, Arms Control and the Environment, Ed. Guruswamy and Grillot, p. 220-221)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. hopes through their interactions with other countries[…] As it was constituted, the environmental security organization had three new charter directives that are germane to our discussion.</span>


**Politics- The NEPA is popular with the public.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Caldwell 98</span>**(Lynton K. Caldwell, Arthur F. Bentley … Law Review, 22 Harv. Envtl. L. Rev. 203)



__It is somewhat surprising that … their marginalization of environmental concerns__


**The net benefit accesses the case and not the other way around---environmental degradation is the root cause of all conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foster 00</span>**(Gregory Foster, civilian professor … /internet/china-environmental-dragon.pdf)

It has now been more … to safety and well-being).

====**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> 2NC Perm</span>**==== 

**-- Doesn’t solve – __prior__ and __…__ critical to access any benefit**

**Gibbons 91**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John H., Director – U.S. Office of Technology Assessment, “Complex Cleanup: The Environmental Legacy of Nuclear Weapons Production”, February, http://www.princeton.edu/~ota/disk1/1991/9113/911307.PDF)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. </span>__Require DOE__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Other … </span>__achieving__ __sound and credible outcomes__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




===**Regneg CP**=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government should enact the outcome of a binding negotiation with the American aerospace industry. In the negotiation, the United States Federal Government should recommend that [plan]. </span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency</span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Negotiation solves -- parties will come to the table and produce a viable plan</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Harter, 1997__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> (Phillip J., Visiting Professor and Director of the Program on Consensus, Democracy and Governance at Vermont Law School, Duke Law Journal, April)</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The most well developed__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> […] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the outcome was one of the aspects of the process they considered most valuable.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> 48</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The aerospace industry will agree to the recommendation - they want exploration -- that results in enactment of the plan</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Defense Daily 10</span>__**, “New Space Policy … International Cooperation, Private Industry,” 6-30-**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>__** Lexis

The … important investment in our workforce. " 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Net Benefit</span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Deliberative negotiation with the Aerospace industry is key to predictability and long-term planning. This solves the health of Aerospace and the overall economy.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atkins and Newton, ‘10</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">(Chuck Atkins, Former Chief of Staff to the US House of Representatives Committee on Science and Technology, No relation to the former Detroit Pistons guard, Elizabeth Newton, Director for Aerospace and Defense Policy at the University of Alabama, “Take the Chaos Out of US Space Policy,” Space News, 5-10-2010, [[http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">The current debate over U.S. civil space policy makes for fascinating reading, but </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…] about how many the country can afford</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> at a given point in time, especially relative to other national needs. A managed and regular prioritization process should replace episodic, ad hoc presidential commissions in order to ensure that the compelling questions for human space exploration are asked and answered with an enduring consensus in an accountable way and that diverse and iconoclastic views are considered. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Aerospace key to the overall economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Stephen </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Fuller__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, Professor of Economics and Director of the Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University, “The US Economic Impact of Approved and Projected DOD Spending Reductions on Equipment in 2013,” October 24, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__11__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> ([[http://secondtonone.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/aia_impact_analysis.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Additionally, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the impacts of</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> these </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…] construction, and other manufacturing</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>




**some random econ impact here**

====**2nc overview**==== 

**economic decline turns case - it undermines political will for space projects**
Denise **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chow 11</span>__**, “NASA & Military After 9/11: … -11-nasa-military-space-security.html)

"**__The political will for …__** __to Mars, etc. – type program__.


**And, independently, the aerospace industry is vital to air power – it’s the biggest internal link**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thompson 9</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (David, President – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “The Aerospace Workforce”, Federal News Service, 12-10, Lexis)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"> </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Aerospace systems</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> are of considerable … our entire</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> space </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__sector relies on__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. </span>




**Airpower checks multiple scenarios for extinction**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 98</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Ashley, Senior Political Scientist – RAND, “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century”, http://www.rand. org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">This subsection attempts to synthesize … frames examined in this report. </span>





====**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> 2nc Perm</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Here’s evidence to support -- these are exclusive alternatives</span>**
**__Pirk, 2002__** (Sara, J.D. from the University … Environmental Law and Litigation, Spring)

__Regulatory negotiation is an **alternative** …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a direct role in rule-making.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The perm links to politics</span>**
**__Ackerman, 1994__** (Susan Rose, Professor of … University, Duke Law Journal, April)

**__Of course, regulatory negotiation and …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">can be solved by negotiation.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – the perm collapses negotiations – causes businesses to say no</span>**
**__Melling, 1995__** (Tom, Law Clerk to … , Land and Water Law Review)

**__Making a unilateral decision and then … , conflict will very likely continue__**


==**Kritiks**== 
===**Positive Peace K**=== 
**The affirmative represents peace as an absence of war, endorsing a worldview that manages conflict individually. This creates a negative peace which perpetuates the vicious cycle of violence and militarism**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kim 87</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Ha Poong Kim Philosophy Department, Eastern Illinois University, USA Bulletin of Peace Proposals, Vol. 18, No. 1, 1987)</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Peace denotes a nonwarring condition. This....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">it is a relation humanity is fully capable of.</span>



**Their focus on war as an isolated event produces a politics of crises control. This mindset reproduces militarism and perpetuates the structural violence of peacetime militarism**
**Cuomo 96** (Chris Cuomo. Ph.D., 1992, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 1996.Vol.11, Iss. 4; pg. 30)

In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," …<span class="s1"> war and militarism. </span>

**__The alternative is to reject the 1AC and its description of peace as the absence of war__** **- w****e should try to find a solution that endorses positive and complete peace by eliminating structural violence**
**GAY 98** Ph.D. in Philosophy from Boston College, Prof. UNC William C Gay., Peace Review, Dec 1998.Vol.10, Iss. 4; pg. 545-8

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Many times </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">the first step in reducing....</span>means whereby we overcome linguistic violence and social injustice.



===**Security K**=== 
===**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmatives disaster scenarios are mere constructions of threats that foster an environment of unending securitization.</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">David</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grondin,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Neorealist and neoclassical realism offer themselves up as a...... danger through foreign policy that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The construction of threats ensures any agencies of power to authorize force including annihilation and genocide</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coviello 2000</span>** (Peter, Assist. Prof. of English @ Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations, "Apocalypse from Now On")

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed – it did not go away. .... nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vote neg to reject the 1ac’s securitized discourse. Critical praxis outweighs policy making - voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cheeseman,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bruce</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, ‘96</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of.... Contributors ask whether Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>


==Neg strats== 
===**Johns Creek**=== 
**Round One (Marist CM)**
**AFF = space corps**
1NC: spacemil, security, code of conduct cp, credit rating (spending)
2nc: spacemil and case
1nr: code of conduct cp and spending
2nr: spacemil and cp

**Round Three (Milton LV)**
**AFF = Space situational awareness**
1NC: DRAGNETS cp, security, spacemil, credit rating (spending)
2nc: spacemil, security
1nr: DRAGNETS cp, case
2nr: security

**Round Five (Sequoyah sorry i dont remember the name, i lost my flow for that round)**
**AFF = kritikal sps**
1nc: credit rating (spending), spacemil, privitization, coercion, lots of case
2nc: spacemil, case
1nr: spending
2nr: spending, case
=== === 
===Umich=== 
**Round One (Lane tech)**
aff = SSA
1NC: EIS CP, payroll tax cuts, pospeace, lotta case
2NC: EIS CP, case
1Nr: ptx
2nr: CP, ptx

**Round three (blake McMo)**
aff = tsats
1NC: ptx, pospeace, privitization with a military use plank
2nc: privitization, case
1nr: ptx
2nr: privitization, ptx

**Round six (new trier)**
aff = sps
1nc: spacemil, pospeace, regneg cp, ptx
2nc: regneg, case
1nr: ptx
2nr: regneg, ptx