[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
NEW TRIER AFROFUTURISM 1AC

**We started the 1ac by playing part of "Space is the Place," a movie made in 1974 by Sun Ra and his intergalactic Arkaestra. If you have a copy of the film, we start it at around 17:50 and stop it at 18:45. You can find parts of the movie and plot summaries online or you can email me at mbarclay730@gmail.com if you want a .avi copy of the movie.** 

**Part 1: The Futures Industry**
**<span class="tagChar">Through mass media and techno-scientific predictions, the futures industry weaves a vision of the future that positions blackness as a threat to progress that excludes it from taking place in the world of tomorrow. Afrofuturism stands as the last hope to subvert these technologic futures while leaving open a place for the black subjective.</span>**
**<span class="tagChar">Yaszek 05</span> (Lisa. Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies at the School of Literature, Communication and Culture at Georgia Tech and President of the Science Fiction Research Association. An Afrofuturist Reading of Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man. Rethinking History**
**Vol. 9, No. 2/3, June/September 2005, pp. 297 – 313.)**


**<span class="tagChar">The point of debate is creating futures but we continue to exclude blackness from them by metaphorically supporting the forms of institutional power that sustain white privilege while discursively upholding it via self policing. Its time to take back the future of debate as a place not foreclosed to access by the black body.</span>**

**<span class="tagChar">Thus we advocate the use of Sun Ra’s “Space Is The Place” as an ethnoscape of an afrofuture in space. </span>**

**<span class="tagChar">Part 2: This is how we do it</span>**

**<span class="tagChar">Enshrouding himself in an outer space mythos, Sun Ra constructed and performed a ‘black knowledge society’ that sought to reimagine blackness and outer space. He saw this effort as essential to making sure that the black body was not left out of the future in the same way that it was left out of the past. </span>**
**<span class="tagChar">Kreiss 08</span> (Daniel. doctoral candidate in the Department of Communication at Stanford University. “Appropriating the Master’s Tools: Sun Ra, the Black Panthers, and Black Consciousness, 1952–1973.” Published in the Black Music Research Journal Vol. 28, No. 1, Spring 2008.)**

**<span class="tagChar">Reinventing technologies of oppression as technologies of black empowerment in space disrupts bare life and creates a counter legacy to open the possibility for an afrofuture in space. </span>**
**<span class="tagChar">Youngquist 11</span> (Paul Youngquist.. Professor at U Colorado-Boulder. //The Mothership// Connection. Cultural Critique 77—Winter 2011.)**

**<span class="tagChar">Viewing works of sci-fi as ethnoscapes allows us to expose the ways in which status quo authors leave structures of racial hierarchy in place. </span>**
**<span class="tagChar">Lavender ‘7</span> [Isaiah, “Ethnoscapes,” Science Fiction Studies, #102, v34, July [[http://www.depauw.edu/sfs/abstracts/a102.htm#bould%20art|http://www.depauw.edu/sfs/abstracts/a102.htm#bould%20art]]]**

**<span class="tagChar">The kind of reappropriation of technology and outer space for an afrofuture that the aff accomplishes worked for the Panthers. </span>**
**<span class="tagChar">Kreiss 08</span> (Daniel. doctoral candidate in the Department of Communication at Stanford University. “Appropriating the Master’s Tools: Sun Ra, the Black Panthers, and Black Consciousness, 1952–1973.” Published in the Black Music Research Journal Vol. 28, No. 1, Spring 2008.)**

**<span class="tagChar">Part 3: The Frame</span>**

**Every single act of space exploration and development carries with it a particular view of earth, outer space, and ourselves.**
**<span class="tagChar">Ormrod 05</span> (James. Senior Lecturer at the University of Brighton. “Comment: The Case for Astrosociology.” http://www.sx.ac.uk/sociology/student_journals/Grad_journal/9_ormrod.pdf.)**



**<span class="tagChar">The apocalypse has already happened but the debate community still thinks that it can stop it. While we try to avert the next crisis every round, we are actively dismissing the ways in which modernity has repeatedly trampled the black body throughout history and whitewashed outer space. The 1ac is both an acknowledgement and a creation of an afrofuture within debate.</span>**
**<span class="tagChar">Galli 09</span> (Galli, Chuck, "Hip-Hop Futurism: Remixing Afrofuturism and the Hermeneutics of Identity.” 2009. Honors Projects Overview. http://digitalcommons.ric.edu/honors_projects/18.)**


**Our discussion of the discursive constructions that make racial domination possible is key to stop it and spills over into the broader educational space. The racist disciplinary power of the debate community can only be sustained and instituted by those within it.**
**<span class="tagChar">Reid-Brinkley 08</span> (Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008. http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf)**



**White supremacy can not be tolerated in any instance. You have an obligation to reject it via the ballot.**
**Memmi, 2k - Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ University of Paris (Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)**


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]