[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
__**If you have any questions, feel free to contact either of us via Facebook.**__
=Samford= 
PLAN

The United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of space-based weapons in low-earth orbit beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.


ADVANTAGE 1 IS SPACE SUPREMACY

The “space sanctuary” idea is an irrational cold war relic - space is already being weaponized and the US must respond
Dolman, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies, and Cooper, Former Deputy of the DOD’s Strategic and Space Systems, 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Frontier, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

In this chapter, ... well as our friends.

Conflict over space is inevitable - reliance on space for terrestrial warfare guarantees it - 2.5 thousand years of history prove
Smith, Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

It is a rule in strategy,... stretch them slowly over time.21

The only option is for the US to weaponize space - this is critical to preserving hegemony. Weaponization by other nations is inevitable - the US needs to get there first to prevent arms race
Dolman 10 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576)

This is the context in which the world now exists. ... the likelihood of a future war in space is remote.

Space weapons are also key to overall US tech leadership - that’s key to heg
Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, )

Space weapons are expensive;... will likely lose its preeminence.

There’s strong historical support for this argument - hegemonic decline causes global warfare
Zhang, Fellow and Carnegie, and Shi, Professor @ Columbia, 11 - Fellow @ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace AND Professor @ Columbia University (Yuhan and Lin, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” East Asia Forum, January 22nd, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/, )

Over the past two decades, ... we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

Even if hegemonic decline is inevitable, the plan will set up a smooth transition and prevent great power war
Dolman 6 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408, )

Dolman: Well, I think that some assumptions ... have a situation where there is a power to create and enforce some sort of order.

ADVANTAGE 2 IS CHINA

China’s militarizing space and will gain supremacy over the US
Adams, China Specialist @ CSM, 10 (Jonathan, China Specialist at CSM, “China is on path to 'militarization of space',” October 28, http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2010/1028/China-is-on-path-to-militarization-of-space, )

China looks set to pull ahead ... similarly persistent investments to sustain its lead in space."


China’s anti-weapon stance is a farce. Despite appearances, they are weaponizing now and view space militarization as inevitable.
MAGINNIS, ROBERT. April 11th, 2011 "China Lies About Its Huge Military Buildup." Human Events 67.14 (2011): 8.Academic Search Premier. EBSCO. Web. Volume 67, Issue 14
[Internationally known security and foreign affairs analyst often seen on CNN and Fox News]

Red Alert: China is sending misleading messages about ... as examples the nuclear crises with North Korea and Iran.



US space assets are vulnerable to Space Pearl Harbor - deterrence is impossible - the only option is to protect them using space weapons
Dolman 3 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Space Weapons: Are They Needed?,” From Chapter 2: Space Power and US Hegemony: Maintaining a Liberal World Order in the 21st Century, October, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf, )

The United States’ reliance on military space ... but if some state (or nonstate group) does attack, it is presently unobstructed.

The impact is US-Sino nuclear war
Forden, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, 8 (Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/, )

The United States has five satellites in ... into a nuclear war without a clear military goal.

Extinction
Cheong, Senior Writer @ the Strait Times, 2k (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)

THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war ... that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization.

Independently, perceived vulnerability to a Space Pearl Harbor will cause the US to preemptively strike China - causes escalation
Tellis, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, 7 (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)

Finally, the growing Chinese capability ... complications of accidents and further misperception.96

Normal US-Sino war defense doesn’t apply - space is the one sphere in which tensions will escalate to all-out war
Dolman 10 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, )

The coming war with China will be fought ... Both sides will engage and destroy any and all satellites within range, cheaply and effectively.

China’s militarization isn’t a response to US space dominance - means arms-control won’t solve
Tellis 7 (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)

Concerns about an arms race in space ought to be taken seriously, as a threat to both American and global security, but there is, unfortunately, no arms-control solution to this problem. China’s pursuit of counterspace capabilities is not driven fundamentally by a desire to protest American space policies, and those of the George W. Bush administration in particular, but is part of a considered strategy designed to counter the overall military capability of the United States, grounded in Beijing’s military weakness at a time when China considers war with the United States to be possible. The weapons China seeks to blunt through its emerging space-denial capability are not based in space: they are US naval and air forces that operate in China’s immediate or extended vicinity. What are in space are the sensory organs, which find and fix targets for these forces, and the nervous system, which connects the combatant elements and permits them to operate cohesively. These assets permit American forces to detect and identify different kinds of targets; exchange vast and diverse militarily relevant information and data streams; and contribute to the success of combat operations by providing everything from meteorological assessment, through navigation and guidance, to different platforms, weapon systems, and early warning and situational awareness. There is simply no way to ban or control the use of space for such military purposes. Beijing’s diplomats, who repeatedly call for negotiations to assure the peaceful use of space, clearly understand this. And the Chinese military appreciates better
than most that its best chance of countering the massive conventional superiority of the United States lies in an ability to attack the relatively vulnerable eyes, ears and voice of American power. The lure of undermining America’s warfighting strengths in this way prompts Beijing to systematically pursue a variety of counterspace programmes even as it persists in histrionic calls for the demilitarisation of space.22 China’s Janus-faced policy suggests it is driven less by bureaucratic accident or policy confusion than by a compelling and well-founded strategic judgement about how to counter the military superiority of its opponents, especially the United States.


ADVANTAGE 3 IS ECONOMY

Space weaponization is key to keep space open for resource development and provides global economic prosperity
Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, PhD and Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, )

With great power comes great responsibility. ... a long-overdue burst of economic expansion.

Economic growth is key to prevent global nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9 - PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf, )

Of course, the report encompasses more than economics ... between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.

There’s strong statistical support for this argument
Royal 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline ... the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.



The US Economy is dependent on space technology and weaponization, if it’s not us, the economy will crumble
Office For Strategic Communications 8 Oxford Analytica harnesses the intellectual capital of the major universities and research institutions to undertake timely and authoritative analysis of world developments, drawing on a global scholar-expert network of over 1,000 contributors. It serves over 220 clients including 40 governments and 180 financial institutions, multi-national corporations and professional services firms as well as major international institutions including the World Bank, UN, and the EU Commission, “The Space Economy: A Study for NASA,” June, 2008, http://spaceeconomy.gmu.edu/studies/judgments.pdf

Space makes the global economy what it is: ... is at the crux of 21st century economic power.

Space Weaponization is Crucial to the economy Quinn 8 New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space, The [notes]
Minnesota Journal of International Law, Vol. 17, Issue 2 (Summer 2008), pp. 475-502 http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/mjgt17&id=481&type=text&collection=journals

The possibility of space becoming another ... delay the introduction of weapons to space.

DOD Spending is essential to the economy in the long run, it boosts and keeps jobs
Executive Government 2/11 ExecutiveGov, published by Executive Mosaic, is a site dedicated to the news and headlines in the federal government. ExecutiveGov serves as a news source for the hot topics and issues facing federal government departments and agencies such as Gov 2.0, cybersecurity policy, health IT, green IT and national security. We also aim to spotlight various federal government employees and interview key government executives whose impact resonates beyond their agency, “DOD to Boost Space Spending?” 2/11/11, http://www.executivegov.com/2011/02/dod-to-boost-space-spending/

One of the biggest stories to come ... might draw the line.

LAST IS SOLVENCY
Space weapons exist
Oberg, James 2007 (James Oberg is a 22-year veteran of NASA mission control. He is now a writer and consultant in Houston, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/826/1)
The United States already has satellite killers, why shouldn’t anyone else? It’s not just the hard-line Russian commentators or the North Korean press that alleges that US military forces are already armed to the teeth for space warfare: the same explicit assumption often appears in the mainstream Western press as well. Sometimes the argument even goes, “Well, there’s no official acknowledgement of them—that proves they exist in secret” (as if the absence of evidence were transformed into evidence of presence).

Plan solves - causes overall US low-earth orbit dominance and doesn’t prevent economic activity
Dolman 3 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Space Weapons: Are They Needed?,” From Chapter 2: Space Power and US Hegemony: Maintaining a Liberal World Order in the 21st Century, October, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf, )

By using its current and near-term capacities, ... current spaceports, monitoring and controlling all traffic both in and out.

Total space control is possible - the US just has to act first - failure to do so makes a space arms race inevitable and will allow China and Russia to block us out of space
Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf,
Note: First 2 sentences are myths which the author intends to challenge.

Space is too vast to be controlled. ... space weapons opponents fear most: a space arms race.
=2AC EMP Impact Module= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gertz July 21st 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> (</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Bill Gertz is national security editor and a national security and investigative reporter for The Washington Times. He has participated in the National Security Studies Program at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies and Syracuse University Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/jul/21/beijing-develops-radiation-weapons/#disqus_thread|http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/jul/21/beijing-develops-radiation-weapons/#disqus_thread]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__China's military is developing ...__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">personnel without a massive blast.” </span></span>
= = 



=Negative= 
==Westminster:== 
__**Round 1 Vs. Pace HR (SPS)**__
1NC: Privates DA, Privates CP, DOD Trade off DA, Spending, A-Spec, Case Defense.
2NR: Privates CP with Spending Net Ben. and Case Defense.
__**Round 2 Vs. Wheeler UN (SPS)**__
1NC: Privates CP, Privates DA (ran internally), Spending, Launches, A-Spec, Case Defense.
2NR: Case Defense, Spending.
==Griffen:== 
__**Round 3 Vs. Central Gwinnett ZP (China Co-op)**__
1NC: Case Defense, Jobs Bill, T-It's, DoD Trade off DA.
2NR: Jobs Bill, Case Defense.
==Samford:== 
__**Round 1 Vs. Univ. Schools of Nashville JZ (Space Tourism)**__
1NC: T-Increase, O-spec, Jobs Bill, NASA CP, Effects T.
2NR: O-spec, Effects T.
__**Round 4 Vs. Isadore Newman MM (Asteroid Mining)**__
1NC: Launches, Jobs Bill, Unipolarity DA, China CPQ, Case Defense.
2NR: Jobs Bill, Case Defense.
__**Round 6 Vs. Mountianbook MS (Inflatable SPS)**__
1NC: T-Create, Case Defense, Jobs Bill, Unipolarity DA, China CPQ, Launches.
2NR: Case Defense, Jobs Bill.
==Johns Creek:== 
__Ro**und 1 Vs. Alpharetta RH (Inflatable SPS)**__
1NC: Case Defense, Astropolitik K, Unipolarity DA, Aspec, T-Create, Spending DA, China CPQ.
2NR: China CPQ, Spending, Case Defense.
__**Round 4 Vs. Sequoyah MW (SPS for Poverty)**__
1NC: Heidegger, China Co-op CP, Spending, Unipolarity, Framwork, Case Defense.
2NR: Case Defense, Spending.
==Alpharetta:== 
__**Round 1 Vs. Grady CH (SUSTAIN)**__
1NC: Astropolitik K, Spending, China Co-op CP, Unipolarity DA, T-Mesosphere.
2NR: China Co-op, Unipolarity
__**Round 4 Vs. Westminster Prep PM (Space Based Lasers)**__
1NC: Case Defense, A-spec, Spending, China Co-op, Unipolarity, Astropolitic K, T-Human.
2NR: T-human, Spending, Case Defense.
==Lincoln:== 
__**Round 2 Vs. Marist AP (Space Corps)**__
1NC: Space Mil DA, Astropolitic K, Space Corps CP, Negation Theory, Case Defense, Effects T, Spending, China Co-op, Unipolarity.
2NR: Astropolitics K, Negation Theory, Effects T.
__**Round 3 Vs. Marist CM (Space Corps)**__
1NC: Spending, Space Corps CP, Astropolitics K, Unipolarity DA, China Co-op CP, Space Mil Bad DA, Negation Theory, Effects T, Case Defense.
2NR: Effects T, Unipolarity, Case Turns, China Co-op.
==Carroltton:== 
__**Round 1 Vs. Westminster FG (SPS)**__
1NC: China Co-op, Spending, Unipolarity DA, Astropolitic K, Case Defense.
2NR: China Co-op, Case Defense.
__**Round 4 Vs. Westminster FW (SPS with sea turtles)**__
1NC: Launches, Case Defense, Spending, China Co-op, Astropolitic K, Unipolarity DA.
2NR: Case Defense, Spending, CP.
__**Round 5 Vs. Alpharetta GH (EPPP)**__
1NC: T-Explore, Spending, Effects T, Astropolitic K, Case Defense, China Co-op CP, Unipolarity DA.
2NR: CP, Case Defense, Unipolarity DA.
----
==Lee:== 
===Round 1 Vs. Constellation=== 
2NR: FX T

===Round 4 Vs. SSA=== 
2NR: FX T

==Jackson:== 
Round 1 Vs. Space Weps
2NR: Heidegger K

Round 4 Vs. China Co-op
2NR: K

==Emory:== 
Round 2 Vs. China Co-op
2NR: China Framework CP and Elections.

Round 4 Vs. GBN (Space Debris)
2NR: Elections

Round 5 Vs. He3 mining
2NR: Heg bad DA/ China CP