[[toc]]
=cite requests= 
Aff cites: [[mailto:franswanson95@gmail.com|franswanson95@gmail.com]]
Neg cites: [[mailto:mgdarmody@gmail.com|mgdarmody@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==NDCA Octos 1AC==
Plan: The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.

ECONOMY

Double-dip is coming – reversing fiscal austerity is key to avoid collapse
Kuttner 4-1 – MS in Economics from the London School of Economics, Senior Research Fellow @ Demos, Founder of the American Prospect
Robert, “Recipe for a Double-Dip Recession,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-kuttner/double-dip-recession_b_1395455.html
With the economy just …the real lesson of Greece.


Growth now is superficial—absent new measures, the economy will collapse
Lazear 4-2 – Professor @ Stanford’s Graduate School of Business
Ed, “The Worst Economic Recovery in History,” WSJ, Proquest
How many times have …long-term average growth.

The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse
NSSO 7	
National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
Finding:  The SBSP Study …portfolio by mid‐century and beyond.


Economic decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report …a more dog-eat-dog world. 


SOLVENCY

Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP
General Electric 11
General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space
Clean, efficient and available …excited about the future again.


Inflatable SSP slashes costs, maximizes energy collection, and overcomes traditional barriers
Brown 9 – Masters in Science
Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1
 As such is… space in Earth orbit.

SSP is resilient and efficient
Reed and Willenberg 4 – *Analyst @ Welsom Space Power, **PhD in Nuclear Engineering
Kevin and Harvey J., “Early commercial demonstration of space solar power using ultra-lightweight arrays,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 65, Issues 9-10, accessed on Science Direct
Future systems will be …operational space environment.


Transparency and structural barriers prevent weaponization
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”
“Your concern about …the risk of weaponization. 

No risk of interference or GEO disruption
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon, http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/
How does a company ….will not disrupt existing services.

COAL

Advantage Two – Coal
SSP eliminates coal consumption—NASA can do it quickly
Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric 
Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/
If we took a moment to rank …every other energy solution here on earth.

Coal is finite – will peak
Craft 11 – author of over 40 peer-reviewed journal articles, environmental research chemist for 34 years studying water quality in the western US, CEO and Principal, Craft Geochemistry Consulting, LLC
Doug, “Peak Oil and Our Future,” http://www.dougcraftfineart.com/PeakOilandOurFutureEssaybyDougCraft.pdf
Despite coal ….within as little as 20 years (Heinberg 2007, 2009).

No alternative can fill in
Flournoy 12 – PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University 
Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book
The National Space Society (NSS) ….resource of our Sun” (Hsu 2010) (Fig. 2.1).

Scenario One – Warming
Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree
Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of scientific …anthropogenic climate change.

Coal use causes tipping points – leads to extinction
Hansen 9 - Director of Nasa's Goddard Institute for Space Studies
James Hansen, Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences @ Columbia University and Ph.D. in Physics  from the University of Iowa),  “Coal-fired power stations are death factories. Close them,” The Observer, Sunday 15 February 2009,  pg. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/feb/15/james-hansen-power-plants-coal
A year ago, I wrote to …carbon dioxide rose another 100 ppm.

It’s an existential risk
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates …cultural and political changes.

Limiting electricity emissions is key
Duane 10 – Professor of Environmental Studies
Timothy Duane, Associate Professor of Environmental Studies, University of California, Santa Cruz, 2010, “Greening the Grid: Implementing Climate Change Policy Through Energy Efficiency, Renewable Portfolio Standards, and Strategic Transmission System Investments,” 34 Vt. L. Rev. 711, Lexis
Understanding the existing …than renewable power sources. 

Scenario two – habitat loss
We are on the brink of the next great species extinction
Speth 8 – Dean of Yale school of Forestry
James, dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Currently he serves the school as the Carl W. Knobloch, Jr. Dean and Sara Shallenberger Brown Professor in the Practice of Environmental Policy, The Bridge @ the Edge of the World, pg. 37
The cumulative effect …populations in forty years.

Continued coal use devastates the global environment
Bosselman 7 - Professor of Law Emeritus, Chicago-Kent College of Law
Fred, “THE NEW POWER GENERATION: ENVIRONMENTAL LAW AND ELECTRICITY INNOVATION: COLLOQUIUM ARTICLE: THE ECOLOGICAL ADVANTAGES OF NUCLEAR POWER,” 15 N.Y.U. Envtl. L.J. 1, Lexis

Virtually all of the coal …
deaths per year worldwide. 185

Peer reviewed science supports a huge environmental impact
Hershkowitz 11 – Senior Scientist @ NRDC
Allen, “Mountaintop Removal Coal Mining: The National Research Council Should Investigate,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/allen-hershkowitz/mountaintop-removal-coal-_b_882705.html
In 2009, Dr. Margaret Palmer …biologically rich temperate forests on Earth.

It’s comparatively a larger environmental impact than a nuclear explosion
Bosselman 7 - Professor of Law Emeritus, Chicago-Kent College of Law
Fred, “THE NEW POWER GENERATION: ENVIRONMENTAL LAW AND ELECTRICITY INNOVATION: COLLOQUIUM ARTICLE: THE ECOLOGICAL ADVANTAGES OF NUCLEAR POWER,” 15 N.Y.U. Envtl. L.J. 1, Lexis

The study of the …climate for millennia to come." 277

Leads to extinction
Coyne and Hoekstra 7 – *Professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago AND ** Associate Professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University 
Jerry and Hopi, “The Greatest Dying”, The New Republic, September 24th 2007, June 26th 2010, http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatestdying)
Every year, up to 30,000 species …greatest dying of them all.

Scenario Three – Railroads
Coal demand leads to railroad crunch
McCollum 7 - Ph.D. Transportation Technology & Policy
David, “Future Impacts of Coal Distribution Constraints on Coal Cost,” Institute of Transportation Studies, University of California, Davis, Research Report UCD-ITS-RR-07-26
After years of relatively …capital investment by rail companies.

Congestion spills over to affect all rail transit
Brenan 98
Agricultural Marketing Service July 1998 Agricultural Transportation Challenges for the 21 st Century Long-term Capacity Constraints in the U.S. Rail System   William Brennan http://151.121.3.150/tmd/summit/ch4c.pdf
However, the recent rail …the original disturbance.  

Collapses readiness
Hillis 99 – Commander in US Navy
Shaun, “AN ANALYSIS OF COMMERCIAL RAILROAD CONGESTION AND ITS RESULTANT IMPACT ON FORT-TO-PORT TRANSPORTATION EFFORTS,” MS in Management, http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA361478&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
The United States …deployment would be severely impacted.

Rapid response is key to readiness and warfighting
Grimes 6 – Army Major
Derek, Army Operational Law Handbook, Google Book
C. The Stryker Brigade Combat…., a wheeled light armored vehicle.

Leads to war
Spencer 2k – Defense Analyst
Jack Spencer is Policy Analyst for Defense and National Security in the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation, “the Facts About Military Readiness”, http://www.heritage.org/Research/MissileDefense/BG1394.cfm
Military readiness is …thereby preserving peace.

Rail supply disruptions crushes the chemical industry
Weinstein 98
THE IMPACTS OF THE UNION PACIFIC SERVICE DISRUPTIONS ON THE TEXAS AND NATIONAL ECONOMIES: AN UNFINISHED STORY Prepared for the Railroad Commission of Texas by Bernard L. Weinstein, Ph.D. and Terry L. Clower, Ph.D. Center for Economic Development and Research The University of North Texas Denton, Texas February 9, 1998
The Gulf Coast's $105 billion …next six to twelve months.

Absent the chemical industry, bioterror attacks will succeed
NAS 3
Beyond the Molecular Frontier: Challenges for Chemistry and Chemical Engineering (2003), Board on Chemical Sciences and Technology page 175 http://darwin.nap.edu/books/0309084776/html/171.html
To guard against biological …techniques must be developed. 

Bioterror causes extinction
Matheny 7 - MPH from Johns Hopkins, PhD Candidate @ Johns Hopkins
Jason, research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, where his work focuses on technology forecasting and risk assessment - particularly of global catastrophic risks and existential risks.[1] He previously worked for the World Bank, the Center for Biosecurity, the Center for Global Development, and on national security projects for the US government. He is a Sommer Scholar and PhD candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University. He holds an MPH from Johns Hopkins, an MBA from Duke University, and a BA from the University of Chicago, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf
Of current extinction …seem to be worth the risks. 



==NDCA 1AC== 

Plan: The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.


Advantage 1 is energy
Exhaustion of all energy resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand
Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,” http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf
By 2100, the number of people …power generation capability for the world.

A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally – solves growth, climate change and raises living standards for the bottom billion
Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD
Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf
Tectonic forces are roiling …cannot afford to wait another 30 years.

SPS is competitive with fossil fuels in the near-term
Hornitschek et al 8 – Colonel in the USAF
Mike, Hornitschek, Colonel in the USAF, 2008, “Solar power from space can help keep the peace on Earth,” Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf
Like all species in …that calculus is about to change.


We’ll isolate two scenarios:
First is warming:

It’s real and human-induced—cuts are key
Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis
1n early 2007, …well within this century.


Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree
Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of regarding anthropogenic climate change.


Warming leads to extinction – SSP is key
Flournoy 12 – PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University
Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book
The National Space Society (NSS) …energy resource of our Sun” (Hsu 2010) (Fig. 2.1).

Solving coal emissions is sufficient—it’s an existential risk
Hansen 9 - Director of Nasa's Goddard Institute for Space Studies
James Hansen, Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences @ Columbia University and Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa), “Coal-fired power stations are death factories. Close them,” The Observer, Sunday 15 February 2009, pg. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/feb/15/james-hansen-power-plants-coal
A year ago, I wrote to …dioxide rose another 100 ppm.

Scenario two – Resource Conflict
Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SPS solves great power war
Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant
Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1
It was a little …pipelines and shipping routes will diminish.

Resource shortages cause global conflict
Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, **Professor of Political Science**
**Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,” http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf**
**IPCC (2001) points …and international security’ (p. 107).**

**Advantage 2 is leadership**
**A fast and large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control**
**Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program**
**Phil, March, 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html**
**The expected cost of …electricity as well as petroleum.**
**Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony**
**Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy**
**Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf**
**"We become just ..vanguard of global leadership.**

**Leadership solves great power war**
**Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank**
**America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/**
**This does not necessarily .. of unrivalled US primacy.**

**Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts**
**Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts**
**Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”**
**Daily explosions in Iraq, …intervention would be equally daunting.**


**Double-dip is coming – reversing fiscal austerity is key to avoid collapse**
**Kuttner 4-1 – MS in Economics from the London School of Economics, Senior Research Fellow @ Demos, Founder of the American Prospect**
**Robert, “Recipe for a Double-Dip Recession,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-kuttner/double-dip-recession_b_1395455.html**
**With the economy just …the real lesson of Greece.**



**The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse**
**NSSO 7**
**National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf**
**Finding: The SBSP ..portfolio by mid‐century and beyond.**


**Economic decline causes nuclear war**
**Harris and Burrows 9**
**Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf**
**Increased Potential for Global Conflict**
**Of course, the report …more dog-eat-dog world.**


**Even absent a recession, slow growth leads to global wars**
**Khalilzad 11 – PhD, Former Professor of Political Science @ Columbia, Former ambassador to Iraq and Afghanistan**
**Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Economy and National Security" Feb 8 www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024**
**Today, economic and fiscal …aggressive moves in their regions.**



**SOLVENCY**

**Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP**
**General Electric 11**
**General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space**
**Clean, efficient and available 24-7, ..excited about the future again.**






**SSP can be up and running within one year**
**Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric**
**Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/**

**If we took a moment to rank …**
**energy solution here on earth.**

**Inflatable SSP slashes costs, maximizes energy collection, and overcomes traditional barriers**
**Brown 9 – Masters in Science**
**Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1**
**As such is the ….kilometer of space in Earth orbit.**

**SSP is resilient and efficient**
**Reed and Willenberg 4 – *Analyst @ Welsom Space Power,** PhD in Nuclear Engineering
Kevin and Harvey J., “Early… the operational space environment.

Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand- only SSP solves
Nansen 10 – Former space engineer
Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html
Today we face the …energy well before 2100."[2]

Transparency and structural barriers prevent weaponization
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”
“Your concern about weaponization …removes the risk of weaponization.

No risk of interference or GEO disruption
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon, http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/
How does a company …not disrupt existing services.




==Harvard 1AC== 
Plan: The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.

Advantage 1 is energy

Exhaustion of resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand
Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,” http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf
By 2100, the number of people ……electrical power generation capability for the world.

Starting now is the only way to avoid global energy deprivation
Snead 9 – MS in Aerospace Engineering
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 5-4-2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1
In my recent white paper, “The End of Easy Energy ……the commercial development of SSP gains importance.

A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally
Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD
Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf
Tectonic forces are roiling ……. and indeed the world, cannot afford to wait another 30 years.

We’ll isolate two scenarios:

First is warming:

It’s real and human-induced
-now is key
-AR4 = IPCC
Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis
1n early 2007, at the time of the publication of ……. next five to ten years, reaching near zero well within this century.

Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree
Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature … forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.

Warming leads to human extinction – SPS solves
Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html
It has become increasingly evident that ……… way that has a chance to make a difference.

Solving coal is sufficient to prevent extinction
Hansen 9 - Director of Nasa's Goddard Institute for Space Studies
James Hansen, Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences @ Columbia University and Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa), “Coal-fired power stations are death factories. Close them,” The Observer, Sunday 15 February 2009, pg. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/feb/15/james-hansen-power-plants-coal
A year ago, I wrote …rose another 100 ppm.

Scenario two – Resource Conflict

Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SSP solves great power war
Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant
Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1
It was a little more than a month ago when …….. pipelines and shipping routes will diminish.

Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand
Nansen 10 – Former space engineer
Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html
Today we face the compounding ……… we will run out of energy well before 2100."[2]

Resource shortages are the proximate cause of global conflict
Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science
Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,” http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf

IPCC (2001) points out that ‘much has ……… will affect regional and international security’ (p. 107).

Advantage 2 is leadership
A fast and large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control
Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program
Phil, March, 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html
The expected cost …well as petroleum.
Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony
Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy
Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf
"We become just …of global leadership.
Leadership solves great power war
Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank
America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/
This does not … of unrivalled US primacy.
Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts
Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts
Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”
Daily explosions in …be equally daunting.



Growth won’t continue – targeted stimulus is key to reverse substantial headwinds
Tyson 2-7 - former chair of the US President's Council of Economic Advisers, is a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley
Laura, “US policy-makers must fix basic economic problems,” http://gulfnews.com/business/opinion/us-policy-makers-must-fix-basic-economic-problems-1.976902
Output growth in the.. additional fiscal stimulus is warranted.

Economic collapse is coming now – fiscal stimulus is key
Romer 8-14 – Professor of Economics @ Berkeley
Christina, “The Hope That Flows From History,” New York Times, Proquest
Look more closely…, with the debt over time.

The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse
NSSO 7
National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
Finding: The SBSP Study …by mid‐century and beyond.

US economic decline would collapse the global economy
Dhungel 9/8/11 ( Kamal Raj Dhungel, Ph.D., Economics, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, Associate Professor of Economics, “Is global economy in double-dip recession?”, http://www.thehimalayantimes.com/fullNews.php?headline=Is+global+economy+in+double-dip+recession%3F+&NewsID=302126, 2011)
The confidence of people …
and emerging economies.

Economic decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report …a more dog-eat-dog world.




1ac Solvency


Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP
General Electric 11
General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space
Clean, efficient and …about the future again.


Inflatable SPS overcomes solvency takeouts
Brown 9 – Masters in Science
Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1
The spherical concept …
medium of space.




SSP can be up and running within one year
Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric
Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/

If we took a …
solution here on earth.

Inflatable SSP slashes costs, maximizes energy collection, and overcomes traditional barriers
Brown 9 – Masters in Science
Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1
As such is …space in Earth orbit.

SSP is resilient and efficient
Reed and Willenberg 4 – *Analyst @ Welsom Space Power, **PhD in Nuclear Engineering
Kevin and Harvey J., “Early commercial demonstration of space solar power using ultra-lightweight arrays,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 65, Issues 9-10, accessed on Science DirectFuture systems will …the operational space environment.

Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand- only SSP solves
Nansen 10 – Former space engineer
Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html
Today we face …well before 2100."[2]

No risk of interference or GEO disruption
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon, http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/
How does a …not disrupt existing services.

Transparency and natural barriers prevent weaponization
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”
“Your concern about …the risk of weaponization.



==St. Mark's 1AC== 
Plan: The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.

Advantage 1 is energy

Exhaustion of resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand
Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,” http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf
By 2100, the number of people ……electrical power generation capability for the world.

Starting now is the only way to avoid global energy deprivation
Snead 9 – MS in Aerospace Engineering
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 5-4-2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1
In my recent white paper, “The End of Easy Energy ……the commercial development of SSP gains importance.

A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally
Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD
Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf
Tectonic forces are roiling ……. and indeed the world, cannot afford to wait another 30 years.

We’ll isolate two scenarios:

First is warming:

It’s real and human-induced
-now is key
-AR4 = IPCC
Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis
1n early 2007, at the time of the publication of ……. next five to ten years, reaching near zero well within this century.

Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree
Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature … forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.

Warming leads to human extinction – SPS solves
Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html
It has become increasingly evident that ……… way that has a chance to make a difference.

Warming is an existential risk
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century …….social, cultural and political changes.

Scenario two – Resource Conflict

Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SSP solves great power war
Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant
Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1
It was a little more than a month ago when …….. pipelines and shipping routes will diminish.

Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand
Nansen 10 – Former space engineer
Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html
Today we face the compounding ……… we will run out of energy well before 2100."[2]

Resource shortages are the proximate cause of global conflict
Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science
Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,” http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf

IPCC (2001) points out that ‘much has ……… will affect regional and international security’ (p. 107).



Advantage 2 is leadership

A large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control
Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program
Phil, March, 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html
The expected cost of deploying SBSP is ~$7,400/kW, ………. must import electricity as well as petroleum.

Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony
Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy
Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf
"We become just by performing just actions, temperate by performing temperate actions, brave by performing brave actions," said Aristotle over 2,300 years ago. Today,the United States faces a series ……… America's best shot at remaining at the vanguard of global leadership.

It’s reverse causal – loss of resource control closes the relative hegemony gap
Blankley 9 – JD from Loyola
Tony, has a Juris Doctor degree from Loyola Law School in Los Angeles; author of "American Grit: What It Will Take to Survive and Win in the 21st Century" and vice president of the Edelman public-relations firm in Washington, “America held hostage; American Grit: What It Will Take to Survive and Win in the 21st Century” Washington Times, Lexis
Our national security is being held …….. America, right now, is woefully unprepared.

Leadership solves great power war
Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank
America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/
This does not necessarily mean that ……… that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts
Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts
Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”
Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas ……… the prospect of U.S. intervention would be equally daunting.

Global recession is coming – US fiscal stimulus solves and prevents war
Lazzaro 9-24 – Editor of the International Business Times
Joseph, “Jobs Bill: 5 Reasons Why the U.S. Economy Needs More Fiscal Stimulus,” http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/219327/20110924/jobs-job-growth-unemployment-unemployment-rate-congress-gold-oil-homes-housing-stocks-bonds-djia-dow.htm
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)… get the American people back to work.

The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse
NSSO 7
National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
Finding: The SBSP Study Group found that ………. of the world energy portfolio by mid‐century and beyond.


Economic decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics ……… between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.




1ac Solvency


Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP
General Electric 11
General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space
Clean, efficient and available 24-7, ……. to get them excited about the future again.

More evidence – zero risk of private sector involvement absent a publicly-funded demonstration
Collins 2k – PhD in Advanced Science and Tech
Patrick Collins, PhD, Visiting Research Fellow, Tokyo University, Research Center for Advanced Science & Technology, 2000, “SPS - time for a pilot plant,” Space Policy, 16, Science Direct
In the electricity supply industry ………..benign and potentially profitable.

Inflatable SPS overcomes solvency takeouts
Brown 9 – Masters in Science
Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1
The spherical concept would enable ……….military endeavors in the medium of space.


SSP can be up and running within one year
Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric
Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/

If we took a moment to rank every ………eclipse every other energy solution here on earth.


SSP lowers launch costs
Lark 9** – Fellow of the Canadian Securities Institute, Vice-President and Investment Advisor with BMO Nesbitt Burns, one of Canada’s largest full-service investment firms, member of the Management Advisory Board for the Center for Space Power at Texas A&M University
Eva-Jane, “POLICY AND FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PROSPECTS FOR SPACE SOLAR POWER,” Silicon Valley Space Club,https://sites.google.com/site/siliconvalleyspaceclubsite/space-solar-power/policy-and-financial-considerations-and-prospects-for-space-solar-power
Development of SSP could also be …………. to breakthroughs in propulsion techniques.39

==1AC Michigan/Blake== 
Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.

ADVANTAGE 1 is energy
Exhaustion of all energy resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand
Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,” http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf
By 2100, the number of people…the dominant electrical power generation capability for the world.

A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally – solves growth, climate change and raises living standards for the bottom billion
Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD
Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf
Tectonic forces are roiling the global …cannot afford to wait another 30 years.

SPS is competitive with fossil fuels in the near-term
Hornitschek et al 8 – Colonel in the USAF
Mike, Hornitschek, Colonel in the USAF, 2008, “Solar power from space can help keep the peace on Earth,” Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf
Like all species in a closed ecosystem…that calculus is about to change.
We’ll isolate two scenarios:
First is warming:
It’s real and human-induced
Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis
1n early 2007, at the …zero well within this century.
Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree
Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature …forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.

Warming leads to human extinction – SSP is key
Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html
It has become increasingly ….a chance to make a difference.
Warming is an existential risk – quickening reductions is key to avoiding extinction
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates for …social, cultural and political changes.
Scenario two – Resource Conflict

Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SPS solves great power war
Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant
Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1
It was a little more than a month ago when the crisis in the Caucasus erupted. It will be years before historians sort out exactly how it started, but no one can deny that it ended with a classic case of Russia using massive …routes will diminish.
Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand
Nansen 10 – Former space engineer
Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html
Today we face the…energy well before 2100."[2]

Resource shortages are the proximate cause of global conflict
Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science
Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,” http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf
IPCC (2001) points out …l and international security’ (p. 107).

Advantage 2 is leadership

A fast and large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control
Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program
Phil, March, 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html
The expected cost of deploying SBSP ….as well as petroleum.
Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony
Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy
Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf
"We become just by …vanguard of global leadership.
Leadership solves great power war
Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank
America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/
This does not necessarily … devoid of unrivalled US primacy.
Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts
Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts
Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”
Daily explosions in ….U.S. intervention would be equally daunting.

On the brink of a recession – productive stimulus spending is key – resiliency doesn’t apply
El-Arian 11-1 - CEO and co-CIO of PIMCO
Mohamed, “Could America turn out worse than Japan?,” Money Web, http://www.moneyweb.co.za/mw/view/mw/en/page292681?oid=555164&sn=2009+Detail
It is time to say goodbye …should be done to minimize this risk.


The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse
NSSO 7
National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
Finding: The SBSP Study Group …by mid‐century and beyond.

Economic decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report encompasses ….in a more dog-eat-dog world.



SOLVENCY
Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP
General Electric 11
General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space
Clean, efficient and available 24-7… get them excited about the future again.


Inflatable SPS overcomes solvency takeouts
Brown 9 – Masters in Science
Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1
The spherical concept…the medium of space.



SSP can be up and running within one year
Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric
Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/
If we took a moment to rank every government agency… solution here on earth.


Inflatable SSP slashes costs, maximizes energy collection, and overcomes traditional barriers
Brown 9 – Masters in Science
Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1
As such is the case, a critically sought after …in Earth orbit.

SSP is resilient and efficient
Reed and Willenberg 4 – *Analyst @ Welsom Space Power, PhD in Nuclear Engineering
Kevin and Harvey J., “Early commercial demonstration of space solar power using ultra-lightweight arrays,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 65, Issues 9-10, accessed on Science Direct
Future systems will be even more...operational space environment.



SSP lowers launch costs
Lark 9 – Fellow of the Canadian Securities Institute, Vice-President and Investment Advisor with BMO Nesbitt Burns, one of Canada’s largest full-service investment firms, member of the Management Advisory Board for the Center for Space Power at Texas A&M University
Eva-Jane, “POLICY AND FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS AND PROSPECTS FOR SPACE SOLAR POWER,” Silicon Valley Space Club, https://sites.google.com/site/siliconvalleyspaceclubsite/space-solar-power/policy-and-financial-considerations-and-prospects-for-space-solar-power
Development of SSP …in propulsion techniques.39

==2AC space nukes add on== 
Space nukes coming now – lead to extinction
Grossman 8-10 – Professor @ College of New York
Karl, “Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions,” Truth Out, http://www.truth-out.org/despite-solar-options-nasa-nuclear-alliance-continues-plutonium-powered-missions/1312560708
What is the National Aeronautics and Space… the space program.

==2AC asteroids add on== 
SSP solves asteroids
Hempsella 6 – professor at University of Bristol
(Hempsella, Mark, professor at University of Bristol, October 2006, “Space power as a response to global catastrophes,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 59, Issue 7, Pages 524-530, EBSCO)
Large near-Earth object impacts, …location was a Sun Earth Lagrange point.

Extinction is inevitable without it
Schwab, 5 – director of the Homeplanet Defense Institute (Martin, Homeplanet Defense: Strategic Thought for a World in Crisis, chapter 1)

We now face multiple threats …Mars and eventually beyond.


==2AC T development=human== 

We meet—we’re exploration

WM—SSP requires humans for development

Counter interpretation: Space development includes space structures
Suita, Imagaw et al. 05 –Yoshikazu SUITA, professor at Takamatsu National College of Technology and Kichiro Imagaw, project manager of the JEM Development Project Team for JAXA ( June 6th, 2005, “Butt welding joint of aluminum alloy by space GHTA welding process in vacuum”, http://www.jstage.jst.go.jp/article/tjsass/48/162/229/_pdf)

On February 1, 2003, all seven crew members of the Columbia space shuttle died in a midair disintegration accident. The accident investigation committee concluded that heat-insulating foam fell oﬀ the external tank and damaged the thermal protection tiles on the leading edge of the left wing. Hot gas entered the left wing during atmospheric reentry causing the midair disintegration. After the Columbia accident, NASA suspended shuttle launches. Consequently, the operation period of the International Space Station (ISS), which is due to be completed in 2010, may be extended for various reasons. Extending the ISS operation period may require maintenance, improvements, and repair to damage caused by collisions with debris. When considering ambitious future space development programs, such as the construction of a lunar base, solar power satellites, and other space structures, we clearly need to establish safe space welding and processing technologies.

Development means creating technology for the use of space
Space Development Promotion Act, 5 – of the Republic of Korea (5/31, reprinted in the UN Committee on Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, http://www.unoosa.org/pdf/limited/c2/AC105_C2_2009_CRP14E.pdf)

The terms in this act are defined as follows:
1. "Space development" means any one of the following items:
(a) Research activities and technology development activities relevant to the design, manufacturing, launch, and/or operation of space objects and
(b) The use and exploration of outer space as well as activities that promote such activities.


Their interp overlimits—prevents k/ affs like satellites for monitoring, communication and space BMD

We don’t kill their ground—there aren’t DAs based off of including humans
Reasonability—competing interps cause a race to the bottom
==2AC Pay Roll Tax Cuts== 
Won’t pass – agreement on premise will not overcome disagreement over offsets
The Hill 2/1
http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/domestic-taxes/208025-conference-committee-on-some-of-the-same-pages-on-payroll-tax
The 20 lawmakers …after the meeting.

Obama has zero political capital – Congress will block no matter what
News Herald 1/31 (News Herald. 31 January 2012. “Congress Obstructs Obama’s Domestic Agenda”. http://www.newsherald.com/articles/record-100057-congress-year.html)
The Washington Times …malpractice," the president said.


GOP focusing on pipeline
NYT 2/1
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/02/us/politics/for-gop-pipeline-is-central-to-agenda.html
WASHINGTON — Just six months ago, …
of pipeline jobs.

Obama must exert effort and he can get his agenda
Kuttner 11
Robert Kuttner, co-founder and co-editor of The American Prospect, as well as a distinguished senior fellow of the think tank Demos. “Barack Obama’s Theory of Power”. The American Prospect. May 16, 2011. http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=barack_obamas_theory_of_power
Obama’s critics contend…, it hasn’t worked.


Extending the Payroll Tax Cut won’t solve the economy – economic experts and empirics
Bartlett 11
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations, 8/30 (The Case Against a Payroll Tax Cut, economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/08/30/the-case-against-a-payroll-tax-cut/)
In theory, the …the tax wedge.

PC is not key
Dickinson 11 – Professor of Political Science
Matthew, professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, 3-21-2011, “Friedman Weighs In On the “Passionless” President – But Is He Right?,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2011/03/21/friedman-weighs-in-on-the-passive-president-but-is-he-right/
Friedman’s complaint regarding… writes on this score

==2AC SKFTA== 
TAA will block
The Hill 9/14
(September 14, 2011, “GOP increases pressure on Obama to move trade deals”, The Hill, http://thehill.com/business-a-lobbying/181677-boeing-stays-out-of-fray-over-gops-nlrb-bill)
The Obama administration is seeking a … not like the TAA program.

Elections
The Hill 9/10
(September 10, 2011, The Hill, http://thehill.com/homenews/house/180751-obama-backed-trade-pacts-could-be-heavy-lift-for-house-gop?page=2#comments)
A source opposed to the … Congress may have a different view.”

Obama has no PC—

a. No PC – Debt Ceiling Fight
The Business Times Singapore 9/7, 2011, Obama must deliver bold action plan
AS President Barack Obama prepares his critically important address to the US Congress tomorrow against the backdrop of a US unemployment rate of 9.1 per cent, expectations will be high for him to behave uncharacteristically: that is, to be bold and explicit.
With the latest data showing that there was no job growth during the month of August, Mr Obama is under pressure to come up with short-term measures to spur economic and job growth. With a hostile Congress and limited resources, this is no simple matter.
Moreover, the US president is … not help his cause either.

b. jobs
AP 9/8 Associated Press, September 8, 2011
In one upbeat sign for … might support a payroll tax cut.
"It is not games and politics for people out across this country. It's real," Cantor said about the state of the economic debate. "The fact that we have had such sustained joblessness in this country, the fact that people are doing anything they can in many instances just to stay afloat and to pay the bills, it's real."
At the heart of Obama's … applies to earnings up to $106,800.


PC doesn’t influence the passage of legislation
Dickinson, 09 – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/)
As for Sotomayor, from here the path toward almost certain confirmation goes as follows: the Senate Judiciary Committee is slated to hold hearings sometime this summer (this involves both written depositions and of course open hearings), which should lead to formal Senate approval before Congress adjourns for its summer recess in early August. So Sotomayor will likely take her seat in time for the start of the new Court session on October 5. (I talk briefly about the likely politics of the nomination process below).
What is of more interest … present Sotomayor as his nominee.
If we want to measure Obama’s “power”, then, we need to know what his real preference was and why he chose Sotomayor. My guess – and it is only a guess – is that after conferring with leading Democrats and Republicans, he recognized the overriding practical political advantages accruing from choosing an Hispanic woman, with left-leaning credentials. We cannot know if this would have been his ideal choice based on judicial philosophy alone, but presidents are never free to act on their ideal preferences. Politics is the art of the possible. Whether Sotomayer is his first choice or not, however, her nomination is a reminder that the power of the presidency often resides in the president’s ability to dictate the alternatives from which Congress (or in this case the Senate) must choose. Although Republicans will undoubtedly attack Sotomayor for her judicial “activism” (citing in particular her decisions regarding promotion and affirmative action), her comments regarding the importance of gender and ethnicity in influencing her decisions, and her views regarding whether appellate courts “make” policy, they run the risk of alienating Hispanic voters – an increasingly influential voting bloc (to the extent that one can view Hispanics as a voting bloc!) I find it very hard to believe she will not be easily confirmed. In structuring the alternative before the Senate in this manner, then, Obama reveals an important aspect of presidential power that cannot be measured through legislative boxscores.


Plan is popular—overcomes cost concerns
USINFO, 07 - produced by the Bureau of International Information Programs, U.S. Department of State (“Space Solar Energy Has Future, U.S. Researchers Say - Small demonstration project could help justify further research”, State Department Press Releases And Documents, 8/20, factiva)
Martin Hoffert, former chair of … justification for such an investment.
SKFTA not key to the alliance
Cooper et al 11/12/10 (William, Mark Manyin, Remy Jurenas, Michaela Platzer, Specialists in Trade + Asian Affairs @ Congressional Research Affairs, "The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications," http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34330.pdf)

==2AC SKFTA-- impact turns== 
SKFTA causes rising expectations—makes alliance collapse inevitable and causes South Korean adventurism
Kim '10
Sung Eun "Ties That Bind: Assessing the Impact of Economic Interdependence on East Asian Alliances"http://www.eai.or.kr/data/bbs/eng_report/201002251819214.pdfIn the long run, however, Seoul and ...to its long enduring security alliance.
SK adventurism causes rapid escalation and nuclear warRaska '10, Michael, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore, The Statesman "Why Can't South Korea Retaliate?" 11/25
However, since the early 1990s, South Korea’s …into a broader regional crisis.
Ratification of KORUS causes an FTA between China and Korea – overwhelms any gains to the alliance and causes China rise
Lee and Kim ‘9
Dong Sun Lee, Research Fellow, East West Center, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago, and Sung Eun Kim, PhD in Statistics, Department of Statistics, University of California, Davis. "The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment". Paper presented at the annual meeting of the ISA's 50th Annual Convention. February 15, 2009.
http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/3/1/0/6/8/pages310681/p310681-1.php
Second, even if the KORUS FTA … positive effect from the KORUS FTA.

==2AC v. Super Committee DA== 


Super committee failing now
NYT 9/26
(Calmes, Jackie and Steinhauer, Jennifer “As Sides Dig In, Panel on Deficit Has an Uphill Fight”, New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/26/us/politics/congressional-deficit-cutting-group-faces-an-uphill-fight.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1&ref=nationalcommissiononfiscalresponsibilityandreform )
As if expectations were …envision how they get to $1.2 trillion.”

No chance of a deficit reduction deal
Huffington Post 9/27
(Grim, Ryan September 27, 2011, Huffington Post, “Super Committee’s Cuts Anything But Automatic”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/09/27/super-congress-super-committee-deficit-cuts_n_982770.html)
"All of this at some point comes together…, waived, ignored or abandoned."



FEMA funding triggers the link
-it’s new spending
-it triggered a Congressional fight
Boles 9-27
Corey, “House Leaders to Seek Stopgap-Funding Approval,” Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204831304576596790157948756.html?mod=googlenews_wsj
An aide to House Majority Leader Eric Cantor …rest of the government through Nov. 18.


No risk of defense cuts and no impact
Wheeler 9-16 - worked on national security issues for 31 years for members of the U.S. Senate and for the U.S. General Accounting Office
Winslow, director of the Straus Military Reform Project, “The Not-So-Super Committee” Counterpunch
Painful as it is to remember, the August Debt Deal… dysfunction in Congress and the White House yet to observe.

O’Hanlon is a neo-con
Right Web 10
“Michael O’Hanlon,” http://www.rightweb.irc-online.org/profile/OHanlon_Michael
Michael O’Hanlon is a senor fellow at the centrist…, also a scholar based at Brookings.[12]

They’ll cut tech, not troops
Sahadi 9-30
Jeanne, “What if the debt committee fails?,” http://money.cnn.com/2011/09/30/news/economy/debt_committee/?source=cnn_bin
Automatic spending cuts. That's …defense personnel expenses.


That’s not key to hegemony
Miles 9
Donna, American Forces Press Service, Technology to enable, not replace warfighters, http://www.jfcom.mil/newslink/storyarchive/2009/no012709.html
Robots are helping to save …has not changed," he said.




AT: econ impact
Spending now solves long-term deficit
John Judis, senior editor at The New Republic and a visiting fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 11-25-2009, “The Case for Deficit Spending,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/the-case-deficit-spending?page=0,1
Won’t greater deficits lead …without deficit spending now.

AT: Asia war impact
Heg solves asian stability
Brzezinski 4 Zbigniew (Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a professor of foreign policy @ Johns Hopkins) “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership” p 110-111
Ultimately, war or peace …then set off an explosion.

==2AC weaponization/NSP DA== 

Alt cause—x37B
Axe 9-19
David, “Secret Sats, Giant Rockets: U.S. Unveils Space War Arsenal,” http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2011/09/space-war-arsenal/
Carlson highlighted the…space war is only escalating.

Uniqueness o/w the link—if Obama’s pushing cooperation now, he won’t stop b/c of the plan


Plan leads to space cooperation
Charania 2 - SpaceWorks Engineering
Positioning SSP as the next logical step after the ISS, http://www.sei.aero/eng/papers/uploads/archive/IAC-02-R.L09.pdf
SSP in terms of an infrastructure cannot compete …enlarging the alliance of supporters.



Transparency and natural barriers prevent weaponization
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”
“Your concern about weaponization of the… also removes the risk of weaponization.


Space unilateralism solves cooperation
Stone 11 - space policy analyst and strategist, MBA from Georgetown
Chris Stone, 3-2011, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1
When it comes to space exploration and development, including …objectives “worthy of a great nation”.


Turn—NSP is all talk
Krepon 10 – Co-founder of the Stimson Center
Michael, co-founder of the Stimson Center and the co-author and co-editor of Space Assurance or Space Dominance: The Case Against Weaponizing Space (2003), Open Skies, Arms Control and Cooperative Security (1992) and Commercial Observation Satellites and International Security (1990)., “The Obama Administration’s National Space Policy,” http://www.stimson.org/summaries/the-obama-administrations-national-space-policy/
After much delay, the Obama administration …leadership on space issues.


SSP is the tangible solution
Sadeh 8 - Associate Director for the Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy Eligar
Eligar, Associate Director for the Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy Eligar, The Space Review, “Space policy questions and decisions facing a new administration”, 6/9, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1146/1
Policy Choice
United States government leadership in space… did for the United States in the 1960s.

AT: Pop 2k link
Pop concludes aff
Pop 2k – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School
Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf
Regarding their use …ionising like X-ray radiation”21.


==2AC ozone DA== 
Alt cause nitrous oxide
Peter Spotts, Christian Science Staff, 8-27-2009, “The next major threat to the ozone layer: nitrous oxide,” Christian Science Monitor, http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/2009/0827/the-next-major-threat-to-the-ozone-layer-nitrous-oxide
A colorless, sweet-smelling …the 1987 Montreal Protocol.


Space launches don’t disrupt the ozone
NASA 8
NASA, 2-24-2008, Federal Government agency dedicated to space policy, “Space Shuttle and International Space Station,” NASA Kennedy Space Center Frequently Asked Questions, http://www.nasa.gov/centers/kennedy/about/information/shuttle_faq.html
Q. Is it true that launching … impact would be inconsequential.


Plan is a net-ozone saver
Martin et al 11 – Lt. Col. in the USAF
Harold Martin, et al, “Space Based Solar Power” Industry and Technology Assessment, Scholar
Wireless energy transmission will …approximately 15 (in US) to around 120.


Launches don’t hurt the ozone
Prado 2 – former US DOD engineer
Mark Prado, physicist, former U.S. DOD space engineer and consultant multinational engineering and construction companies, 2002, “Environmental Effects of SPSs on Earth,” http://www.permanent.com/p-sps-ec.htm
Many people ask about the effects …greatly reduce launch needs.


If there is a negative effect, it is very minimal
Parson 10
Robert Parson, Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 10-2010, “Do Space Shuttle Launches Damage the Ozone Layer,” Science and Engineering, http://stason.org/TULARC/science-engineering/ozone-depletion-intro/23-Do-Space-Shuttle-launches-damage-the-ozone-layer.html
23 Do Space Shuttle launches …75,000 tons per year. [Prather et al. 1990] [WMO 1991] [Ko et al.]

Space tourism guarantees ozone depletion
Anne Minard, National Geographic Researcher, 4-14-2009, “Rocket Launches Damage Ozone Layer, Study Says,” National Geographic News, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2009/04/090414-rockets-ozone.html
Increased international space …Earth's depleted ozone layer.


==2AC AT: westminster's SSP cp== 

Doesn’t sever – it’s is belonging or association with
World English Dictionary 9
(Collins English Dictionary - Complete & Unabridged 10th Edition 2009, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/its)
Of, belonging to, or associated in some way with it: its left rear wheel

Their Nansen evidence is solvency for the permutation (perm is in green, 1NC in yellow)
Nansen, 95 – founder and president of Solar Space Industries. He has been recognized as one of the key leaders in the world to develop, promote, and manage the Solar Power Satellite program since 1973. (Ralph, Sun Power: The Global Solution for the Coming Energy Crisis,
http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower14.html)
The Government Development Option A …impeding the whole operation.

Demonstration is key
NSSO 7
(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf , FS)
The second camp, primarily ..would take care of itself.


-Here’s comparative evidence – NASA is key
Gartner 4
John, “NASA Spaces on Energy Solution,” WIRED, http://www.wired.com/science/discoveries/news/2004/06/63913
Without NASA's resources and …cost-effective enough to begin launching satellites.

-Only the plan solves stimulus and NASA succeeds
McCarrick 11 - *Analyst @ Foresight Science and Tech
Dick, “Adapting NASA Technologies to Environmental and Energy Applications,” http://www.environmentalleader.com/2011/10/04/adapting-nasa-technologies-to-environmental-and-energy-applications/
An often-cited example of how public …processing technologies available for licensing, contact the Goddard Space Flight Center Innovative Partnerships Program Office (see http://ipp.gsfc.nasa.gov/).

- tax cuts for space fail
The Space Review, 2005
[an online publication whose focus is on publishing in-depth articles, essays, editorials, and reviews on a wide range of space-related topics, 10-5, “Tax policy and space commercialization”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/300/1]
The idea behind both proposals, …get investors off the sidelines.

Day is wrong
Ashworth 8 – Fellow @ the British Interplanetary Society
Stephen, Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23,http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1
Usually, Day’s articles are among …contents of the NSSO study report.


AT: net benefit…
The plan solves
Kelly 2-19 - *Space analyst for 8 years @ Florida Today
“John Kelly: NASA needs to power up PR machine,” http://www.floridatoday.com/article/20120219/COLUMNISTS0405/302190027/John-Kelly-NASA-needs-power-up-PR-machine
NASA may be entering …imperil its long-term existence.


==2AC DoD anchor tenant CP== 
CP can’t solve and it links to politics
Schwartz 10 – Specialist in Defense Aquistion @ CRS
Moshe, Specialist in Defense Acquisition @ CRS, “Defense Acquisitions: How DOD Acquires Weapon Systems and Recent Efforts to Reform the Process,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL34026.pdf
Department of Defense (DOD) efforts…, acquisition and contracting, and financial management.

Counterplan links to politics
Boss 6-29 – intern with the Energy and Environment team at the Center for American Progress
Stewart, “Military Leaders Want to Save Money and Lives with Clean Energy, While GOP Leaders Want to Stop Them,” Climate Progress, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/07/29/282842/military-clean-energy-gop/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogress%2FlCrX+%28Climate+Progress%29
Earlier this week at Politico’s “Energy & …haul doesn’t equal “fiscal conservatism.”


PERM DO BOTH

DoD procurement fails without an up-front USFG investment
NSSO 7
National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that industry has… feasibility of advanced energy technologies.”

Counterplan is the status quo – inherency proves it’s insufficient
Binns 7-1
Corey, “SPACE-BASED SOLAR POWER,” Power Engineering, http://www.power-eng.com/news/2011/07/1448632564/space-based-solar-power.html
If space-based solar-power satellites …delivery can reach up to $400 a gallon.


counterplan doesn’t solve globally – Buy American prevents investment and export for DoD acquisition
Potter 11
Matt Potter, “Pentagon Ordered to Buy American for Green Technology,” Defense Procurement News, http://www.defenseprocurementnews.com/2011/01/12/pentagon-ordered-to-buy-american-for-green-technology/#ixzz1Rjay8aLJ
One of the provisions contained in the Defense Authorization …product on time or at the necessary cost.

Specifically – it undercuts competition that is key to successful innovation
Grasso 11 - Specialist in Defense Acquisition @ CRS
Valerie, “The Berry Amendment: Requiring Defense Procurement to Come from Domestic Sources,” Congressional Research Service, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL31236.pdf
However, others (i.e., …conditions” of foreign markets.

==2AC XO CP== 
Perm do the counterplan – the counterplan is an additional clarification of the effect of the plan

Perm do both – solves presidential powers better because it is perceived as Congress submitting to executive demands

*Executive orders increase political opposition
Steven Schier, December 2011, Presidential Studies Quarterly, The Contemporary Presidency: The Presidential authority problem and the political power trap, p. 147
Obama initially …
now by Obama.

Doesn’t solve
a) Funding – the executive can’t spend billions of dollars – Congressional appropriation is key to solve short-term fiscal stimulus

b) Congressional signal is key
Mahan 7 – Leader @ SBSP Advocacy
Rob Mahan, Team Leader for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, 2007, “Citizens for Space Based Solar Power,” http://c-sbsp.org/home/
The U.S. Government …and economic development.”

Executive orders increase political opposition
Steven Schier, December 2011, Presidential Studies Quarterly, The Contemporary Presidency: The Presidential authority problem and the political power trap, p. 147
Obama initially enjoyed…
and now by Obama.

==2AC FSE CP== 

Perm do the counterplan

The CP is plan plus —it collects solar and non solar electrons
Thomas—their author-- ‘8 (Michael E. Thomas, CEO, President, and Chairman of Colossal Storage Corporation, over 25 years in microelectronics, “Renewable - Free Energy for the World – Forever,” 7-21-2008, http://www.prlog.org/10091881-renewable-free-energy-for-the-world-forever.html)
Microwave power can now … klystron microwave system.



CP is only a million dollars—doesn’t solve econ
Thomas—their author-- ‘8 (Michael E. Thomas, CEO, President, and Chairman of Colossal Storage Corporation, over 25 years in microelectronics, “Renewable - Free Energy for the World – Forever,” 7-21-2008, http://www.prlog.org/10091881-renewable-free-energy-for-the-world-forever.html)
Today’s space power …genius and ingenuity to make it reality.

Turn – counterplan leads to debris, tanks solvency
Blake 11
Heidi, “Space so full of junk that a satellite collision could destroy communications on Earth,” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/Space-so-full-of-junk-that-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html
This “chain reaction” ….kind of destructive force."

GEO avoids this
CETS 95
Commission on Engineering and Technical Solutions, “Hazards to Space Operations from Debris,” National Academies Press, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=4765&page=79
FIGURE 4-5 Meteoroid environment ..lower only 500 km above or


LEO leads to thermal cycling – prevents satellite life-line
Dai 6 – Professor of Nanosciences
Liming, editor, “Carbon Nanotechnology: Recent Developments in Chemistry, Physics, Materials Science and Device Applications,” p. 688
2.8 Thermal cycling
Spacecraft in LEO can experience …spacecraft has less influence.

CP fails—LEO magnetic flux and radiation will destroy it
Hollaway 11
(Hollaway, L.C., Ph. D, and Professor at the University of Surrey, March 15 2011, “Thermoplastic –Carbon Fiber Composites Could Aid Solar-Based Power Generation: Possible Support System for Solar Power Satellites”, Journal of Composites for Construction)
The environment encountered in orbit …period, during their fabrication and deployment.


==2AC Heidegger== 
FW: prior questions are only relevant if they prove that the aff is a bad idea

Ontological focus is bad—it’s subjective, non-falsifiable, and authoritarian
Graham, ‘99
Phil Graham, Graduate School of Management , University of Queensland, Heidegger’s Hippies: A dissenting voice on the “problem of the subject” in cyberspace, Identities in Action! 1999, http://www.philgraham.net/HH_conf.pdf
Of course, “the problem of the subject” …franca and world currency (Adorno 1964/19731973).

Perm do the plan and [all non mutually exclusive components of the alt]

DOUBLE BIND

We have an obligation to discuss climate change in security debates
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 142
The security dimension …anything but the shortest timescales.


Calculative thought is good—it’s key to resist of oppression,
Campbell 99 – Professor of International Politics
David, Prof of Int’l Politics @ Univ. of Newcastle, Moral Spaces, p. 50-51
In pursuing Derrida on the question …negotiated, but not escaped or transcended.
Action to prevent extinction comes before ontology
Santoni 85 - Maria Theresa Barney Chair Emeritus of Philosophy at Denison University (Ronald, “Nuclear War: Philosophical Perspectives” p 156-157)
To be sure, Fox sees the need for our undergoing …as the final arbiter of our planet’s fate.



Inaction and pure ontological focus justifies genocide
Rockmore 91 – Prof of Philosophy
Tom, On Heidegger’s Nazism and Philosophy Dusquesne University Prof of Phil http://publishing.cdlib.org/ucpressebooks/view?docId=ft6q2nb3wh;brand=ucpress
Heidegger's failure to denounce, …fails the test of experience.

alt can’t overcome tech thought
George Kateb (William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Politics, Emeritus, at Princeton University) 1997 “Technology and Society” Social research Vol 64 Issue 3
But the question arises …not want to block it reemergence.

==2AC Taoism K== 
The introduction of nuclear weapons to the social field negates Taoism’s central argument – we must revise it’s ideology to allow prevention of nuclear conflict
Warrick 80
Warrick Professor of English at the University of Wisconsin 1980 Patricia Science Fiction Studies, Vol 7 No 2 jstor
2. Returning now to …finally cosmic domination.


Any problem they identify with futurism will only be worse in a world where we give up. Either others will decide for us or we will be overwhelmed by crises. Futurism may have flaws but scenario planning by citizens is the best hope we have.
Kurasawa 4 (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004)

None of this …here and now.

Short-sightedness makes life disposable—the techno-strategic logic they indict is at its worst when we refuse to consider long-term consequences. Future orientation is the only way to make better decisions.
Kurasawa 4 (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004)

At another level, …of preventive foresight.

Policy analysis based on facts and objective evaluation of data avoids a slide into violent and undemocratic politics – the alternative is suppression and hierarchy – post positivist arguments to the contrary have no logic
Lynn 99 – Sid Richardson Research Prof. in LBJ School of Public Affairs @ UT Austin (Laurence, Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, “A Place at the Table: Policy Analysis, Its Postpositive Critics, and the Future of Practice”, 18:3 )

Policy analysis, says …
practitioners of various persuasions.

==2AC cards Introna K== 
A debate over the viability of SSP is vital to influencing policymakers for its adoption – greater public awareness is essential
Woodell 2k – Analyst @ CMRC
Mary Woodell, analyst with Controversy Management and Risk Communication, 2000, “Power from space: the policy challenge,” Space Policy, May, Science Direct
The scientific community has a …one else will do it for them.

Ontological focus is bad—it’s subjective, non-falsifiable, and authoritarian
Graham, ‘99
Phil Graham, Graduate School of Management , University of Queensland, Heidegger’s Hippies: A dissenting voice on the “problem of the subject” in cyberspace, Identities in Action! 1999, http://www.philgraham.net/HH_conf.pdf
Of course, “the problem …world currency (Adorno 1964/19731973).


Action to prevent extinction comes before ontology
Santoni 85 - Maria Theresa Barney Chair Emeritus of Philosophy at Denison University (Ronald, “Nuclear War: Philosophical Perspectives” p 156-157)
To be sure, Fox sees ….final arbiter of our planet’s fate.


Alt fails-- reconceptualizing anthropocentrism and hospitality is impossible
Introna 9—their article
(Introna, Lucas, Professor of Organization, Technology, and Ethics, November 14, 2009, Vol. 25, Pgs. 93-102, “The ‘Measure of a Man’ and the Ethos of Hospitality: Towards an Ethical Dwelling with Technology”, AI & Soc)
What now? In considering… nothing in common (Lingis 1994).

Alt fails: their author concedes these innate moral prejudices are inescapable
Introna 9—their article
(Introna, Lucas, Professor of Organization, Technology, and Ethics, November 14, 2009, Vol. 25, Pgs. 93-102, “The ‘Measure of a Man’ and the Ethos of Hospitality: Towards an Ethical Dwelling with Technology”, AI & Soc)
Obviously one can …whom we have nothing in common?

==2AC cap K== 

Their moral tunnel vision is complicit with the evil they criticize
Issac, 02—Professor of Political Science at Indiana-Bloomington, Director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, PhD from Yale (Jeffery C., Dissent Magazine, Vol. 49, Iss. 2, “Ends, Means, and Politics,” p. Proquest)
As a result, the most important political …it undermines political effectiveness.

Perm solves best-- anti-reformism dooms any movement away from capitalism
Burrows 1
Paul Burrows, author and publisher from the SMAC lecture series New Colonist April 2001 http://www.newcolonist.com/altcap.html

I think that if …experiments to support.)

Capitalism is sustainable and there is no alternative
Grossburg 92
Lawrence, Communication Studies Professor at UNC, We Gotta Get Out of This Place, pg. 388-389
If it is capitalism …investments rather than profits.

Alternatives to Capitalism end in war and genocide
Rummel 4 Rudolph Rummel, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Hawaii, The Killing Machine that is Marxism, Online - THE MORE POWER YOU GIVE THE GOVERNMENT, THE MORE POWER THEY HAVE OVER THEIR CITIZENS, SO HUMAN LIFE AND WELFARE WILL BE SACRIFICED
Of all religions, …kill its own citizens.


Capitalism isn’t the root cause of war
Dandeker 92
Chris, Professor of Military Sociology in the Department of War Studies at King’s College London, The Causes of War and the History of Modern Sociological Theory,” Effects of War on Society, Edited by Giorgio Ausenda, Published by the Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Social Stress by Boydell & Brewer Ltd, ISBN 0851158684, 1st Edition Published in 1992, 2nd Edition Published in 2002, p. 44-46
All these arguments …of modern nation-states (Dandeker 1990:51; Giddens 1985:172).

Cap solves war and poverty
Norberg 3
Johan Norberg, Fellow at Timbro and CATO, MA with a focus in economics and philosophy, In Defense of Global Capitalism, pg. 288

Globalization brings with …nationalism will gain ground.

Cap solves failed states
Ted Robert Gurr et al, Director, Minorities at Risk Project; Distinguished University Professor, Department of Government & Politics at the University of Marylan, 9-30-2000, State Failure Task Force Report: Phase III Findings, http://www.cidcm.umd.edu/inscr/stfail/SFTF%20Phase%20III%20Report%20Final.pdf
Assessing the Impact of Trade …encourage political stability.

extinction
Yoo 5
John, Professor of Law, University of California at Berkeley School of Law, Failed States, Int’l Colloquium, Online
Failed states pose …the problem of failed states

==2AC economic competitiveness K== 


Sole focus on reps fails
Tuathail 96 (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)
While theoretical debates …patterned mess that is human history.

US economic leadership is k/t multilateral cooperation
Posen 9 - deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics
Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf
In the postwar period, US …following priority measures.


Competitive is inescapable—we must work within it
Bristow & Wells, beg authors, 2005
[Gillian and Peter, Profs @Cardiff, Innovative Discourses for sustainable local development, Int. J. Innovation and Sustainable Development, Vol. 1, Nos. 1/2, 2005]

In an era of large-scale …a sustainable society. (178)

Alt fails
Erica Schoenberger , Prof of Geography with Joint Appointment in Anthropology @ Johns Hopkins, BA History Stanford, MCP Berkeley, PHD Berkeley, Discourse and Practice …
tend to open up or foreclose. (3)

Competition fosters coop, solves the impact.
Trapido, 2007
[Denis, Business Professor, Stanford, “Competitive Embeddedness and the Emergence of Interfirm Cooperation,” Social Forces, Volume 86, Number 1, September 2007, pp. 165-191]

The definition of economic competition… specification is justified.

Criticizing US imperialism backfires
Shaw 2
Martin Shaw, professor of international relations at University of Sussex, April 7, Uses and Abuses of Anti-Imperialism in the Global Era, http://www.martinshaw.org/empire.htm
It is fashionable in some …at the end of this paper.

T/ heg solves genocide
McMaster 3 (Brigadier General H. R. Hoover Institution 3 Feb 17 http://www.hoover.org/pubaffairs/dailyreport/archive/2848556.html.) TBC 7/9/10
Although the dangers of careless …leads to more dangerous conflicts.



==2AC Fem K== 
Claims of a single root cause deny complex causality and inter-relationships – entirely untrue and justifies other forms of oppression
Crenshaw, PhD, 2
Carrie, PhD, Perspectives In Controversy: Selected Articles from CAD, Scholar
Feminism is not …or societal consciousness raising.

War makes patriarchy more likely – proves the impact short-circuits the alternative
Workman 96
Thom, Poli Sci @ U of New Brunswick, YCISS Paper no. 31, p. 4, January 1996, http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/OP31-Workman.pdf
With the loosening of …reproduction of women's oppression.


Economic decline leads to gender discrimination and sexual violence
Hughes 8
Scott, April, Poverty Causes Teen Sex Problems, http://millionsofmouths.com/blog/nfblog/2008/04/08/poverty-causes-teen-sex-problems/

So far, I have only read …crime and sex violence.


b) We have an obligation to change material conditions
Peterson 92
Editor V Spike, Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Arizona, Gendered States, pg. 58
Finally, as we reach …that means all of us.


==2AC security K== 
Reps focus fails
Tuathail 96 (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)
While theoretical debates …that is human history.


We have an obligation to discuss climate change in security debates
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 142
The security dimension …the shortest timescales.


The alt has no strategy—doing nothing doesn’t change tech reps of the SQ
Murray, 97 Professor Politics at the University of Wales, 1997 (Alastair J.H., Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, p. 185-6)
Yet Linklater concedes that ‘it is not at all ….attempting to address them.

Perm do the plan and all non-competitive parts of the alt – if the alt can overcome other instances of space tech discourse, perm solves residual links


Alt can’t solve—securitization and competition are inevitable
Thayer 04 – Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 75-76 //adi]
The central issue …shelter, or other resources).


The alt replicates the wars its trying to prevent—calculation and problem solving are good
Murray 97 – Professor of Politics at the University of Wales Swansea (Alastair J. H. “Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics” 1997, p. 193-196, MT)
It should be clear from the preceding …conditions must first be ensured.

Perm do the plan and reject space tech discourse in all other instances—if they get to sever their reps, we can sever ours



This is empirically verifiable – hegemony creates costs to conflict that deter international aggression
Moore 4 – Dir. Center for Security Law and Professor of Law @ University of Virginia, Editor of the American Journal of International Law
John Norton, “Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace,” pg. 30-31
As so broadly conceived, …such settings.


Realism is the most accurate theory of international relations – minor counter-examples don’t disprove the overarching predictive nature of anarchic sovereign states*
Amin et al 11 – PhD Candidate @ Institute of International Studies, in People’s Republic of China
Musarat, Rizwan Naseer, PhD Candidate @ Institute of International Studies, in People’s Republic of China, Tilak Ishtiaq, MA in IR @ University of Sargodha, Pakistan, “Realism - Dominating Theory in International Relations: An analysis,” Berkeley Journal of Social Sciences, Vol. 1, No. 7
Realism is sometimes described as dominant theory in the field of International Relations. Realism has been implicated in almost every major debate over the last half century. ‘Theory of Political Realism’… in international relations.

==2AC CSP cp== 
Icing, aircraft, and wind make it unreliable—forces return to conventional fuel
Henson, their author, 11
(Henson, Keith, the oil drum, September 3, 2011, “WOULD THIS WORK? Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles Above The Earth”, http://www.businessinsider.com/would-this-work-concentrated-solar-power-12-miles-above-the-earth-2011-9)
Icing is a concern, …a conventional power plant.

Only solves 1/3 energy concerns
Agiletti 9
GUGLIELMO AGLIETTI et al.: member of the Royal Aeronautical Society and the American Association of Aeronautics and Astronautics, PhD at School of Engineering Science, “HARNESSING HIGH-ALTITUDE SOLAR POWER”, IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, Vol. 24, No. 2, June 2009, Stefano Redi, Adrian R. Tatnall, Senior Space Systems Engineer at British Aerospace, and Thomas Markvart, B.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in mathematical physics from the University of Birmingham, http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=04957576
This paper has examined …harvest renewable energy.

CP can’t beam energy
Henson, their author, 11
(Henson, Keith, the oil drum, September 3, 2011, “WOULD THIS WORK? Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles Above The Earth”, http://www.businessinsider.com/would-this-work-concentrated-solar-power-12-miles-above-the-earth-2011-9)
The concept in this …a company called StratoSolar.


==2AC cyber security politics== 
House GoP prevent blockage
The Hill 10/30
[The Hill. 10/30/11 ln]
"Unfortunately, time is not … comply with federal cybersecurity standards.

Political capital can’t influence them
Isquith 10-19
Elias, “Sometimes the bully pulpit ain’t so bully,” http://ordinary-gentlemen.com/eliasisquith/2011/10/19/sometimes-the-bully-pulpit-aint-so-bully/
Responding to the continuing ill … an Obama approval rating of 60%.

Not top of the agenda
Rashid 10-30
Fahmida, “Cyber-Attackers Already Targeting Critical Infrastructure: DHS,” http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Security/CyberAttackers-Already-Targeting-Critical-Infrastructure-DHS-573564/
Congress needs to act to … for a vote this legislative session.

Air gap solves cyberterror
Poulsen 7
Kevin, Writer for Wired magazine, “ ‘Cyberwar’ and Estonia’s panic attack,” August 22,http://blog.wired.com/27bstroke6/2007/08/cyber-war-and-e.html
There’s no doubt that the … laundry and walk your dog.

Turn – overload – cyber-bill leads … information overload, makes protections worse
Katznelson 10-23
Zachary, “Commentary: The Patriot Act, cyber-edition,” http://www.kansascity.com/2011/10/23/3214814/commentary-the-patriot-act-cyber.html
Cybersecurity is the new buzzword … too static and prevents innovation

Turn – rigidity – private sector solves cyber-terrorism now – legislation is too static and prevents innovation
Lee 11
Amy, “White House Cybersecurity Plan Feared Inadequate By Experts, Could Violate Privacy,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/05/13/white-house-cybersecurity-plan_n_861738.html
Experts fear a new government plan … – liberal democracy – cyber-bill collapses it

Turn – liberal democracy – cyber-bill collapses it
Burghardt 10
Tom, “Obama's National Cybersecurity Initiative: Privacy and Civil liberties are Damned,” http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=17993
As long time readers of … destruction of our democratic rights.

The impact is war
Zakaria, PhD in Political Science from Harvard, 97
Fareed, PhD in Political Science from Harvard, editor of Newsweek International, Foreign Affairs, “The Rise of Illiberal Democracy”, November/December, Proquest
The distinction between liberal and … democracy safe for the world.

==2AC pay roll tax cuts DA== 
Won’t pass – agreement on premise will not overcome disagreement over offsets
The Hill 2/1
http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/domestic-taxes/208025-conference-committee-on-some-of-the-same-pages-on-payroll-tax
The 20 lawmakers …after the meeting.

Obama has zero political capital – Congress will block no matter what
News Herald 1/31 (News Herald. 31 January 2012. “Congress Obstructs Obama’s Domestic Agenda”. http://www.newsherald.com/articles/record-100057-congress-year.html)
The Washington Times …malpractice," the president said.


GOP focusing on pipeline
NYT 2/1
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/02/us/politics/for-gop-pipeline-is-central-to-agenda.html
WASHINGTON — Just six months ago, …
of pipeline jobs.

Obama must exert effort and he can get his agenda
Kuttner 11
Robert Kuttner, co-founder and co-editor of The American Prospect, as well as a distinguished senior fellow of the think tank Demos. “Barack Obama’s Theory of Power”. The American Prospect. May 16, 2011. http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=barack_obamas_theory_of_power
Obama’s critics contend…, it hasn’t worked.


Extending the Payroll Tax Cut won’t solve the economy – economic experts and empirics
Bartlett 11
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations, 8/30 (The Case Against a Payroll Tax Cut, economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/08/30/the-case-against-a-payroll-tax-cut/)
In theory, the …the tax wedge.

PC is not key
Dickinson 11 – Professor of Political Science
Matthew, professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, 3-21-2011, “Friedman Weighs In On the “Passionless” President – But Is He Right?,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2011/03/21/friedman-weighs-in-on-the-passive-president-but-is-he-right/
Friedman’s complaint regarding… writes on this score

==2AC interference DA== 
SPS inevitable but now’s key
Prado 2 – former US DOD engineer
Mark Prado, physicist, former U.S. DOD space engineer and consultant multinational engineering and construction companies, 2002, “Environmental Effects of SPSs on Earth,” http://www.permanent.com/p-sps-ec.htm
Putting off the problem until later only... It's only a matter of when, and who.

Studies prove no interference
-their evidence ignores scientific studies
Ramos 2k—Kim, Major in the USAF and graduate of the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLLEGE
April 2000, “SOLAR POWER CONSTELLATIONSIMPLICATIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_73510976-ad5e-4d5d-a51c-a7103406f67d/display.aspx?rs=enginespage
The final barrier to implementation …interference as an issue to resolve.


ITU coordination solves
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon, http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/
How does a company …transmissions will not disrupt existing services.



Alt caus – solar flares
Hines 3
Matt, Science Staff, http://news.cnet.com/More-solar-flares-warm-satellite-concerns/2100-1033_3-5098950.html
The sun erupted in a series of major …United States as a result of the flares.


SSP solves asteroids
Schwab, 02 – director of the Homeland Defense Institute, former fellow with the Space Security Working Group of the Eisenhower Institute, and currently serves on the steering committee of the International Association of Space Entrepreneurs (Martin, “The New Viability of Space Solar Power: Global Mobilization for a Common Human Endeavor” 4/15, http://web.archive.org/web/20060102081311/www.homeplanetdefense.org/Space+Solar+Power1.pdf) (Note – while this link works, a text search in google won’t - you will need a web archive search on homeplanetdefense.org to find this)
Using SSP/Communications Platforms to Detect and Deflect Small Asteroids and Comets
Economic considerations play … Livermore National Laboratories.42

==2AC GEO disad== 
SPS inevitable but now’s k/
Prado 2 – former US DOD engineer
Mark Prado, physicist, former U.S. DOD space engineer and consultant multinational engineering and construction companies, 2002, “Environmental Effects of SPSs on Earth,” http://www.permanent.com/p-sps-ec.htm
Putting off the problem …only a matter of when, and who.

Space unilateralism solves cooperation
Stone 11 - space policy analyst and strategist, MBA from Georgetown
Chris Stone, 3-2011, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1
When it comes to space exploration…“worthy of a great nation”.



ITU coordination solves
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon, http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/
How does a company …disrupt existing services.

Competition high now
Powersat 10
Intercollegiate SPS Design Competition, http://powersatcontest.com/comp.html
Earth orbit in 2015 …communication satellite "slots".

Their math is off – multiple satellites can occupy the same orbital slot
Nelson 9 – PhD
Robert, “GEO Satellite question,” Applied Technology Institute, http://www.aticourses.com/blog/index.php/2009/11/18/geo-satellite-question/
Dear Dr. Nelson: I understand …stationkeeping must be maintained.

This is specifically true for SPS
Potter et al 9 - Associate Technical Fellow at The Boeing Company
Seth, “Space Solar Power Satellite Alternatives and Architectures,” AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting, http://www.sspi.gatech.edu/aiaa-2009-0462_ssp_alternatives_potter.pdf
Unused GEO orbital …share common platforms

Layering of GEO allows 47000 slots
Gould 9
Len, Comment on the article “Space Based Solar Power?,” http://www.theoildrum.com/node/5314
Just a further note on the "Gould orbits", …(all assuming 100 km separation).

If their link argument is correct, other applications will just go to LEO
Carlo 97 – PhD Candidate
D, “Mobile Satellite Communications,” http://home.mira.net/~marcop/mobile.htm
Clearly the satellite had greater …transport of computer traffic.

==2AC AT:warming good--ice age== 
Global warming is faster and comparatively worse
Chameides 8 – Professor of Environment @ Duke
Bill Chameides, PhD, Yale University, “Pulse of the Planet: A New Ice Age IS Coming ... but Don't Hold Your Breath,” 11-17-2008, http://www.nicholas.duke.edu/thegreengrok/iceage-nature
Skeptics have been …problem is near term and very significant."

SSP solves ice age
Hempsell 6 - University of Bristol
Mark Hempsell, Mark, “Space power as a response to global catastrophes,” 2006, Acta Astronautica, v. 59, Science Direct
One of the common …be used together.


Warming causes volcanic activity
Thompson 7 - MA from GA Tech
Andrea Thompson, Graduate from Georgia Tech with a B.S. in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences in 2004 and a Master's in the same subject in 2006. 2007, http://www.livescience.com/environment/070830_gw_quakes.html
Earthquakes, volcanic …eruptions," McGuire said.

Causes an ice age
NASA 98
[http://www.gsfc.nasa.gov/gsfc/service/gallery/fact_sheets/earthsci/eos/volcanoes.pdf] Volcanoes and Global Climate Change, Earth Science Enterprise Series/ May
The eruption of a …s of years," Sparks said.

==2AC AT: warming good-- CO2 ag== 
ag collapsing now
Gillis 11
Justin Gillis, Editor @ NYT, 6-11-2011, “A Warming Planet Struggles to Feed Itself,” Factiva
Sitting with a… season is also shrinking.”


Co2 doesn’t boost yields – any growth is short-term and hypothetical
Jackson 9 – Research molecular biologist @ USDA
Eric, 2009, “The international food system and the climate crisis,” The Panama News, Lexis
A major weakness … reductions in yield.

Turn – pollution leads to ozone – tanks ag – outweighs any benefit from CO2
Monbiot 7 – Professor @ Oxford
George, Professor @ Oxford Brookes University, Heat: How to Stop the Planet from Burning, pg. 7
But now, I am sorry to say… dioxide concentrations.

==2AC AT: heg bad== 
US Heg deters China and leads to stabilization allowing a political solution to be brokered.
Odgaard 2001
(Liselotte, Asst Prof, of Political Science, University of Aarhus, Denmark, “Deterrence and Co-operation in the South China Sea”, Contemporary Southeast Asia, Aug 1, lexis)
The South China …co-operative ties with China


Heg solves terrorism
Schmitt 6
Gary, Scholar @ The American Enterprise Institute, Pax Americana, http://www.eng.gees.org/articulo/6/
The core argument …absence of such power."

Terrorism doesn’t pose an existential risk
Fettweis, Professor of Political Science, 10
Chris, Professor of Political Science @ Tulane,Threat and Anxiety in US Foreign Policy, Survival, 52:2
Even terrorists equipped …represent existential threats


Economic decline leads to terrorism
Thomas 8
John Thomas, Professor of Economics, January 18 2008, Becker-Posner Blog, Accessed April 8 2008, http://www.becker-posner-blog.com/archives/2008/01/terrorism_and_e.html

However lack of …any means necessarily.

==2AC AT: dedev== 
SSP solves limits to growth and makes growth benign—solves the turns
Collins and Autino 10 - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy
Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct
Economic development in space …
to preserve civilised society [22,27].

Decline leads to failed states—makes Trainer’s conserver society impossible
Rothkopf 9
David, Visiting Fellow @ Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, 3/11/9. CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis

The crisis eats ….national interests worldwide.

Extinction
Yoo 5
John, Professor of Law, University of California at Berkeley School of Law, Failed States, Int’l Colloquium, Online

Failed states pose …problem of failed states.

No transition – decline devastates movements
Mead 9
2/4, Walter Russell, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, Only Makes You Stronger: Why the recession bolstered America, The New Republic

Every crisis is different… happening yet again.

No Transition
Barnhizer 6 – Professor @ CSU
David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
The scale of social …
consequences of our behavior.



Transition/mindset shift hurt the environment
Bast 94
Joseph Bast, president, Heartland Institute, ECO-SANITY, 1994, p. 193

It is time to update …wrong-headed and counterproductive.


The environment is too far gone—there’s only a risk that growth can solve
Martin Lewis professor in the School of the Environment and the Center for International Studies at Duke University. Green Delusions, 1992 p18-19
In marked contrast…of technological progress.

Econ decline leads to environmental collapse
Richard 8
Michael Graham, staff writer, Tree Hugger, http://www.treehugger.com/files/2008/02/4_reasons_recession_bad_environment.php
As a counter-point to … progress on global warming...



Decline causes disease
Rice 6
Susan, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Global Economy and Development, The National Security Implications of Global Poverty, Online

Poverty contributes substantially …among immigrant populations.

Diseases lead to extinction
Fox 97
C. William. Lieutenant COLONEL. 6/24/97. http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=4341F68C-1AF1-FEB7-10D7-5EE127216D05&lng=en.

HIV is a pandemic killer …weapons of mass destruction.
==2AC AT: oil DAs== 
===AT: backstopping=== 
None of their ev assumes government support – that solves backstopping
Henriques and Sadorsky ‘8 (Irene, and Peter, Schulich School of Business in Canada, “Oil prices and the stock prices of
alternative energy companies,” http://isites.harvard.edu/fs/docs/icb.topic741392.files/EnergyStockPrices.pdf, Energy Economics 30 (2008) 998–1010, AM)

Investors in technology have …alternative energy related products.


===AT: Russian oil DA-- economy=== 
Oil not key to Russian economy
Energy Bulletin 07 – International news group that discusses recourse, energy and other issues (“Russia to reform national economy to get rid of oil dependence,” June 22, 2007, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/31278)
On the other hand, … plants running on coal only.

Turn – oil collapses Russian investment diversity
Glatthorn 11 – Haley, Daily Staff Reporter (March, 2011, “Rice Discusses International Dynamics of Oil Dependency,” http://www.michigandaily.com/news/condoleezza-rice-talks-alternative-energy-oil-lecture, Michigan Daily)
Rice gave the annual College … so dependent on these countries.”

===AT: Saudi Arabia oil DA=== 
Saudi Arabia is prepared for a shift to renew
Tenders Info, 10
(Saudi Arabia : Aramco sees growing role for renewables in global energy mix, 5/7/10, Nexis)
Saudi Arabia s national oil … and the Middle East to Europe.
===AT: Iran oil DA=== 

Sanctions have already collapsed Iranian oil—even if prices increase, no one will do business with them
Bozorgmehr 11 Ford Foundation Visiting Fellow with Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings Institute (4/21/11, Najmeh, Financial Times, “Iran oil impasse takes toll”, Lexis SW)
Oil and gas-rich …
a western oil executive says.




=Negative= 
==Disads== 
===Cybersecurity (politics DA at Harvard)=== 
1NC
It’s TOA and Bipartisan
Washington Post 2/17
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/checkpoint-washington/post/divisions-erupt-over-cybersecurity-bill/2012/02/17/gIQAG348IR_blog.html
The legislation was …sides of the aisle.”

SPS drains Political Capital- influential energy lobbies ensure massive battle
Preble 06, Darel, Space Solar Power Institute, “Introduction to the motion to the National Space Society Board of Directors,” 12/15 NM
Changing our nation …breaking a few eggs.

Presidential leadership key – needs to cut bargains
Chabrow 1-26-12 – executive editor of GovInfoSecurity.com, a leading website that covers government cybersecurity, Eric, The State of the Union's Cybersecurity, Gov Info Security
This statement received… cybersecurity legislation passed.


Cybersecurity k/t solve miscalc
Sebastian 9 Rohan Sebastian, research for the office of Virginia Senator Mark Warner CS Computer Science from UVA., The Federal Government’s Role in Preserving Cybersecurity for Critical Infrastructure, 7-24, http://www.sts.virginia.edu/pip/docs/papers/Sebastian_09_r.pdf
Critical Infrastructure Government …with this problem.


Cyber miscalc escalates to nuclear war
Lawson 9 (Sean, PhD, expert in information-age warfare. "Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation" 13 May. www.seanlawson.net/?p=477)
The reason, in …or greater seriousness.” [7]


Dead Hand cards from block
Happens Quickly- Cyber conflict leads to crisis instability – encourages fast escalation
Clarke 10
Richard Clarke, MA from MIT, Teaches @ the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, is an internationally-recognized expert on security, including homeland security, national security, cyber security, and counterterrorism, 2010, “Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to do About it,” http://fffm.org/Institute/documents/Cyber_War-the_Next_Threat_to_National_Security.pdf
The launch on …itchy keyboard finger.



That triggers nuclear war – leads to dead hand launch
Fritz 9
A study commissioned by the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament Hacking Nuclear Command and Control Jason Fritz BS (St. Cloud), July 2009
Direct control of launch… Soviet leadership and military.
Extinction
Rosenbaum 7
Ron Rosenbaum, award winning journalist and author, 8/31/2007. “The Return of the Doomsday Machine?” Slate, http://www.slate.com/id/2173108/pagenum/all/
"The nuclear doomsday …1985. It is still in place."



===Pay Roll Tax Cuts DA-- Iran scenario=== 
Gives Obama a boost in the polls
Moberg 11
David. Staff Writer, “Will Obama’s Job Plan Save His?” In These Times, http://inthesetimes.com/article/12163/will_obamas_job_plan_save_his
Even if …not insignificant edge.

That solves an attack on Iran
Akram 1-11 - former Pakistan ambassador to the UN
1/11/2012, Munir, “The road to another war,” http://www.dawn.com/2012/01/11/the-road-to-another-war.html
A second concern …all right-thinking policymakers.

Extinction
Hirsch 5 – physics professor, Ph.D., University of Chicago
Nov 21, Jorge, http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=8089
The Bush administration …many times over.


===Clean tech DA=== 
Cleantech investment is increasing now – perception of demand is key
Asset International 12
“Investors to Pursue Clean Tech Private Equity Despite Challenges, Paper Says,” http://www.ai-cio.com/channel/NEWSMAKERS/Investors_to_Pursue_Clean_Tech_Private_Equity_Despite_Challenges,_Paper_Says.html
Institutional investors and …clean energy solutions.

The plan shifts this investment into SSP
PREF 11 - non‐profit organization whose mission is to bring renewable energy into the mainstream of the US economy and lifestyle through research, education, convening, and communications
US Partnership for Renewable Energy Finance, “Venture Capital’s Role in the US Renewable Energy Sector,” http://reffwallstreet.com/us-pref/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/US-PREF-Venture-Capital-White-Paper-Version-v2.1.pdf
Venture capital as …requirements of new companies.
Global war
Klarevas 9 – Professor of Global Affairs
Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html
By not addressing …foes in check.

===SSP interference DA=== 



SPS leads to interference – hurts asteroid detection, leads to light pollution and collapses GPS
Weigel 7 – Assistant Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyAnnalisa, “Solar Power Satellites: Historical Perspectives with a Look to the Future,” November, http://lean.mit.edu/docman/2007-conference-papers/view-category.htmlA major concern about the … SPS would create light pollution.32


Extinction
Matheny 7– former associate at Oxford, MPJ from HopkinsJason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htmEven if extinction events are … humanity and those that threaten 100%.

===China DA=== 

US-China Space Cooperation is Increasing Now
Zhang, associate professor of political science @ Lingnan University, 11 (Baohui, Asian Survey, March/April, Proquest)Christopher Griffin and …of opportunity for arms control in outer space.

Plan Is Perceived as Hostile by China
Shixiu 7 - senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA [Bao, Winter 2007, China Security, “Emerging Threat,” http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf)The U.S. position makes another …China and the United States.

This Hostility Spirals to a US-China War Over Taiwan
Solomone 6 (Stacey, PhD student @ the Future Studies Program @ the U of Hawaii, Journal of Contemporary China, Volume 15, Issue 47, Taylor & Francis)PLA control of the space program may …to further illegal exportation of WMD from China.

War over Taiwan causes extinction
Straits Times 00
Ching Cheong, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis Nexis.THE high-intensity scenario …above everything else.

===Pay roll tax cuts good=== 
Obama is aggressively pushing his jobs agenda --- smaller initiatives like the payroll tax reduction are gaining republican support and are likely to passAP 10/25 “For Obama, new focus on the piecemeal,” http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5efLOS ANGELES (AP) — The president who ran for office promising sweeping change now finds ….affect individual communities.

LINK
PC is key to extension
The Inquirer, 9-8-2011
http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-taxPresident Obama goes into Thursday's big speech… major effort to privatize Social Security.

Extension is key to preventing a recession
Zandi, Chief Economist of Moody's Analytics, 10/7, 2011,
MSNBC: Intervew With Moddy's Chief Economist Mark Zandi, MSNBCZANDI: Well, republican …quickly in the very near term.

Another recession causes complete economic collapse
Shiller 10
Robert J. Shiller is a professor of economics and finance at Yale and a co-founder and the chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC., NYT, 5/16/10, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/16/business/16view.html
I use a definition of a double-dip …event, the Great Depression.

Economic decline causes nuclear warHarris and Burrows 9Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Increased Potential for Global ConflictOf course, the report encompasses more than economics …in a more dog-eat-dog world.

===NASA trade off=== 

NASA’s budget levels will demand difficult choices, but the Administration is committed to Earth science programs.

Holdren 11 – Director office of Science and Tech policy

(John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/jph-house-sst-testimony-2-17-11.pdf, 2-17)

National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) This past October, the President signed the 2010 … support for the operations of the ISS.

It will take billions of dollars to develop deflection mechanisms

Campbell 2 – Colonel USAFR

(December, Jonathan W., “Using Lasers in Space: Laser Orbital Debris Removal and Asteroid Deflection”pg. 30)



Several schemes have …impact to be implemented.





Earth sciences solves multiple scenarios for extinction, including climate change.

Killeen 5 – Phd. , Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research

(Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382) NAR



It is clear after decades of pioneering satellite… simultaneous multiple stresses.



Warming leads to extinction

Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA

Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122

The best estimates for global …cultural and political changes.


===China cyber terror DA (v. military affs)=== 
====1NC==== 

China Looking to Expand to Cyberwarfare Now But It’s Focus is Elsewhere Now
Schroeder, department of security studies @ American Military University, 10 (David A., November, pg. http://das.doit.wisc.edu/amu/Schroeder_China_Cyber_NOV10.pdf)

China is a … perhaps deserves.

( ) Causes China to Shift to Cyberwarefare Activities
Sayers and Dressler 9 (Eric, graduate of the Political Science M.A. program at The University of Western Ontario, and Jeffrey, January 29, pg. http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/076oeyqy.asp?page=2)

Perhaps the greatest …satellite capabilities with allies.
====2NC cards==== 

IMPACTS:

Cyberwar Attack Causes China To Take Out Our Space Assets
RAND 10/11/11 (Rand Corporation, pg. http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/occasional_papers/2011/RAND_OP344.pdf)
Sino-U.S. cyber-war … be no “winner.”

Happens Quickly- Cyber conflict leads to crisis instability – encourages fast escalation
Clarke 10
Richard Clarke, MA from MIT, Teaches @ the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, is an internationally-recognized expert on security, including homeland security, national security, cyber security, and counterterrorism, 2010, “Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to do About it,” http://fffm.org/Institute/documents/Cyber_War-the_Next_Threat_to_National_Security.pdf
The launch on …itchy keyboard finger.

Collapses the Economy
Chen, et. al 2 (Ruoxi, December 1, pg. http://www.cs.duke.edu/courses/fall03/cps182s/oldproj/rc17_1/finalpaper.pdf)
Prior to the … of service attacks.


That triggers nuclear war – leads to dead hand launch
Fritz 9
A study commissioned by the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament Hacking Nuclear Command and Control Jason Fritz BS (St. Cloud), July 2009
Direct control of …leadership and military.
Extinction
Rosenbaum 7
Ron Rosenbaum, award winning journalist and author, 8/31/2007. “The Return of the Doomsday Machine?” Slate, http://www.slate.com/id/2173108/pagenum/all/
"The nuclear doomsday …still in place."

AT: US prepared

US Hasn’t Hardened Our Cyberwarfare Defenses
Brenner 9/6/11 (Joel, has served as the inspector general of the national security agency, pg. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/06/the_calm_before_the_storm?page=0,1)
The United States does …a high order.

The US isn’t prepared and there’s an invisible threshold
Fisher 10
Max Fisher, Staff at the Atlantic, 9-30-2010, Fmr. Intelligence Director: New Cyberattack May Be Worse Than 9/11,” http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/09/fmr-intelligence-director-new-cyberattack-may-be-worse-than-9-11/63849/
Speaking at the Washington …to cybersecurity threats.

The US military is highly vulnerable to cyber attack
Clarke 10
Richard Clarke, MA from MIT, Teaches @ the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, is an internationally-recognized expert on security, including homeland security, national security, cyber security, and counterterrorism, 2010, “Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to do About it,” http://fffm.org/Institute/documents/Cyber_War-the_Next_Threat_to_National_Security.pdf
Fourth, the U. S. Military …Internet, may not be.


LINKS:

( ) Plan Frees Up Resources Elsewhere
Sayers 10 (Eric, pg. http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-58/JFQ58_89-93_Sayers.pdf)
Although a dissuasion .. missiles, for example.

( ) Dissuasion Theory Means They’ll Look Elsewhere
Krepinevich and Martinage 8 (Andrew and Robert, pg. http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/2008.05.06-Dissuasion-Strategy.pdf)
Even if the “right” …achieves its first-order goal.



===orbital slots DA=== 
The plan leads to conflicts over orbital slots
Wallach 10 – JD, Partner at Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP, where he serves as Co-Chair of the Litigation Group of more than 40 attorneysMark, “Legal Issues for Space Based Solar Power,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/wallach.htmlAnother major, yet still largely … used to make those decisions.

That leads to space miscalculation
Klotz 99 - Commander, Air Force Global Strike CommandFrank G. Klotz, Jan 1999, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4The scramble for geosynchronous slots … infrastructure-is a case in point.

War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction
Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.
‍
===F35 Trade Off DA=== 
( ) F-35 Survives Now But Still Vulnerable

Burnett 11 (… Richard, Orlando Sentinel, June 27, Lexis)

The Lockheed Martin Corp. F-35 road … first 32 next-generation fighter jets.



( ) Specifically, It Trades Off with Funding for the F-35

Dinerman 6 (Taylor, February 27, The Space … , pg. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1)

It’s time to admit that … other mission elements are getting.





( ) F-35 Key to US-Japan Relations

Azuma 11 (Andrew, August 2, pg. http://blog.… /2011/08/bolstering-japans-defenses-with-f-35s/)

This December, the Japanese Air … closer strategic and tactical cooperation.





A strong US-Japanese alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars

Armitage 00

Richard Armitage, Deputy Secretary of State, 10-11-00, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/press/Spelreprts/SRJAPAN.HTM “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, ACC: 9.11.04, p. online.

Major war in Europe is … to America’s global security strategy.

===Japan DA=== 

SPS coming now – key to Japanese leadership
Matai 10 – PhD in Engineering, won The Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of Innovation for Bespoke Security Architecture in 2003, authority on countering complex global threats; strategic risk management & visualisation; contingency planning; Information Operations (IO); electronic defence; biometric authentication; secure payment systems and Open Source hardened kernel solutionsDK, 6-13-2010, “Japan Takes Lead in Wireless Power? 21stC Global Energy Supply,” Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance, [[http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3Awww.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php|http://www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/frameset.php?pageid=http%3A]]www.mi2g.com/cgi/mi2g/press/130610.php In the footsteps of Nikola Tesla, Japan intends to send …final frontier in the 21st century and beyond!

Weather monitoring requires GEO because the satellites stay over one part of the earth
GIS Lab 8“Natural Hazards: Remote Sensing,” Remote Sensing, http://www.gis.unbc.ca/resources/geog100.phpEarth monitoring satellites have one …weather satellites(such as NIMBUS and GOES). Altitude ~ 36,000kmThat’s an opportunity cost// with SPSPC 5Political Calculations, 6-29-2005, “Power from Space,” http://politicalcalculations.blogspot.com/2005/06/power-from-space.htmlSecond, the opportunity cost…generating power from space.

Japanese leadership is key to Asian multilateralism
Hsiao and Yang 9 - * Ph.D., is the Executive Director of the Center for Asia-Pacific Area Studies (CAPAS), and Research Fellow at the Institute of Sociology, both at Academia Sinica, Taiwan, Ph.D., is the Postdoctoral Fellow of the Center for Asia-Pacific Area Studies (CAPAS) at Academia Sinica, Taiwan. His areas of specialization include international relations theory, Asia-Pacific regionalism and ASEANMichael and Alan, “Soft Power Politics in the Asia Pacific: Chinese and Japanese Quests for Regional Leadership,” The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus, http://www.japanfocus.org/-A_-Yang/3054Another dimension of Japan’s soft power strategy towards ASEAN …Japan and corroborate the efficacy of Tokyo’s soft power diplomacy.

That solves Asian territorial conflict
Nanto 8 – Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs SpecialistSpecialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services, East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdfA stronger regional security organization in East Asia… haunt policy makers in Asian countries.

Nuclear war
**Chakraborty 10United Service Institution of India“The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight,” http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739The first ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting Plus Eight (…possibility of turning into a nuclear conflict.

===Japan DA 2NC cards=== 

Asian conflict escalates to global nuclear war
Dibb 1 – Professor @ Australian National UniversityPaul, Professor @ Australian National University, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, ProquestThe areas of maximum …confronted with major crises.

Territorial conflicts are more likely than any affirmative conflict
Wiegand 11 – Professor of Political Science @ Georgia SouthernKrista, “Militarized territorial disputes: States’ attempts to transfer reputation for resolve,” Journal of Peace Research, 48.1, SageThe most …escalation of MIDs.

Territorial conflicts Turns disease
Valeriano et al 9 – Professor of Political Science @ UICBrandon, “Triggers of Deadly International Conflict: A Social Informatics Early Warning and Monitoring System for Territorial Disputes,” Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Network European of Peace Scientists, Amsterdam, Netherlands, June 28-31, 2009, ScholarWar is an important ..Senese and Vasquez 2003, 2005).

Asian multilateralism solves disease– Asia is ground-zero for new mutations
Green, Professor of IR, and Gill, PhD in Foreign Affairs, 9J
Michael and Bates, Asia's New Multilateralism: Cooperation, Competition, and the Search for Community, pg. 310-311Since the Asia-wide outbreak of …organized for such an eventuality.

Asian multilateralism solves global warming
Christoffersen, Professor of Political Science, 10
Gaye, November, US-China Energy Relations and Energy Institution Building in the Asia-Pacific, Journal of Contemporary China, InformaWorld
The US initiated the ..said it could only do this gradually.

SSP Solves warming-induced extinction
Hsu 10 – PhD in EngineeringFeng, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.htmlIt has become increasingly evident that …a chance to make a difference.

Japanese leadership solves terorism
Okada 5 - Secretary General of the Democratic Party of JapanKatsuya, “Toward Realization of Enlightened National Interest—Living Harmoniously with Asia and the World”, http://www.dpj.or.jp/vision/vision-e/summary.htmlIn this highly globalized …the intelligence institutions.

SSP guarantees Japanese political influence
Glaser 93 Peter, Space Consultant, Space Future, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/japan_the_21st_centurys_energy_supplier.shtmlJapan has the capability …political influence globally.


Japan is currently on the inside track- abandoning that would abdicate it
Cox 11 – JD, Public Interest LawyerWilliam, “The Race for Solar Energy from Space,” http://www.consortiumnews.com/2011/032311b.htmlIn Japan, the radiation plume …highly motivated to change directions.



Japanese development is key to Japanese soft power

Funabashi 95 – PhD from Keio, Former Professor @ Tokyo Public Policy Institute

Yoichi, “Japan's International Agenda,” pg. 79

If an argument based on soft …hegemon capable of exercising co-optive power.







Japanese ownership is uniquely key to leadership

Brown 9 – Masters in Science

Trevor, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1

And yet the tremendous ..population into its socio-political camp.









US hegemony is ineffective in Asia

Hachigan 10 – Senior Fellow at American Progress, Senior political scientist at RAND Corporation, Director of the RAND Center for Asia Pacific Policy, International affairs fellowship from the Council on Foreign Relations, National Security Council at the White House

Nina, “The False Promise of Primacy in US Foreign Policy”, World Focus, January 22, 2010, http://worldfocus.org/blog/2010/01/22/the-false-promise-of-primacy-in-us-foreign-policy/9372/

One unquestionable success of the Obama…— progress must be shared.”







Multilateralism is comparatively more effective than unilateral leadership

Khanna 10 - Parag, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation

“How’s that New World Order Working Out?” 11/29 http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/29/hows_that_new_world_order_working_out?page=full

The closest thing we have to…bottom up rather than the top down.









SPS requires substantial slot allocation – interference concerns means that slots can’t be duplicated

NRC 81

National Resource Council, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/1981NRC-ElectricPowerFromOrbit-1.Report.pdf, p. 92-93

There are at least …SPS satellite and rectennas.







GEO slots are extremely limited – the plan leads to competition over slots

Scheraga 87 - Senior Advisor for Climate Change Adaptation at U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

Joel, “ESTABLISHING PROPERTY RIGHTS IN OUTER SPACE,” CATO Journal 6.3, http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj6n3/cj6n3-10.pdf

A geosynchronous satellite ….can occupy this 75-degree arc.









Japan is leading the field now

All Gov 11

Is Space Solar the Solution to World Energy Problems?, http://www.allgov.com/Unusual_News/ViewNews/Is_Space_Solar_the_Solution_to_World_Energy_Problems_110327

In light of recent energy-related …power plant can produce.

==Counterplans== 
===Aerospace Tax Credit CP=== 
Text: The United States federal government should create a permanent tax credit for the aerospace industry for research and development related to airframe and engage technologies.

The CP solves the largest internal link to aerospace competitiveness—empirically tax incentives produce cutting-edge technologies
FAAC 10
(Department of Transportation’s recommendations via the Future of Aviation Advisory Committee to Congress, The Aviation Advisory Committee provides information, advice, and recommendations to the Secretary of Transportation on ensuring the competitiveness of the U.S. aviation industry and its capability to address the evolving transportation needs, challenges, and opportunities of the global economy. 2010; http://www.dot.gov/faac/FAAC_Recommendations.pdf; JN)

RECOMMENDATION # 2 RESEARCH AND …leadership in clean technologies.


===Stratosphere CP=== 
====1NC==== 
The United States federal government should deploy and maintain constellations of stratospheric balloon platform satellites for climate monitoring.

Stratospheric balloons dedicated to Earth Science observation solves the aff -- the technology exists – a constellation of StratoSats solves better faster and cheaper
Pankine et al 2009
“STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS” American Meteorological Society http://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/pdf/10.1175/2009BAMS2624.1
[Alexey Pankine, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California and Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California Zhanqing Li, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland
David Parson, UCAR, Boulder, Colorado Michael Purucker, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Elliot Weinstock, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts Warren Wiscombe, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. And Kerry Nock, Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California]
At present, no investment is being …dimly perceived are certain to emerge.
====block==== 
StratoSat observations eliminate uncertainty over warming and disease
Pankine et al 2009
“STRATOSPHERIC SATELLITES FOR EARTH OBSERVATIONS” American Meteorological Society http://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/pdf/10.1175/2009BAMS2624.1
[Alexey Pankine, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California and Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California Zhanqing Li, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland
David Parson, UCAR, Boulder, Colorado Michael Purucker, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Elliot Weinstock, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts Warren Wiscombe, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. And Kerry Nock, Global Aerospace Corporation, Altadena, California]
There are several potential …hundreds of such dropsondes.

StratoSat monitoring improves circulation models and in situ data both are key to more accurate early warning of weather phenomena
Nock et al 2002
[K.T. Nock, M.K. Heun, K.M. Aaron, Global Aerospace Corporation, Universities Space Research Association Research Contract,” Global Constellation of Stratospheric Scientific Platforms: Phase II Final Report,” http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/studies/final_report/397Nock.pdf]
Because airborne products of …accurate predictions will be available.


===Privatization CP=== 
Text: The United States federal government should grant a 25 year tax exemption to the first private entity that substantially increases the United States’ civil space situational awareness and establish a spectrum policy that supports property rights and individual and corporate rights in space.
Twenty five year tax exemption solves innovation and is the BEST way to spur private development.Hudgins 2004 (Edward, formerly director of regulatory studies for the Cato Institute and editor of Regulation magazine, is an expert on the regulation of space and transportation, pharmaceuticals, and labor. He served as a senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and was both deputy director for economic policy studies and director of the Center for International Economic Growth at the Heritage Foundation, “return to the moon? Not with this NASA,” The Atlas Society, http://www.atlassociety.org/return-moon-not-nasa)Or consider a radical approach …us a truly space-faring civilization.

===GDS CP (airborne nodes)=== 
The United States Department of Defense should direct all branches of the armed forces to undertake training missions without the use of space systems and develop non-space based aero capabilities. The United States Department of Defense should substantially increase the deployment of delay/disruption tolerant networking,employing asymmetric spray algorithms and spray and wait routing schemes including Largest Common Neighbor nodes routing algorithms, on its satellites.


The Counterplan’s Reduction of Reliance on Space Deters Enemies from Attacking Us
Cheng, research fellow @ the Heritage Foundation, 11 (dean, august 16, pg. http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning)
Increase alternatives to space ...“assassin’s mace” against the U.S.

AN based DTN solves the aff impacts.
1ac authors Jonson et al 8
[Thomas Jonson, Jonah Pezeshki, Victor Chao, Kristofer Smith, James Fazio, Booz Allen Hamilton 5/8, IEEE, APPLICATION OF DELAY TOLERANT NETWORKING (DTN) IN AIRBORNE NETWORKS,” pdf]
Airborne Networks (ANs) are rapidly ...net-centricity within ANs.


===visas CP=== 

The United States federal government should provide employment-based visas to graduates who earn a Masters or PhD degree from an accredited U.S. university in a science, technology, engineering or math field of study.

Counterplan solves – matching green cards with diplomas restores innovation, growth, and leadershipFrank, 09 (T.A, Irvine Fellow at the New America Foundation and an editor of theWashington Monthly, Green Cards for Grads, Washington Monthly, May/June 2009, http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/features/2009/0905.frank.html)For years, the United States effortlessly … for soldiers. It’s to avoid getting one’s ass kicked.

Retaining Foreign student is key to science leadership
CFR, 09 (Council on Foreign Relations, Broken Immigration System Risks Serious Damage to U.S. National Interests, Warns CFR Task Force, July 8, 2009, http://www.cfr.org/publication/19743/broken_immigration_system_risks_serious_damage_to_us_national_interests_warns_cfr_task_force.html)-Attracting skilled immigrants:The United States … bolster U.S. military capabilities.
‍
===Russia CP v. asteroids=== 

Text: The government of the Russian Federation should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects. The government of the Russian Federation will share technological and research capabilities with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on asteroid detection. The government of the Russian Federation will build geographically analogous research sites to the Arecibo and Goldstone telescopes.



The Russian space program can deflect asteroids

RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2010 (RusData Line, “Russia is developing equipment for exploration of a potentially dangerous asteroid,” May 19)

===elections CP v. Obama election good advantage=== 
The Republican Party should nominate Andy Martin for the 2012 presidential election.
He’s unelectable – ensures an Obama win
AZ Marijuana, 12-6-2011, “Republican Candidates’ Views on Marijuana,” http://azmarijuana.com/dans-stash/republican-candidates-views-marijuana/
Martin not only supports …the most unelectable GOP candidate.

===DSCVR CP v. solar sails=== 
The United States federal government should upgrade the Deep Space Climate Observatory to include earth-monitoring and climate measurements and accept Ukraine’s offer to launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point.


The counterplan is key to early detection of major solar storms coming in 2013- failure to act now destroys the power grid, air travel, and satellite operations
Spaceflight Now 11 (Feb 21 “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/)
The White House … solar maximum in 2013.


==Impact turns== 
===1NC heg bad=== 

Primacy will be impossible to sustain – dollar, fiscal pressure, rising challengers, overstretch
Layne 10 (Christopher Layne, Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas A&M's George H.W. Bush School of Government & Public Service. "Graceful decline: the end of Pax Americana". The American Conservative. May 2010. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7060/is_5_9/ai_n54223596/) AK
China's economy has been … themselves afflicted with hegemony fatigue.

Your authors are pessimists – great power decline brings concessions and alliancesMacDonald and Parent 11 (Paul, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, and Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment”. International Security Spring 2011, Vol. 35, No. 4, Pages 7-44.) AK
In this article, we question the logic … failed to retrench recovered their relative position.
Heg doesn’t solve war
Christopher Preble (director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute) August 2010 “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/Most in Washington still embraces … fly-over country pick up the tab.

US Heg causes terrorism – US presence in the Middle East and 9/11 proves
Layne 9 (Christopher, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, literary and national editor of the Atlantic, Review of International Studies (2009), 5/25/9, “America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for offshore balancing has arrived”, Cambridge Journals,)Terrorist organisations like Al-Qaeda …, staying in Iraq will exacerbate it.

Terrorists will acquire nuclear material- this would trigger an immediate reactionary response escalating into global nuclear war and the destruction of human civilization.
Morgan 9 (Dennis Ray, Hankuk U of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus South Korea, Futures, December, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Volume 41, Issue 10, pp 683-693)In a remarkable website on nuclear war, … accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons.
===2NC heg bad=== 



U.S. withdrawal and a concurrent shift to multipolarity would prevent American involvement in major power wars.


Christopher Layne (Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University) 2006 “The Peace of Illusions” p 170



By devolving full responsibility … definition of U.S. interests.







*Historically, declining power don`t go to war – when they do, wars aren’t global


MacDonald and Parent 11 (Paul, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, and Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment”. International Security Spring 2011, Vol. 35, No. 4, Pages 7-44.) AK



Based on our universe of cases, … with the benefit of hindsight.









Primacy is a collision course with China – conflict inevitable



Layne 7 Christopher Layne, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2007 ["The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 73-74 ]



To be sure, the United States … is virtually certain.





Leads to extinction

Ching, 2k

Ching Cheong, senior journalist at The Straits Times and author of two books on Taiwan, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis Nexis.

THE high-intensity scenario postulates … sovereignty above everything else.



Heg leads to a Sino-Russia Alliance that culminates in superpower nuclear conflict

Roberts 07 Economist and Former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Paul Craig, “US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance”, http://www.antiwar.com/roberts/?articleid=11422)

This week the Russian and Chinese militaries … the world has seen since Hitler's.

==Kritiks== 
===Confessions K=== 
*we read this against a narrative aff
Science fiction conflates fantasy with fact—this uniquely undermines civic engagement and destroys scientific eduction
Kluger 7/11/11 - senior writer for TIME (Jeffery, “ Scientific Illiteracy After the Shuttle: Are America's Smartest Days Behind Her?” http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2082213,00.html)
The problem is, the land of the …U.S. is going to keep its edge.


Science is necessary for freedom and technological innovation
Taggart 10 PhD and philosophical counselor, Andrew “With what authority does a public philosopher speak?” http://www.butterfliesandwheels.org/2010/with-what-authority-does-a-public-philosopher-speak/
Fourth, neither can he from scientific sources.


They can’t meet falsifiable review- only a scientific approach produces the best epistemology and can avert extinction
Coyne, 06 – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)
Supernatural forces and …Crews’s plea for empiricism.

===Sci Fi Methods K=== 
*we rea this against a critical aliens aff
Science fiction conflates fantasy with fact—this uniquely undermines civic engagement and destroys scientific eduction
Kluger 7/11/11 - senior writer for TIME (Jeffery, “ Scientific Illiteracy After the Shuttle: Are America's Smartest Days Behind Her?” http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2082213,00.html)
The problem is, the land of the …U.S. is going to keep its edge.


Science is necessary for freedom and technological innovation
Taggart 10 PhD and philosophical counselor, Andrew “With what authority does a public philosopher speak?” http://www.butterfliesandwheels.org/2010/with-what-authority-does-a-public-philosopher-speak/
Fourth, neither can he from scientific sources.


They can’t meet falsifiable review- only a scientific approach produces the best epistemology and can avert extinction
Coyne, 06 – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)
Supernatural forces and …Crews’s plea for empiricism.

===Sci Fi Cap K=== 
*we read this against a critical aliens aff

Science fiction is a commodity – it’s packaged and manipulated by profit-driven publishers
Elkins and Suvin 1979 – former editor of Science Fiction Studies AND Professor Emeritus at McGill University (November, Charles and Darko, “ Preliminary Reflections on Teaching Science Fiction Critically ” Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 6, No. 3, JSTOR)
SF shares with other …of an anti-rational kind (see Roland Barthes' Mythologies).


Cap causes endless genocide and spurs violent resistance that kills millions in the name of resource expansion.
Jalata 11 – Professor of Sociology & Global Studies
(Asafa, January 24th 2011, “Terrorism from Above and Below in the Age of Globalization”, p.1-4) NAR

As capitalism developed… groups affected by it.

Alt – vote negative to reject the flawed capitalist nature of the affirmative.

The alternative is the only way out – we need to analyze the flaws in the system to find the preconditions for movements away from capitalism and its inevitable collapse – this is key to develop a real political strategy
Carroll 10 – *founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria
(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198, dml)

In the most …subalterns to their subordination (De Leon, Desai and Tuğal 2009: 216; Joseph 2002).

===Exceptionalism K=== 



The affirmative’s unilateral approach to space reifies exceptionalism –

Billings 7 – Professor @ GWU

Linda, “Societal Impact of Space Flight,” p. 483-484

The ideas of frontier pioneering, continual …is the act of arguing in favor of a cause, idea, or policy.



The impact is extinction

Smith 3 – Professor of Political Science @ Penn

Rogers, Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania and PhD Harvard University, “Stories Of Peoplehood, The Politics and Morals of Political Membership”, p. 166-169

It is certainly important to oppose …William Connolly, and Jurgen Habermas all envision.



The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s nationalistic representations – this is a pre-requisite

Billings 6 – Professor @ GWU in Media and Public Affiars

Linda, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” 2-3-2006,http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf

Facing an opportunity to…, why we should be going into space.





The role of the ballot is to investigate methodology before policy recommendations – rejecting nationalism creates an accurate research agenda that advances shared human interest



Beck and Szaider 6 – Professor of Sociology, Professor @ Tel Aviv



Ulrich, Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, Natan, Professor at The Academic College of Tel Aviv Yaffo “Unpacking cosmopolitanism for the social sciences: a research agenda” The British Journal of Sociology, 5.1, http://www.promusica.se/Library/Electronic%20texts/Beck_Sznaider2006.pdf


Methodological nationalism takes the following ….want to avoid becoming a museum of antiquated ideas.

==ORS case turns== 
===information overload(1NC)=== 

Increased information causes commanders to be indefinite about decision making- leads to paralysis and turns heg
Cotton 5- Lieutenant Colonel Anthony J. Cotton, United States Air Force, Dr. William G. Pierce Project Adviser, Usawc Strategy Research Project Information Technology – Information Overload for Strategic Leaders, 18 March 2005 http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA431929
Information overload has flooded …it may not be desirable.

===overconfidence turn (1NC)=== 
aff’s Overconfidence undermines rational checks on conflict
Johnson and Tierney 11 – *PhD in Evolutionary Biology and Political Science, Reader @ Edinburgh in Scotland, **Professor of Political Science @ Swarthmore
Dominic, Dominic, “The Rubicon Theory of War: How the Path to Conflict Reaches the Point of No Return,” International Security, 36.1, Muse
When people perceive …no obvious rational explanation.

==Private contracts aff case turns== 
===1NC debris/weaponization=== 
Commercial development of space leads to militarization
Salin 2001 (Patrick A, Professor at the Institute of Air and Space Law McGill University, Montreal, Canada, “Privatization and militarization in the space business environment,” Space Policy 17 (2001) 19}26 Online)
We have tried to underline the …attention than they are now [48].

Turns case—weaponization makes the aff impossible
Mitchell et al, 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)
A buildup of space weapons… military conflict ever seen.

Space privatization leads to a debris cloud blocking all access to space
Gagnon 4 (Bruce Gagnon is the coordinator for Global Network Against Weapons & Nuclear Power in Space, Impact Press, Fall, http://www.impactpress.com/articles/augsep04/space8904.html)
The news brings us …space before it is too late.

===block cards weaponization=== 
Limited warfare and escalation control don’t apply in space
Krepon, 3 – president of the Henry Stimson Center (Michael, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)

The inherent escalatory potential …than in dominance and compellance.

Weaponization turns US-Russia war
NYT 2007 (NY Times Europe, “Russia issues warning on space-based weapons” 2007, http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/27/world/europe/27iht-russia.4.7662417.html)

MOSCOW — The chief of Russia's …effort to deafen and blind it."
Space arms race leads to accidental wars/ runaway prolif
Ross 09 - Reporter for the Chicago Daily News [Sherwood Ross, “Space Race Increasing Risk of Nuclear War,” Atlantic Free Press, Saturday, 04 April 2009 08:21, pg. http://www.atlanticfreepress.com/news/1/8948-space-race-increasing-risk-of-nuclear-war.html//edlee]
An unchecked race to militarize space… of nuclear war,” he said.

Space militarization kills investment, crucial to development and the economy.
Kaufman 8
[Vice-chair of economists for peace and security, Director of Bethseda Research Institute, former counsel of the Join Economic Committee of the US Congress, “Space, Security, and the Economy,” September 2008]
http://www.epsusa.org/publications/papers/spacesecurity.pdf
There has been rapid growth …private commercial space projects.

==Topicality== 
===T/inherency v. GDS=== 
A. Interpretation - Exploration is space science and development is the creation of commercial market activities
Hsu and Cox, 9 - *Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702)


A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion
Alexander, 8 (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)
On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, ...and indicates Congress's priorities.

Increase
Increase means create
WORDS AND PHRASES, 2007 CUMULATIVE SUPPLEMENTARY PAMPHLET, Vol. 20A, 07, 76
Increase: Salary change of from zero to $12,000 and $1,200 annually for mayor and councilmen respectively was an “increase” in salary and not merely the fixing of salary. King v. Herron, 243 S.E.2d36, 241 Ga. 5.

and air vehicles.


Violation – the plan is not a new commercial endeavor
Inside the Army 2009
“RAYTHEON WINS DARPA DEAL FOR INTEROPERABLE COMM SYSTEM 'MAINGATE'” Lexis July 6, 2009
The new DARPA contract ... many as 20 mobile ground

Voting Issue
Limits – our interpretation limits out dozens of small military affirmatives – SSA, ASATS, BMD and SATCOM contract affs

Ground – failure to defend creation of a program makes it impossible to generate unique offense, presumption means you vote negative


==="Its" v. private contracts aff=== 
A. Interpretation

“Its” is possessive.
English Grammar 5 (Glossary of English Grammar Terms, http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)
Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the possessive pronouns used to substitute a noun and to show possession or ownership. EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

B. Violation- the plan increases the ability of private companies to develop space- that’s distinct from federally owned projects

C. It’s a voting issue-

1. Limits—allowing private companies explodes the topic- infinite possibilities for extension of legal frameworks into space means that we would need to prep out case negs to each different legal chance-

2. Ground—All core DA links are based off direct increases in exploration and development.


3. The aff is FX T—it doesn’t fiat anything going into space: their advantages are based off of effects that the plan would have, not the action of the plan itself.

==Negative Strategies== 
===Greenhill Negative Strategies=== 

Round 1: Winston Churchill BaLa—asteroid mining aff

1NC: SKFTA, exceptionalism K, launches DA (debris with econ impact), privatization CP (25 year tax exemption)
2NR: debris DA



Round 3: Whitney Young NR—SSA

1NC: SKFTA, T commercial, China DA, exceptionalism K, case offense (space mil turn, information overload turn, debris turn)
2NR: exceptionalism K



Round 5: Pace KS--SSA

1NC: SKFTA, T commercial, China DA, privatization CP (25 year tax exemption), exceptionalism K, case offense (overconfidence turn, information overload turn)
2NR: China DA


Octos: Edina SS—asteroids

1NC: SKFTA, tax exemption CP, exceptionalism K
2NR: exceptionalism K


===St. Mark's Negative Strategies=== 
Round 1: Pine Crest MR-- ORS

1NC: infrastructure politics, T mesosphere/permanence, China DA, exceptionalism K, case offense (space mil turn, information overload turn, debris turn, cyber terror turn)
2NR: cyber terror

Round 3: Damien MM—microsatellites

1NC: infrastructure politics, T commercial, China DA, exceptionalism K, case offense (space mil turn, information overload turn, debris turn, cyber terror turn)
2NR: exceptionalism K

Round 5: Woodward SS-- JWST

1NC: infrastructure politics, T commercial/staffed,exceptionalism K,visa CP, heg bad
2NR:politics

Octos: Iowa City West DH-- DoD SSP

1NC: SBMD bad, infrastructure politics,China DA,exceptionalism K,intereference DA
2NR: politics

===Umich=== 

Round 1: Dowling Catholic-- ORS

1NC: pay roll tax cuts,F35 DA, T mesosphere/permanence, China DA, cyberwar turn
2NR: F35 DA

Round 3: Pace ES-- ORS

1NC:pay roll tax cuts,F35 DA, T mesosphere/permanence, exceptionalism K, cyberwar turn
2NR:cyberwar turn

Round 5: Maine East-- critical commons aff

1NC: neo lib good, cap good, framework, politics,ilaw bad (democracy, environment)
2NR: ilaw bad and framework

Round 7: Westminster PP-- asteroids

1NC: politics, exceptionalism K, NASA trade off,Congress CP
2NR: politics

Octos:GBS HJ-- climate monitoring

1NC: politics,Japan SSP DA,stratosphere CP, T commercial/human
2NR: Japan SSP DA

===Blake=== 
Round 1 Appleton East: incentives to private companies
1NC:"Its" violation, debris turn, weaponization turn, pay roll tax cuts, elections CP,exceptionalism K,heg bad
2NR: K

Round 3 Washburn: SSP
1NC: pay roll tax cuts, interference DA,exceptionalism K, Japan do the plan + Japan soft power net benefit
2NR: growth good (2AC dedeved politics), Japan soft power DA

Round 5 GBS WS: solar sails
1NC: Jackson Vanik (repeal good), Japan soft power DA, DSCVR CP, exceptionalism K
2NR: politics, CP

===Harvard RR=== 
ROUND 2 GBS HJ: ExoMars
1NC: Kepler, PTC,VISAs CP, SSP development DA,exceptionalism K
2NR: SSP development DA

ROUND 4 Greenhill SU: Space Guard
1NC: space guard CP, PTC w/ Iran impact, Air Force integration DA, China space DA
2NR: CP + politics

ROUND 6 GDS BH: delay tolerant networking
1NC: Congress CP, GEO slots, T/inherency, advantage CP ,F35 trade off, China space DA
2NR: F35 DA and advantage CP

===Harvard=== 
ROUND 1 Mountainbrook MS: SSP
1NC: cybersecurity ptx, aerospace CP, exceptionalism K,clean tech DA, launches DA (ozone + debris), interference DA (asteroid impact)
2NR: clean tech DA

ROUND 3 Greenhill BR: space guard
1NC: space guard CP, air force integration,cybersecurity,exceptionalism
2NR: space guard CP + ptx

ROUND 5 Thomas Jefferson: climate denial/race aff
1NC: FW,social justice trade off, cap K, Japan do the plan,CP to have the USFG publicly denounce climate skeptics, GEO slots DA
2NR: FW, social justice DA,CP