[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Blake 1AC== 
===Deterrence Advantage=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US is constructing hundreds of BMD systems domestically and abroad, but all will be circumvented without a Space Based anchor</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mooney, 08</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kevin, staff writer for CNS News. “Space-Based Missile Defense Needed to Counter Global Threats, Experts Say” http://www.cnsnews.com/public/Content/Article.aspx?rsrcid=36145)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Only a space-based missile... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">over the long term.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And mutually assured destruction is failing now because of new emerging threats – SMD “brilliant pebbles” will protect US interests at home and abroad</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">May 7/7</span>__** (Clifford D. May is the President of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. He also is the chairman of the policy committee of the Committee on the Present Danger (CPD), an international, non-partisan organization based in Washington D.C. A veteran news reporter, foreign correspondent and editor (at The New York Times and other publications), he has covered stories in more than two dozen countries, In 2006 he was appointed an advisor to the Iraq Study Group (Baker-Hamilton Commission) of the United States Institute of Peace, “MAD not a 21st century answer”)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">On June 28, Iran's rulers ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">the definition of de-militarizing space?</span>__


**The scenario is prolif:**

**Asymmetric proliferation is happening in North Korea, Syria, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia; the missiles will be used. Space based BMD is critical to deterring missile use from them**

**Pfaltzgraff et al 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Twenty-first century threats... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">described in greater detail below.</span>__

**Syria will attack Israel --- tensions are high**

**NYT, 10** (“Israeli Foreign Minister Adds Heat to Exchanges With Syria”, Lexis)
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Israel's blunt-talking ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">President George W. Bush.</span>

**Syrian missile use causes nuclear war**

**Joshi, 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Post-Doctoral Fellow @ the Center for Non-Proliferation (Joshi, “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA, Vol XXII, No 12. 2000, EBSCO)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A common argument is that the ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">movement and civilian morale.</span>


**North Korea will use their nukes - defector’s statements prove - no way to get them to give them up**

**Smith 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles, Writer @ Newsmax, Citing Park Gap Dong, Former Chief of European Propaganda in North Korea, “ Attack North Korea Before It's Too Late, Key Defector Warns,” July 10, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://archive.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2003/7/10/170429.shtml]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The call for U.S. military action ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">inspectors</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">," said Park. </span>


**North Korean nuclear use destroys the environment and economy - risks extinction**


**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – ***Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The international community... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">consideration from the international community.</span>**

Saudi prolif spills over and escalates rapidly, causes global nuclear war 
Edelman et al. 11 ***ERIC S. EDELMAN is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9 **ANDREW F. KREPINEVICH is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. ***EVAN BRADEN MONTGOMERY is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments [<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67162/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/the-dangers-of-a-nuclear-iran]]</span>, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran” January-February 2011]**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">There is, however, ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">with unpredictable consequences.</span>__**

Expanded Pakistani nuclear arsenal sparks indo-pak war
Kerr 7-20 – **Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service CRS), Analyst, International Security Program, Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) Former Manager, Defense Program, Lexington Institute Former Writer, Center for Security Strategies and Operations, Anteon Corporation Education: MA, International Relations, University of South Carolina at Columbia, (Paul, July 20th, “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues”, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34248.pdf)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal probably ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">instability and governance problems.</span>**

Indo-Pak war causes extinction

Robock and Toon 10 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado, received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine –http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf )</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">By deploying</span>__ __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">modern... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">to kill robust species.</span>__

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Plan:</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">**The United States Federal Government should deploy the 'Brilliant Pebbles' application of space missile defense in low earth orbit.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;"> </span>
===<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">**Solvency:**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Brilliant Pebbles solve deterrence via boost phase interception – they’re technically feasible, cost-effective, and small enough to prevent counterforce balancing**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pfaltzgraf and Van Cleave, 07 </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraf, Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University and President Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis and Dr. William R. Van Cleave, Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University. Independent Working Group, “Missile Defense, The Space Relationship, and the 21st Century”, 2007, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf]]) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A space-based KEI ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">when inflated to 2005 dollars.</span>__

**Just putting it up deters, doesn’t matter if it works**

**Frederick 8** *Lorinda A. Frederick is Major Lorinda A. Frederick was commissioned through the Reserve Officer Training Corps, Michigan State University in 1993. She is a Senior Space and Missiles Operator with operational tours in Minuteman III Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM) and Missile Warning and Space Surveillance. She was a Crew Commander, Instructor, and Flight Commander in both mission areas. Major Frederick then served in Headquarters Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC) in Space and Missile Officer Assignments and ICBM Requirements. While assigned to HQ AFSPC, Major Frederick deployed to the Central Command Area of Operations where she served in the Space Cell of the Combat Operations Division, Combined Air Operations Center. She subsequently transitioned to United States Strategic Command where she was an exercise planning officer. Major Frederick has a bachelor’s degree in Accounting from Michigan State University, a master’s degree in Business Administration from Regis University, and a master’s degree in Military Arts and Sciences from USAF Air Command and Staff College. Major Frederick is currently a graduate student at the USAF School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. **Approved by Lieutenant Colonel John H. Davis and Professor Dennis M. Drew [“Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense” June 2008, Graduate Thesis, PDF]
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Credible capabilities and... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">the willingness to use SBMD.</span>

Brilliant pebbles is the most practical solution- it’s feasible and limits international backlash

Denny 10 **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Bart Denny, April 29 2010, has an Associate's Degree in Nuclear Technology, a Bachelor's Degree in Economics and Political Science, and a Master of Science in Space Studies, and Master of Arts in National Security Studies, and a retired naval officer “Time to revisit space-based missile defense”, http://www.bartdenny.com/time-for-space-based.html)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Reagan's Strategic Defense... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">that great day to arrive. </span>**

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">SMD allows for other aspects of missile defense to be more effective, creating an effective global missile defense system</span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pfaltzgraf and Van Cleave, 07 </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraf, Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University and President Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis and Dr. William R. Van Cleave, Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University. Independent Working Group, “Missile Defense, The Space Relationship, and the 21st Century”, 2007, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf|http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pd]]f)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The sequences of inquiry... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">them to act together. </span>__

<span class="Underline">No one will retaliate to SBMD, destruction of missiles breaks down enemies’ will to fight and destroys morale</span>

<span class="Underline">Dinerman 8 – **Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York office. He was an author of the textbook Space Science for Students and has been a part time consultant for the US Defense Department (Taylor, “Space-based missile defense and the psychology of warfare”, __http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1205/1/)**</span>
**<span class="Underline">Anyone who wants ...</span> and help shorten the conflict<span class="Underline">.</span>**



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>



<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;"> </span>








=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]