[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Talk to Callahan. A lot. Annoy him in fact. Gchat him constantly for cites at [[mailto:c.callahan45@gmail.com|c.callahan45@gmail.com]]
Also, ask him about the time he though Rosie was moving to the Dominican Republic for 27 months and would be leaving before Woodward.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
==Climate Monitoring== 
===Niles West=== 
====Plan Text==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase the amount of its deployed climate monitoring satellites. </span>**
====Warming==== 

**Contention One is Warming – It’s real and causes extinction**
**Morgan 09 –** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea (Dennis Ray, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect)</span>
As horrifying as....chances of survival?

**Its real and humans are causing it – emissions outweigh – action is key**
**Fitzpatrick et al 06** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Melanie Fitzpatrick (Earth and Space Sciences and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington and UCS consultant) prepared this summary with input from Brenda Ekwurzel (Union of Concerned Scientists) and reviews by Philip Mote (Climate Impacts Group at the University of Washington and Washington's state climatologist), Richard Gammon (Chemistry, Oceanography, and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington) and Peter Frumhoff (Union of Concerned Scientists), “Human Fingerprints,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/science_and_impacts/science/global-warming-human.html,)</span>
Earth's surface has...(among other solutions).

**Earth monitoring is key to international cooperation and provides the data to end uncertainty**
**Lewis et al 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, James A, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span class="st" style="font-size: 6pt;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer at Salary Data [“Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]]</span>
There has been...United States can take.

**Status quo efforts are obsolete – the plan obtains knowledge necessary for action**
**Lewis et al 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, James A, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer at Salary Data [“Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">] </span>
Until this year....at this time.

**Its key to climate leadership**
**Lewis et al 2010**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, James A, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer at Salary Data [“Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>
Climate change will...respects and admires.

**That leads to global solutions**
<span class="Underline">**Khosla 09 –** </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Ashok</span><span class="Underline">**,**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> IUCN President, International Union for Conservation of Nature, A new President for the United States: We have a dream, 1-29-09, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://cms.iucn.org/news_events/?uNewsID=2595]]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">A rejuvenated America....and transport systems.</span>

**And, lack of leadership means other countries will never jump on board**
**Shepard 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Don, Natural Resources/Water Resources University Laboratory Teacher and Former Financial Representative [“US Environmental Policy and Leadership,” May 22, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.brighthub.com/environment/science-environmental/articles/39623.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>
The Bush administration's...from our lawmakers.

**Now is key – we can’t risk crossing the tipping point to runaway warming**
**Harvey, 11.** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Faith Harvey is environment correspondent at the Guardian newspaper, where she covers all aspects of the environment, including climate change, environmental regulation and policy, pollution, resource use, waste, renewable energy, emissions trading, fishing and biodiversity. Before joining the Guardian, she spent 11 years at the Financial Times, where she also covered the environment. She has also written for National Geographic, the New Scientist, Scientific American and Encyclopedia Britannica. May 29, 2011. “Worst ever carbon emissions leave climate on the brink.” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/may/29/carbon-emissions-nuclearpower]])</span>
Greenhouse gas emissions....shrinking," warned Birol.

====Crisis Response==== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention Two is Crisis Response – Climate satellites are battered and outdated— data gaps destroy effectiveness</span>**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Bohan 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Suzanne Bohan, Washington Post writer, Sept 19, 2010, “A dim view for Earth emerges” Washington Post pg. A06</span>
The satellite, Landsat...institute in Washington.

====--Disease==== 
**Scenario One is Disease – It leads to extinction**
**GREGER 08 –** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States (Michael Greger, , Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
Senate Majority Leader...passing a graveyard.

**Diseases will spread now – absent the plan prevention measures will fail**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Ford et. al 11** – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">T</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">imothy E. Ford,, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA, Rita R. Colwell, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA Joan B. Rose, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA Stephen S. Morse, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA David J. Rogers, University, Oxford, UK and Terry L. Yates, and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (“Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">) </span>
Recent events illustrate....of virus transmission.

**Observation data allows us predict and contain the spread**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kalluri et al 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5.5pt;">Satya, PhD in Geography and assistant research scientist at the Department of Geography at the University of Maryland; Peter Gilruth, PhD in Forestry and Forest Product Techniques and has over 20 years of experience as an environmental scientist and project manager and strategist with the US Government and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) and currently in the private sector where he collaborates closely with the US space agency NASA; David Rogers, PhD in Geological and Geotechnical Engineering and Professor at Missouri University of Science and Technology; Martha Szczur, writer of several books on pathogens and health geographics [“Surveillance of Arthropod Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases Using Remote Sensing Techniques: A Review,” </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.plospathogens.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.ppat.0030116]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5.5pt;">] </span>
Epidemiologists are adopting...for further research.

**The impact is extinction – satellite technology is key**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">John 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> – Research analyst for the Space Foundation (Mariel, December, “Solutions From Space: Disease + Pandemic Early Warning”, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1700287138)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Millions of people...academia or government.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">--Disasters</span>==== 
**Scenario 2 is Disasters**
**They lead to extinction**
**SID-AHMED 05** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Mohamed, Al-Ahram Online, Jan 6-12, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The human species...demise of humankind.</span>


**Improvements in Earth science allows accurate disaster prediction which is key to more effective disaster response**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SSB 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> – Space Studies Board (National Academic Press, “Earth Science and Application from Space: Urgent Needs and Opportunities to Serve the Nation,” Earth Observations and Presidential Initiatives, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11281&page=13]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Progress in Earth...of Earth science.</span>


<span class="Underline">**Additionally the plan develops topographic data which radically improves disaster response** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Stolper et al 2004</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, Edward M. Stolper (chair) is William E. Leonhard Professor of Geology at the California Institute of Technology, Anny Cazenave is a senior scientist at the Centre National d’Etudes Spatiales and deputy director of the Laboratory for Space Studies in Geophysics and Oceanography at Toulouse University, Catherine G. Constable is a professor of geophysics at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, Francis A. Dahlen, Jr., is department chair and a professor of geosciences at Princeton University, William E. Dietrich is a professor of geomorphology at the University of California, Berkeley, Bradford H. Hager is Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Earth Sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Grant Heiken recently retired as a volcanologist in the Earth and Environmental Science Division at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL). Prior to joining LANL in 1975, he worked in NASA’s Lunar Receiving Laboratory during the Apollo and Skylab programs, R. Keith Raney is a principal professional staff scientist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (APL). Prior to joining the APL staff, he spent 18 years at the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing, where he was chief radar scientist and co-founder of RADARSAT, Canada’s first remote sensing satellite program, Frank M. Richter is Sewell Avery Distinguished Service Professor at the University of Chicago, Mousumi Roy is an assistant professor of geophysics at the University of New Mexico, Lianxing Wen is an assistant professor of geophysics at the State University of New York, Anne M. Linn is a senior program officer with the Board on Earth Sciences and Resources of the National Academies [“ Review of NASA's Solid-Earth Science Strategy,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog/11084.html] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The use of....the seafloor remotely.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No War</span>==== 
**Contention Three is War is not an impact**

**First, won’t happen**

**a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics**
**Deudney et al, 09,**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This bleak outlook...autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>


**b.) Trends Prove**
**Mueller 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, a professor of political science at Ohio State University, [John, Political Science Quarterly, “War Has Almost Ceased to Exist:</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">An Assessment”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tigger.uic.edu/%7Ebvaler/Mueller%20War%20Dead.pdf|http://tigger.uic.edu/~bvaler/Mueller%20War%20Dead.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>
THE PRESENT CONDITION...a substantial phenomenon.

**Second, it won’t escalate**
**Robinson 01**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command (Paul, March 22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
Let me then....and peaceful world.

**Third, No Extinction**
**Nyquist 99**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As I write...war is survivable.</span>

===St. Mark's SHD=== 
Same stuff.

===New Trier=== 


====New Warming Card==== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction outweighs all other risks – there is a moral obligation to prevent extinction, because the impact is literally infinite</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Schell, 01. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Jonathan, Former writer for New Yorker, excerpted by David Cheshier from //Fate of the Earth//, Rostrum, Jan)</span>
Here is how...to our species.

====Economy==== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Advantage Two is the Economy – Collapse leads to war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green and Schrage 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">–</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Michael J Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, Asia Times, 2009 http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>
Facing the worst...to close markets.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Independently, US collapse leads to nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Friedbeg and Schoenfeld 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, Ocbtober 21, 2008, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>
With the global....continued American leadership.

**First is Insurance Information – the plan provides data necessary effective risk management**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sabathier 08</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> – a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. (Vincent G. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">“EARTH OBSERVATION, RISK ASSESSMENT AND GLOBAL CHANGE: Implications for the Insurance and Aerospace Sectors” [[http://csis.org/event/earth-observation-risk-assessment-and-global-change-implications-insurance-and-aerospace-sector]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It is an...carbon management strategies. </span>


**Lack of the plan means insurance industry collapse is inevitable**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Faith et al. 08 – </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lyn Wigbels</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Vincent G. Sabathier</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ryan Faith</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">7,14 “Earth observations and global change”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Application: Catastrophes, Disasters...Earth observation data.</span>

**Data is key – failure to respond to climate change means the industry collapses along with the economy**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mils 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> – Ph.D. University of California U.S. Department of Energy Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Environmental Energy Technologies Division Energy Analysis Department (Evan, “A Global Review of Insurance Industry Responses to Climate Change”</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">http://evanmills.lbl.gov/pubs/pdf/gpp200914a.pdf</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A healthy and...for economic growth.</span>


**And insurance industry is key to the economy**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kugler and Ofoghi 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> – More quailed than your authors….CIGI Chair in International Public Policy & Professor (Economics) at the Wilfrid Laurier School of Economics, holds a Research Fellowship at the Growth Lab of the Center for International Development in Harvard University. He has taught at Harvard, Los Andes, Southampton, and Stanford Universities. Kugler has been awarded research grants by the NSF and the Tinker Foundation in the US as well as DfID and the ESRC in the UK. He has been adviser to the Central Bank of Colombia, the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank, and earned a PhD in economics from UC Berkeley, after being an undergrad at the LSE and *A</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">ssistant Professor ECO College of Insurance, Ph.D. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Maurice and Reza, July,“Does Insurance Promote Economic Growth? Evidence from the UK” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">http://repec.org/mmfc05/paper8.pdf</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the first...supply-leading pattern.</span>


**And that’s reverse causal, lack of insurance industry means economic collapse is inevitable**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bofah 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">* – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">founder of Onyx investments, holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Management from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">Kenan-Flagler Business School</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">(Kofi, Date is speculative, date last cited is 2010, “The Role of Insurance to Economy Development” </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.onyxinvestments.com/wp/the-insurance-industry-and-economic-development/insurance/]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> *also search for ehow) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Insurance manages risk....adequate insurance coverage.</span>


**Second is the energy industry, - the plan is key**
**Wigbels et al. 08 –** <span style="color: black; font-size: 6.5pt;">Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. Ryan Faith is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. Lyn Wigbels is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program. </span><span style="font-size: 6.5pt;">(7,14 “Earth observations and global change”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Application: Economic Security...and other resources.</span>


**Energy industry is key to the global economy**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SAJ 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> –citing someone qualified: Abdullatif A. Al-Othman, graduate of KFUPM with a B.A. in civil engineering, earned his master's degree in business administration from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as a Sloan Fellow in 1998. (October 28, Saudi Americo Jobs, “Al-Othman Eyes Energy's Role in Global Economy” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">http://www.jobsataramco.eu/115/alothman-eyes-energys-role-in-global-economy.htm</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Al-Othman was...construction and real estate.</span>


**Third is Investment information, satellite information fuels the global economy – investor confidence**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Faith et al. 08 – </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lyn Wigbels</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Vincent G. Sabathier</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ryan Faith</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">(7,14 “Earth observations and global change”) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Earth observations provide...global public investment.</span>


**Also its to U.s. economy – weather adaption**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Faith et al. 08 – </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lyn Wigbels</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Vincent G. Sabathier</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ryan Faith</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;"> is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">(7,14 “Earth observations and global change”) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Overview: Role of...hard to estimate. </span>

===University of Michigan=== 
Warming and either crisis response or economy, depending on the opponent.

====Warming card==== 
We took out the Schell card and put this one in.

**Independently, positive feedbacks will raise sea levels, threaten food security, collapse states, and end civilization.**
**Brown,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S.,</span> **2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]</span>
In 2004, Stephen...these extreme stresses.
===Dowling=== 
Warming/Competitiveness

====Competitiveness==== 
**Contention Two is Hegemony – it solves war**

**First, it allows liberalization**
**Zhang and Shi 1/22**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> - 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>

Thus, the__global distribution__...of unrivalled US primacy


**And, Military dominance solves competition**

**Kagan 07 –** <span style="font-size: 8.66px;">senior associate, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, July, End of Dreams, Return of History, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html, )</span>



<span style="font-size: 8.66px;">T</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">his is a good thing, and it should…</span><span style="font-size: 8.66px;"> will provide an easier path.</span>





**Loss of earth monitoring capabilities will devastate competitiveness – plan is key to university education and overall scientific leadership**

**SSB 05**<span style="font-size: 8.66px;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Space Studies Board (National Academic Press, “Earth Science and Application from Space: Urgent Needs and Opportunities to Serve the Nation,” Earth Observations and Presidential Initiatives, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11281&page=13]]) Jacome</span>



<span style="font-size: 8px;">The current U.S. civilian Earth observing system…</span><span style="font-size: 8.66px;"> now and</span>__for generations to come.__



**The plan is key to university innovation – independently key to space competitiveness**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Killeen 05 </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">–Phd. Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, </span>[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]]<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">) Jacome </span>



<span style="font-size: 8.66px;">First, </span>__NASA plays a crucial role in…__<span style="font-size: 8px;">Earth’s atmosphere and its variations.</span>





**Status quo ensures abdication of NASA Science programs which are uniquely key to innovation in technology – that’s key to both economic and military leadership**

**NAST 08 –** <span style="font-size: 8.66px;">[“NASA’s Role in the 21</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">st</span><span style="font-size: 8.66px;"> Century,” Fall, </span>[[http://nastus.org/documents/NASARole.21stCentury.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8.66px;">] Jacome/HURWITZ</span>



<span style="font-size: 8.66px;">NASA has had a distinguished history…</span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> as</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">some degree of</span>__<span style="color: #000000;">national image value.</span>__





**Declines in competitiveness facilitate multipolarity -- results in global wars -- university innovation infrastructure is key.**

**Khalilzad 11 –** <span style="font-size: 8.66px;">United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">(</span><span style="font-size: 8.66px;">Zalmay, 2/8, “The Economy and National Security,” 2-8, </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.66px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.66px;">We face this domestic challenge while </span>__other… crisis that we face today__



**Reprioritizing Earth Science makes NASA an early investor – stimulates aerospace competitiveness**

**NAST 8**<span style="font-size: 8px;">[“NASA’s Role in the 21st Century,” Fall, [[http://nastus.org/documents/NASARole.21stCentury.pdf]]] HURWITZ</span>



<span style="font-size: 8px;">It is our contention that </span>__the nation…__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> grand challenges introduced above of: </span>



**Aerospace is key to hegemony**

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Walker et al, 02 -</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> Chair of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry </span>Commissioners (Robert, Final Report of the Commission on<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> the Futureof the United States Aerospace </span>Industry Commissioners, November,<span style="color: #0000ff;">[[@http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf|http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf ]]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Aerospace will be</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">at</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the…</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> towards rebuilding the industry. 45 </span>

===Blake=== 
Warming/heg

====New Competitiveness==== 

Added these two cards after Kagan on competitiveness

**Social science proves – the alternative is competition**
**Wohlforth 09**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">This is why such theories seem irrelevant to interactions…</span><span class="IntenseEmphasis1">tend to be zero sum</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">9</span>


**There’s no root cause of war – only deterrence works**
**Moore 04**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, pages 41-2.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">If major interstate war is predominantly a product…</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?</span>

===Golden Desert=== 
Warming and competitiveness


New Competitiveness Card
added this card on competitiveness

<span class="Underline">**That deterrence is sufficient – Empirics prove** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Drezner 05**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>

Also read a new plan text

====Plan Text==== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space-based climate monitoring capabilities.**

===Homewood-Flossmoor=== 
Warming, and either disease and disasters or soft power (below).

====Soft Power Advantage==== 

<span class="Underline">**Contention One is Soft Power – it prevents all conflict** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Nye 04** </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Joseph, former Asst Sec of Defense and Dean of JFK School of govt @ Harvard, May/June 2004, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/59888/joseph-s-nye-jr/the-decline-of-americas-soft-power]]) </span>
Skeptics of soft...with hard power.

**Soft power solves extinction**
**Nye 08**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – created the theory of “soft power,” distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard [March 7, 2008, Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Security and Smart Power,” [[http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351]]]</span>
Etzioni is correct...one for Iran.

**We solve – cooperation as a result of the plan boosts soft power**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Wigbels et al. 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Lyn, Senior Associate at CSIS, Ryan Faith, Project Manager at CSIS, Vincent Sabathier, Senior fellow at CSIS [“Earth Observations and Global Change, Why? Where are We? What Next?” July, CSIS] </span>
Global change presents...development of GEOSS.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It’s reverse casual – failure to take the lead compromises US credibility</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sabathier and Faith 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program. From 2004 to 2009, he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications; Ryan Faith, associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 31 July 2007, “Minding the Gaps: Keeping Exploration Alive,” Online: http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070731_space_commentary.pdf)</span>
Finally, the third....at great risk.

<span class="Underline">**Two internal links – first is Science –** </span>**Space-based Earth science is critical to NASA credibility**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dinnerman 09</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">– Taylor, writer for publications such as Ad Astra, The Wall Street Journal, and the American Spectator, former contributor to the Space Review and current writer for the Hudson Institute New York, part-time consultant for the US Defense Department, "NASA, politics, science, and skepticism", The Space Review, September 14, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1462/1]]</span>
For the moment...GPS occultation antenna.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">That solves soft power </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dinnerman 09 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">– Taylor, writer for publications such as Ad Astra, The Wall Street Journal, and the American Spectator, former contributor to the Space Review and current writer for the Hudson Institute New York, part-time consultant for the US Defense Department, " NASA and soft power, again", The Space Review, June 15, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1396/1</span>
As we embark....for a handout.

<span class="Underline">**Independently, increased collaboration on Earth science increases US science diplomacy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Parthemore and Rogers 11 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Christine, Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program and Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security, Will, Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security [“ BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” 8-1, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]]] </span>
The US government....resources and agencies.

<span class="Underline">**Science diplomacy prevents conflicts from intensifying**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Koppelman et al 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, Ben, research officer at the foreign policy center, Natalie Day, Senior Researcher at Demos and Project Manager for The Atlas of Ideas, dr Neil Davison, senior policy adviser (security & diplomacy) in the Science Policy Centre at the Royal Society, Dr Tracey Elliott, Head of International, The Royal Society, Dr James Wilsdon, Director of the Science Policy Centre at the Royal Society, Professor Anthony Cheetham FRS, Department of Materials Science, University of Cambridge, Professor Mohamed Hassan, President, Academy of Sciences for the Developing World, Dr Ragunath Mashelkar FRS, President, Global Research Alliance, Dr Jim McQuaid FREng, Former Chairman, Environmental Security Panel, NATO Science for Peace and Security Committee, Dr Vaughan Turekian, Director, Centre for Science Diplomacy, AAAS, USA [“New Frontiers in Science Diplomacy,” January, the royal society] </span>
Cooperation on the scientific...other government departments.

<span class="Underline">**The Second internal link is USAID –** </span>**Plan is key to effective USAID response**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Parthemore and Rogers 11 -</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), where she directs the Natural Security Program and the Natural Security Blog, djunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security, B.A. from The Ohio State University and an M.A. from Georgetown University's Security Studies Program, and * Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security, B.A. in Political Science-International Relations from the University of California (Christine and Will, June “Blinded: The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences on National Security” [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]]) </span>
USAID relies on...to greater instability.

**Effective USAID prevents failed states**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jones 11</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> – served as a U.S. Navy flight surgeon with HMM-364, a Casualty Evacuation Squadron in Habbiniyah, Iraq. He is a candidate for a master of public affairs at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. (Kermit,“The Security Dividend: What the United States Can Obtain from Investing More in International Health Care Capacity”) </span>
Shortly after September 11th...communities may thrive.

**State collapse causes loose nukes and nuclear war**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Transnational Institute 2007</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¸ A report prepared by: The African Studies Centre, Leiden, The Transnational Institute, Amsterdam, The Peace Studies Group (CES, University of Coimbra), and The Peace Research Center- CIP/FUHEM, Madrid [“Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” April] </span>
In the malign...their national security

===ICTA .=== 
Warming and Soft power - we only read it Round 2

====Soft Power==== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Heg solves every scenario for nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 07 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">senior associate, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, July, End of Dreams, Return of History, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html, )</span>

Added ^ after the Jervis card


===2AC - Case=== 
**All of their defense is wrong—pandemics could wipe out humanity**
**LEDERBERG 92**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joshua, Nobel Prize winner in Medicine, In Time of Plague: The History and Social Consequences of Lethal Epidemic Disease, Google Books)</span>
As crowded as...it can happen.

===2AC - Disads=== 

====SKFTA==== 

**<span style="background-color: white;">Non-unique – new political roadblocks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AFP 9/23</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (23, “US free trade deals hit new political roadblock”, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[@http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iT_WTzuLhk0B05jVcp45Twh8f4oA?docId=CNG.156d3cefd419e60ff44c454055dd53e3.21]]</span>
WASHINGTON - The White...a second term.

**Winners win – wins generate more capital**
**LA, 1-26**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Left in Alabama, Newstext, “On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win” 2011, lexis)</span>
Right off the...President would, then."

**<span class="Underline">No link – normal means is internal budget reallocation – we don’t go through congress</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lewis et al 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">James A, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span class="st" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer at Salary Data [“Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]] </span>
Climate change poses...put in orbit.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Climate satellites key to NASA credibility—solves __political backlash__ </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">--</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Taylor, writer for publications such as Ad Astra, The Wall Street Journal, and the American Spectator, former contributor to the Space Review and current writer for the Hudson Institute New York, part-time consultant for the US Defense Department, "NASA, politics, science, and skepticism", The Space Review, September 14, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1462/1]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For the moment...GPS occultation antenna. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Winners Win for Obama</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Singer 9</span>**- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan Singer, senior writer and editor for MyDD and has had numerous interviews with important politicians such as John Kerry, Barack Obama, John Edwards, and Tom Vilsack and has been quoted or cited by Newsweek, The New York Times, USA Today, The Politico, and others, 3 March 2009 “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital,” Online: http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">From the latest...war in Iraq.</span>


**No risk of Korean war**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edwards 10</span>** (Michael, Reporter – ABC News, “Full-scale War on Korean Peninsula 'Unlikely'”, ABC News, 11-25, http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/11/24/3075727.htm)
Experts say full-scale...China to intervene.

**US-South Korea relations resilient.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ireland 9 </span>**(Corydon, Harvard News Office, 9/14, http://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2009/09/firm-allies-past-and-present/#)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In a conversation...presence, she said.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Weaponization</span>==== 


**Plan revitalizes space cooperation**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sabathier and Faith 7</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">- Vincent Sabatheir, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program. From 2004 to 2009, he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications; Ryan Faith, associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 31 July 2007, “Minding the Gaps: Keeping Exploration Alive,” Online: [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070731_space_commentary.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finally, the third...at great risk.</span>

<span class="underline0">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">3. The link is non-unique</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a) </span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">X-37B</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Planas, 12. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(R. “US Spying on Chinese Spacelab Tiangong-1: report” The New York Daily News, 1/6/12)</span>
Whatever the American...and military purposes.

<span class="Underline">**b)** </span>**BMD triggers perception**
**Zhang 7** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[*Hui Zhang is a Senior Research Associate at the Project on Managing the Atom in the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. Hui Zhang is leading a research initiative on China's nuclear policies for the Project on Managing the Atom in the Kennedy School of Government. His researches include verification techniques of nuclear arms control, the control of fissile material, nuclear terrorism, China's nuclear policy, nuclear safeguards and non-proliferation, policy of nuclear fuel cycle and reprocessing. Dr. Zhang is the author of several technical reports and book chapters, and dozens of articles in academic journals and the print media including Science and Global Security, Arms Control Today, Bulletin of Atomic Scientist, Disarmament Diplomacy, Disarmament Forum, the Non-proliferation Review, Washington Quarterly, //Journal of Nuclear Materials Management// , INESAP, and China Security. Dr. Zhang gives many oral presentations and talks in international conferences and organizations [</span>__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.amacad.org/hui3.pdf</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “Chinese Perspectives on Space Weapons” January 19th]</span>
Missile defense is....toward space weaponization.

<span class="Underline">**4. Space weaponization is inevitable**</span>
**<span style="background-color: white;">Kramnik 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">-RIA Novotsi (think tank) military commentator, military commentator for the Russian News Service [Ilya, Space War, “Possible Space Wars in the Near Future,” January 18, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Possible_Space_Wars_In_The_Near_Future_999.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">The US media....military space systems. </span>

==AIS== 
===ICTA - Round 3=== 
====Plantext==== 
**The United States federal government should deploy Space-Automatic Identification System satellites integrated with Synthetic Aperture Radar Imaging.**

====Heg==== 

**Unipolarity prevents great power war**
**Zhang and Shi 1/22**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)</span>
This does not....unrivalled US primacy.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hegemony prevents escalation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">**Kagan 7** Robert</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kagan (</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund)</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2007 “</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136</span>
The jostling for....back in again.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">US sea command enables it to maintain hegemony – key enabler for ground and air forward deployed presence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Posen 3 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(BARRY R. POSEN, is Ford International Professor of Political Science at MIT, Director of the MIT Security Studies Program (http://web.mit.edu/ssp/), and serves on the Executive Committee of Seminar XXI (http://semxxi.mit.edu/). He has written two books, Inadvertent Escalation: Conventional War and Nuclear Risks and The Sources of Military Doctrine. The latter won two awards: The American Political Science Association's Woodrow Wilson Foundation Book Award, and Ohio State University's Edward J. Furniss Jr. Book Award. He is also the author of numerous articles, including "The Case for Restraint," The American Interest, (November/December 2007) and "Command of the Commons: The Military Foundation of U.S. Hegemony," International Security, (Summer, 2003.) He has been a Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow; Rockefeller Foundation International Affairs Fellow; Guest Scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies; Woodrow Wilson Center Fellow; Smithsonian Institution; Transatlantic Fellow of the German Marshall Fund of the United States, and most recently Visiting Fellow at the John Sloan Dickey Center at Dartmouth College, “COMMAND OF THE COMMONS, THE MILITARY FOUNDATIONS OF U.S. HEGEMONY”, Summer 2003, PDF, GANGEEZY) </span>
The US military...and informal empire.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Independently, naval readiness solves multiple scenarios for war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cropsey 10 –</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> is a Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute. Previously, he served as Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy during both the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations. (Seth, September 1, “Ebb Tide” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=7235]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
Only one statement...invitation to calamity.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Throwing funding at our military is the problem – lack of an acquisition strategy makes our military ineffective</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cappel 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (John, writer for American Foreign Policy: Place for Princeton Student Editorials, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://afpprinceton.com/2011/04/america%e2%80%99s-vanishing-military-how-acquisition-failures-threaten-u-s-military-might/|America’s Vanishing Military: How Acquisition Failures Threaten U.S. Military Might]]</span>”, 29 April 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://afpprinceton.com/author/jcappel/]]</span>) GANGEEZY</span>
In the midst...is currently losing.

====Economy==== 

Collapse leads to war
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Green and Schrage 09 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">–</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Michael J Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, Asia Times, 2009 http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>
Facing the worst....to close markets.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Physical deployment of the Coast Guard to monitor threats trades off with port security </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Krause 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Mike, is a veteran of the Coast Guard, and participated in numerous joint-agency drug patrols in the Caribbean Sea. He directs the Justice Policy Initiative at the Independence Institute, “Drug War Trumps Port Security,” Independence Institute,) GANGEEZY</span>
The top objective...than ever before.

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The attack will take place on our ports – nuclear terrorism is possible and likely </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Konkel 05 </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe, Google Scholar, PDF, GANGEEZY) </span>
A fundamental factor...much greater threat.

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Port attack causes millions to die and collapses the global economy by immediately disrupting trade flow</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Konkel 05 </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe, Google Scholar, PDF)</span>
An act of...U.S. in 2003.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">International trade would collapse within three weeks-trade embargos would prevent 90% of freight to move</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Flynn 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen E., Natl Sec Studies, Fellow at Council on Foreign Relations, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, 3/20/03, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]], GANGEEZY)</span></span>
A year later....up international trade.

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 14px;">Arctic war </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Status quo arctic monitoring fails – causes conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Parthemore and Rogers ‘11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – *Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security,http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">The emerging gaps...to greater instability. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Absent up-to-date space-based systems, arctic instability is inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> IOC 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission for the United Nations, 2010, “Why Monitor the Arctic Ocean?”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0018/001898/189843e.pdf]]</span>)</span>
The Arctic is...ensure sustained monitoring.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Specifically, Russian icebreaker attempts are inevitable which causes Arctic instability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cohen and Altman 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ariel, Ph.D, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, Anton Altman, Research Volunteer at Heritage Foundation, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]]</span>, Heritage Foundation) GANGEEZY</span>
The Arctic is...Arctic Ocean bed.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Arctic instability causes US-Russia nuclear war-it is the most likely scenario</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Staples 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, 2009, p. 5-6, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]]</span>)</span>
The fact is...of nuclear weapons.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The only existential risk</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bostrum 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, professor of philosophy - Oxford University, March, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards, Journal of Evolution and Technology, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>A much greater existential</span>
A much greater...the 21st century.

====Solvency==== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The plan is the only way to reinvigorate maritime domain awareness which is crucial to sea command</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Allan, 2k11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (John W. Allan, VP Global Sales & Marketing @ Exact Earth, “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security” 3/23, GANGEEZY)</span>
It's all about...maritime surveillance capability.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The plan provides data to effectively monitor small boat terrorism and improve port security</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Singh 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jaswinder, Captain, Navy, B.S., Indore University, M.S., Madras University, “COUNTERING SMALL BOAT TERRORISM IN TERRITORIAL SEA”, December 2010, Google Scholar, GANGEEZY) </span>
In today's information....in these waters.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The plan solves status quo failures in the arctic – locks in US dominance in monitoring</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NRC 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council, This Includes: Polar Research Board (PRB), Marine Board (MB), Earth and Life Studies (DELS), Transportation Research Board (TRB), “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, The National Academic Press, pg. 48-50)</span>
In the role...satellites are vulnerable.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The plan means we can track every vessel on the planet</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Singh 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jaswinder, Captain, Navy, B.S., Indore University, M.S., Madras University, “COUNTERING SMALL BOAT TERRORISM IN TERRITORIAL SEA”, December 2010, Google Scholar) **GANGEEZY**</span>
AIS signals can....provide near-real MST.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Only the plan solves – AIS tech works but needs to be integrated with SAR </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Alsaedi, et. al., 10. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph Bongi, Felisa Fernandez, Blake Picolo, Catherine Strez, Michael Trent, The Center for Secure and Resilient Maritime Commerce, Stevens Institute of Technology. July 28, 2010. “Satellite Applications for Port Security and Resilience,” www.stevens.edu/csr/.../SatelliteTeam_Final_SRI2010Report_.pdf)</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">ICTA - Round 5</span>**=== 
====New Arctic Scenario==== 
**Took out Alsaedi.**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Arctic Science preserves the ecosystem and biodiversity by making drilling responsible</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Joyner, 98</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher C. Joyner, Professor and MA in International Relations Government @ Georgetown University, “Governing the frozen commons: the Antarctic regime and environmental protection” Published By University of South Carolina Press, 1998, Online @ Google Books)</span>
A fourth policy...promoting responsible stewardship.

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Biodiversity loss causes extinction</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Young 10 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">PhD coastal marine ecology, [Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Different species within...maintains this service. </span>

=Negative= 
Questions, comments concerns, complaints at [[mailto:overachieverrox427@gmail.com|overachieverrox427@gmail.com]]

NOTE FOR N00BS LIKE SURAJ - AJA IS AMERICAN JOBS ACT
==Niles West== 

===Strats=== 

Rd 1 vs. Hoflo CG SPS
1NC - T- Weapons, SKFTA, DOD CP, Oil DA, Warming/Oil advantage cp
2NR - DOD and SKFTA

Rd 3 vs. Lane Tech KT SSA
1NC - Space Guard CP, Weaponization DA, ESA CP, SKFTA, T- mesosphere
2NR - Space Guard w/ internal nb, SKFTA

Rd 5 vs. Whitney Young DV ORS
1NC - Data sharing CP, SKFTA, Weaponization, Prizes Counterplan
2NR - Data sharing, weaponization

==St. Marks Soph Hoedown== 

===Strats=== 

Rd 2 vs. Cassady Ethical SPS
1NC - AJA, DOD CP, Oil Da ,Weaponization DA, Case
2NR - DOD and AJA

Rd 4 vs. Mountainbrook - Brilliant Pebbles
1NC - No BMD CP, ,Weaponization, AJA, Pearl Harbor K
2NR - Case and Weaponization

Rd 5 vs. Bishop Guertin UFO Tabboo
1NC - ET K, ESA CP, AJA, Framework
2NR - ET K, Framework, Case

Rd. 7 vs. Norte Dame Cosmopolitanism (Environment Monitoring)
1NC - ESA CP, Arms Sales DA, NASA Trade off DA, Framework
2NR - ESA CP, Arms Sales DA, Framework

==New Trier== 

===Strats=== 

Rd 2 vs GBN TY ASATS
1NC - Weaponization DA, Code of Conduct CP, T, Infrastructure Politics, case
2NR - Weaponization DA, CP, Case

Rd 4 vs Nevada Union DSCOVR
1NC - Infrastructure Politics, ESA CP, Smart Grid CP, Oil DA, case
2NR: ESA CP, Politics, Case

Rd 6 vs Whitney Young SPS
1NC - Anchor Tenant CP, Infrastructure Politics, Energy Advantage CP, Weaponization DA
2NR - Politics, Case

==University of Michigan== 

===Strats=== 

Rd 2 vs Traverse City Central SPS
1NC - Anchor Tenant CP, Cybersecurity Politics, EU CP, Weaponization DA, case
2NR - Anchor Tenant CP, Politics

Rd 4 vs Groves Critical JWST (racism)
1NC - Consult Russia, NASA Trade-off (Earth Science), WFIRST CP, Cybersecurity Politics , case
2NR - Earth Science Tradeoff, WFIRST CP, case

Rd 5 vs Portage SPS
1NC - Oil DA, Anchor Tenant CP, Weaponization DA, Cybersecurity Politics, case
2NR - Weaponization, case

==Dowling== 

===Strats=== 

Rd 1 vs. Edina LP ORS/Satellite Hardening
1NC - T Human, Payroll Tax Cuts Ptx, Weaponization, Data-Sharing/CoC Cp, case defense
2NR - CP, ptx, case

Rd 3 vs. Wayzata BS SPS
1NC - T human, Payroll Tax Cuts, GEO DA, Gender K, Anchor Tenant CP, case
2NR - Gender K, case

Rd 6 vs. Eden Praire KV GPS 3
1NC - T human, XO CP, Payroll tax cuts DA, Gender K, case
2NR - T human


==Blake== 

===Strats=== 

Rd 1 vs. Bishop Guertin SM Solar Sailds
1NC - T human, Centennial Challenge CP, Payroll Tax Cuts, Oil DA, Japan CP, case defense
2NR - Centennial Challenge CP, Payroll Tax Cuts, Case

Rd 4 vs. West Des Moines Valley BD
1NC - T human, Gender K, Payroll Tax Cuts, Weaponization, Case
2NR - Gender K

Rd 6 vs. Bronx Science DG
1NC - T human, Data Sharing CP, Weaponization, Jackson-Vanik DA, case
2NR - Weaponization, Data Sharing CP, case

==Golden Desert== 

===Strats=== 

Rd 2 vs. CK McClatchy KS (EOS)
1NC - T human, ESA CP, GEO DA, Payroll
2NR - T human and ifiat good

Rd 4 vs Juan Diego MF (SPS)
1NC - T Human, Anchor Tenant CP, Payroll Tax Cuts, GEO DA
2NR - Politics, Case (they went for condo)

Rd 5 vs Ingraham DM (K SPS)
1NC - T human, Anchor Tenant CP, Payroll, DoD Alt Energy CP, GEO DA
2NR - T Human

===Payroll Tax Cuts 1NC=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">PTC will pass – capital’s key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">WaPo 1-25 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[“State of the Union proposals: What might pass?”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">The biggest optimist...to the matter.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;"><Aff-specific Link></span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Key to the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ludwig 12/7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Eugene, chief executive of the Promontory Financial Group [“Why the Fight Over the Payroll Tax Matters,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/08/opinion/why-the-fight-over-the-payroll-tax-matters.html?_r=1]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">The payroll tax...our economic recovery.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Green and Schrage 09 </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">–</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Michael J Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, Asia Times, 2009 http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Facing the worst....to close markets.</span>

==HoFlo== 
===Strats=== 

Rd 1 vs. Marquette FL Solar Sails
1NC - T human, Cybersecurity Ptx, Weaponization DA, Privatization CP, case d
2NR - Privatization CP, Cybersecurity Ptx, case d

Rd 4 vs. Edina HP ORS/SSA
1NC - T human, deterrence commission cp, cybersecurity, Pearl Harbor K, case d
2NR - detterance commission cp, cybersecurity, case d

Rd 5 vs. Appleton East MB TSATs
1NC - T human, deterrence commission cp, cybersecurity, weaponization, case d
2NR - cybersecurity, case d

==ICTA== 
===Strats=== 

Rd 1 vs. Maine East GH ORS
1NC - T human, PGS DA, Jackson Vanik ptx, deterrence commission cp, case - defense, heg bad, cyberterror turn, china turn
2NR - Heg bad, Cyberterror turn, China turn

Rd 4 vs. Niles West AI SPS
1NC - T human, anchor tenant CP, Jackson Vanik ptx, ozone da, case- defense, heg bad, warming turn
2NR - Warming turn, China turn, heg bad

Quarters vs. GBN DM
1NC - T human, ESA CP, Jackson Vanik ptx, case- heg bad, and defense
2NR - Heg bad

==Woodward== 
===Strats=== 

Rd 2 vs. Johns Creek NS Fem Mission
1NC - T - destination, oil subsidies ptx, ESA CP, Framework, Heidigger
2NR - Framework, Oil subsidies, ESA CP

Rd 4 vs. Wesminster BL DRAGNETs
1NC - T-human, Defensive strat CP, Oil Subsidies Politics, Ozone DA, Heg bad
2NR - Heg bad

Rd 5 vs. UClab YZ SBL's
1NC - Coalitions CP, Oil subsidies ptx, weaponization, t human, case turns
2NR - CP, weaponization, case turns

Octos vs. Westminster OW AIS
1NC - T human, Consult Russia, Oil subsidies, LEO DA, heg bad
2NR - LEO turned GEO DA (O_o) and heg bad







[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]