[[toc]]
For Aff Cites email Justin [jfang775@gmail.com]
For Neg Cites email Connor [c0n1man@gmail.com]

=Affirmative= 
==TOC== 

Same SPS aff as golden desert
New plan text - The United States federal government should deploy solar power satellites in 3 hour Sub-Molniya Orbits and utilize Fresnal lenses for a High Concentration Photovoltaic power system to concentrate solar energy.

**Took out Tully and Morgan**

**On Ethics Adv, put in:**
**We have a moral obligation to provide sustainable energy access for all individuals.**
<span class="s1">**Di Dio ‘9**</span>(Debora, lead author, Energy Poverty: The Hidden Energy Crisis, Practical Action, Agadir, 2009 international conference on the integration of sustainable agriculture and rural development in the context of climate change, the energy crisis and food insecurity, [[http://www.digitaluniverse.net/Agadir_Conference_2009/articles/view/140191/]])

<span class="s3">Energy Poverty: the...to grow commensurately.</span>

**On Solvency, put in:**
**Motivations for action determine ethics.**
<span class="s1">**Kant ’85…300 years ago**</span>[Immanuel Kant, German philosopher from Kaliningrad, Russia researching, lecturing and writing on philosophy and anthropology at the end of the 18th century Enlightenment, The Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals. 1785]

Intelligence, wit, <span class="s1">judgment,...</span>been without it.

==St. Mark's 1AC== 
**Plan: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should mandate the use of nuclear explosive devices in rocket propulsion technology in its future non-military space exploration programs.**

**Project Orion was a propulsion system that relied on exploding nuclear bombs behind a rocket as a means of propulsion. It outperformed all other propulsion systems of the time. Nevertheless, NASA still shut down the program in 1965.**
<span class="s1">**Dyson ’02**</span>[George, scientific historian, Trinity College, Cambridge, Project Orion: The True Story of the Atomic Spaceship, 2002, pg. 263]

A series of...emerge the champions.

**The reason for the end of the program was fear that the public would freak out due to employment of nuclear bombs.**
<span class="s1">**Dyson ’02**</span>[George, scientific historian, Trinity College, Cambridge, Project Orion: The True Story of the Atomic Spaceship, 2002, pgs. 254-5]

Ted regarded Project...its own labs

**The inability of the state to guarantee safety in a nuclear realm means that its ability to be a sovereign power has been compromised. However, the state legitimizes nuclear security through nuclear reclusion. The public’s lack of perception in regards to nuclear policy gives the state the ability to continue its sovereign rule.**
<span class="s1">**Deudney ’95** </span>[Daniel Deudney, political scientist and Associate Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, PhD in Political Science from Princeton University, Political Fission: State Structure, Civil Society, and Nuclear Security Politics in the United States, 1995, pgs. 102-103]

<span class="s3">States are structures...</span>actual legitimacy crisis.

**The 1AC’s refusal of nuclear reclusion challenges the state’s nuclear legitimacy. The intrusion of nuclear weapons into our daily lives generates opposition.**
<span class="s1">**Deudney ’95** </span>[Daniel Deudney, political scientist and Associate Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, PhD in Political Science from Princeton University, Political Fission: State Structure, Civil Society, and Nuclear Security Politics in the United States, 1995, pgs. 103-4]

<span class="s3">Evidence for the...the civilian world.</span><span class="s4"> 32</span>

**The desire for security is based upon a framework of order and control. The State attempts to manage its nuclear stockpile and hide it in order to manipulate the population. This technological enframing culminates in mass graves and holocausts.**
<span class="s1">**Burke ’07**</span>[Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in Theory & Event, Vol. 10, Iss. 2]

By itself, such...or obstinate matter.

**Extinction is inevitable in a world of security.**
<span class="s1">**Mack ’88**</span>[John E., MD Psychiatrist and Professor @ Harvard Medical School, “The Enemy System,” Published in the Lancet, August 13, 1988, [[http://johnemackinstitute.org/1988/08/the-enemy-system-short-version/]]]

The threat of...the first victim.[8]

**The debate space and our intellectual positions are key to oppose militarized forms of academia that silence intellectual freedom and label populations disposable.**
<span class="s1">**Giroux ’10** </span>[Henry A., Chair in Communications in the Faculty of Humanities at McMaster University in Canada, 2010, Truthout, “The Disappearing Intellectual in the Age of Economic Darwinism”]

<span class="s3">In my view...</span>justice become possible.

**Absent our discussion and refusal of nuclear reclusion, we cannot become organic intellectuals who lay the groundwork for change when the public erupts in opposition to the state’s legitimacy deficits.**
<span class="s1">**Deudney ’95** </span>[Daniel Deudney, political scientist and Associate Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, PhD in Political Science from Princeton University, Political Fission: State Structure, Civil Society, and Nuclear Security Politics in the United States, 1995, pgs. 108-9]

<span class="s3">The third consequence...</span>their established goals.

**The technocratic elites have undermined the public’s ability to access nuclear politics. Our critique empowers the public’s ability to participate in discussions.**
<span class="s1">**Taylor and Hendry ’08**</span> **[Bryan C. Taylor and Judith Hendry, Rhetoric & Public Affairs Volume 11, Number 2, Summer 2008 “Insisting on Persisting: The Nuclear Rhetoric of "Stockpile Stewardship" Pg. 322-24]**

What then, we...of their creations.86




==Cal State Fullerton 1AC== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate inflatable solar power satellites.**

**Contention 1 is the Fossil Fuel Industry**

**The fossil fuel industry is spreading a web of lies. Disinformation campaigns reify their control over the energy market.**
<span class="s1">**Brown ’10** </span>[Donald A. Brown, Associate Professor, Environmental Ethics, Science, and Law at Penn State University, Are Fossil Fuel Industry Commercials Encouraging Americans to Engage In Unethical Climate Change Causing Behavior?, September 2, 2010, [[http://rockblogs.psu.edu/climate/2010/09/do-current-fossil-fuel-industry-commercials-encourage-americans-to-engage-in|http://rockblogs.psu.edu/climate/2010/09/do-current-fossil-fuel-industry-commercials-encourage-americans-to-engage-in-unethical-behavior-on-c.html]]]

Yet there is...at public meetings.

**Liberalization has allowed the fossil fuel industry to erase the potential of renewable energy.**
<span class="s1">**Scheer ’06** </span>[Hermann Scheer, Asst. Prof. of Economics @ Technical Univ. of Stuttgart, Member of German Parliament, General Chairman of the World Council for Renewable Energy, President of EUROSOLAR, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 141-142]

In her book...vehicle for self-interest.

**This allows the fossil fuel industry to get away with mass murder – exploitation by the fossil fuel industry causes immense structural violence – environmental exploitation kills 150,000 people a year and causes 5 million incidents of disease in the world’s poorest nations. As one of world’s highest-emitting countries, the US must lead.**
<span class="s1">**Brown ’10** </span>[Donald A. Brown, Associate Professor, Environmental Ethics, Science, and Law at Penn State University, Are Fossil Fuel Industry Commercials Encouraging Americans to Engage In Unethical Climate Change Causing Behavior?, September 2, 2010, [[http://rockblogs.psu.edu/climate/2010/09/do-current-fossil-fuel-industry-commercials-encourage-americans-to-engage-in-unethical-behavior-on-c.html]]]

<span class="s2">To understand why...</span>with fossil fuel.

**Structural violence is the greatest impact – it outweighs all armed conflict and war.**
<span class="s1">**Gilligan ’96**</span><span class="s2"> [</span>James Psychiatrist, Former Director of Psychiatry at Massachusetts State Prison, worked in the criminal justice system for many years. M.D Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School]

<span class="s3">The deadliest form...</span>epidemiologically significant scale.

**Contention 2 is Ethics**

**The fossil fuel industry has a long track record of human rights abuses – corporations use brutal repression to silence critics – this erodes the foundations of democracy and makes the chance of civil war 40 times greater.**
<span class="s1">**OCI ’11**</span>[Oil Change International campaigns to expose the true costs of fossil fuels and facilitate the coming transition towards clean energy. We are dedicated to identifying and overcoming barriers to that transition, 2011, http://priceofoil.org/thepriceofoil/human-rights/]

<span class="s3">There is an...</span>managed resource extraction.

**This is particularly true in Bahrain – oil corporations have hijacked Bahrain’s democratic uprising. Top corporations are rushing into Bahrain to ready the country for oil exploitation – this necessitates large-scale human rights abuses to suppress the democratic movement. The US has remained largely silent on the issue – its oil relationship with Saudi Arabia dominates its agenda.**
<span class="s1">**Horn ’11**</span>[Steve, writer and journalist, Independent Australia, “Fossil fuel industry sponsors repression in Bahrain,” 2 October 2011, [[http://www.independentaustralia.net/2011/politics/fossil-fuel-lobby-sponsors-re|http://www.independentaustralia.net/2011/politics/fossil-fuel-lobby-sponsors-repression-in-bahrain/]]]

<span class="s3">What began as...people of Bahrain</span><span class="s4">.</span>

**The fossil fuel mentality dominates the frame of US political thought – oil dependency keeps the US a hostage to Saudi Arabian oil while blinding us to the potential of renewables.**
<span class="s1">**Scheer ’10**</span>[Hermann Scheer, Asst. Prof. of Economics @ Technical Univ. of Stuttgart, Member of German Parliament, General Chairman of the World Council for Renewable Energy, President of EUROSOLAR, Interview with Democracynow.org, September 10, 2010, http://www.democracynow.org/2010/10/15/hermann_scheer_1944_2010_german_lawmaker]

AMY GOODMAN: Herman...values we have.

**Refusal to prevent the problems of fossil fuels is an instance of doubling – we accept there are certain necessary costs. This is the root of violence. Only by accepting and ethical responsibility for suffering can we prevent violence.**
<span class="s1">**Fasching ’93**</span>[Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima” 1993, pgs. 88-92]

For the doctors...<span class="s4">by its self-deception.</span>

**This form of doubling makes extinction inevitable – accepting the suffering of the Bahraini people as a normalized part of life locks us into a train of thought where we see their suffering as natural and a necessary cost of the nuclear age. This legitimizes apocalyptic suicide – we become rendered passive consumers while the state builds nuclear bombs and marches toward Armageddon. Only affirming our ethical relationship to the Bahraini revolution allows us to break this frame – questioning the status quo’s insidious doubling is the first step to creating new political futures.**
<span class="s1">**Fasching ’93**</span>[Darrell J. Fasching, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima : Apocalypse or Utopia? 1993, p. 116-124]

<span class="s3">We live in...its sacred order</span><span class="s4">.</span>

**Our ethical responsibility to the Other should come before all else – we must affirm the excluded Bahraini Other if we are to move beyond our preconceived frames for viewing the world – this ethical stance is key to an ethical reorientation of how we view the world.**
<span class="s1">**Davy ‘07**</span>[Barbara Jane Devy, Ph.D. in religion from Concordia University, Montreal. She has taught courses on religion and ecology at Concordia University and Carleton University, and is past-president of the Environmental Studies Association of Canada, 2007, An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas, Ethics & the Environment 12.1 (2007) 39-65]

For Levinas, <span class="s1">the...</span>themes of interpretation.

**Our aff is an affirmation of democracy for democracy’s sake in Bahrain. This is key to breaking with the idea that US corporate interests should dominate our Middle Eastern policy when approaching the Arab Spring. The plan is an ethical affirmation of our undying obligation to democracy in Bahrain.**
<span class="s1">**Manning ’11**</span>[Rev. Dr. Rob Manning, professor of philosophy and religious studies at Quincy University, Unitarian Minister, Call it a Day for Democracy: Thoughts on our Revolutionary Present for Jacques Derrida. Its called a sermon. February 27, 2011 [[http://uuquincy.org/talks/20110227.shtml]]]

I have wanted...day for democracy.

**Moral actors should not consider disadvantages caused by intervening actors – otherwise you could only conclude that Martin Luther King should have remained silent in order to prevent violence from white supremacists.**
<span class="s1">**Gewirth ’94**</span>[Alan, prof of philosophy @ U of Chicago, 1994, Absolutism and its Consequentialist Critics]

An example of...right remains absolute.

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**Solar power satellites are ready for development. Critics base their arguments on flawed data.**
<span class="s1">**SSPW ’11**</span>[Space Solar Power Workshop, 2011, Georgia Institute of Technology, Silent Power, pg. 41-42]
<span class="s3">Studies of Space...been available, ... yet</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**Inflatable SPS solves feasibility and monetary issues.**
<span class="s1">**Brown ’09** </span>[Trevor, author focused on political, economic, and military strategy for the medium of space. He holds a BA from Indiana University and an MSc from Nanyang Technological University, SSP: a spherical architecture, June 1, 2009, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article|http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]]

<span class="s3">The concept of...medium of space.</span>

**Demonstrating SPS leads to R&D and innovation – launch costs go down and the market booms.**
<span class="s1">**Globus et al ’11**</span> [Al Globus is Chair of the National Space Society's Space Settlement Advocacy Committee, Ion Bararu and Mihai Radu Popesc, " Towards an Early Profitable Powersat Part II," http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2011-TowardsAnEarlyProfitablePowerSatPartII.pdf]

One argument against...the right direction.

==Alta 1AC== 
New Plan Text: **The United States federal government should develop inflatable solar power satellites.**

Same 1AC as Cal State Fullerton, just added these cards:
On Ethics:
**Calculability devalues life and makes extermination possible.**
<span class="s1">**Dillon ’99**</span>[Michael, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the University of Lancaster, “Another Justice”, Political Theory, 27.2, April, p. 164-165]

Quite the reverse
way of being.

On Solvency:
**SPS creates en****ough energy to end dependence on the fossil fuel industry.**
<span class="s1">**Mankins**</span>, President of SPA and Former NASA Scientist,<span class="s1"> **8**</span>(John, Preeminent Global Expert on SSP, SPA = Space Power Association, President of ARTEMIS Innovation Management Solutions, Worked @ NASA for 25 Years, “Space-Based Solar Power: Inexhaustible Energy From Orbit,” Spring, Ad Astra, [[http://www|http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]],)
At an altitude
<span class="s3">thousands of miles</span><span class="s4">.</span>

==Golden Desert 1AC== 
**New Plan Text -**
**The United States federal government should deploy solar power satellites in 3 hour Sub-Molniya Orbits and utilize Fresnal lenses to concentrate solar energy for a High Concentration Photovoltaic power system.**

Took out Horn and Manning. Put in:

**Additionally, developed nations ignore the energy oppressed and view them as a problem of the developing world.**
<span class="s1">**Guruswamy ’10**</span>[Lakshman, Nicholas Doman Professor of Law at the University of Colorado at Boulder and Director for the Center for Energy and Environmental Security, “Energy Justice and Sustainable Development,” 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 231, lexis]
Unfortunately, for too long, <span class="s1">the … </span> caused by hydrocarbons.

**We have a moral obligation to provide sustainable energy access for all individuals.**
<span class="s1">**Tully ’06**</span>[Stephen, former BP Postdoctoral … ,” The Electricity Journal 19.3, April 2006, pg 30-39]

<span class="s1">Characterizing electricity as an essential … </span>competing agricultural or industrial applications.

**New Solvency:**
**Sub-Molniya Orbit resolves all feasibility issues.**
<span class="s1">**Jones 10**</span>(Royce, September 29th 2010, Royce … -solar-power-satellite-systems.html)

<span class="s3">In order for SBSP concepts … viability of previous SBSP designs</span><span class="s2">.</span>

**SPS creates enough energy to end dependence on the fossil fuel industry.**
<span class="s1">**Mankins ’08**</span>(John, President of SPA … ,)

At an altitude of 22,240 miles … <span class="s1">separated by thousands of miles</span>.

**Institutionalizing our encounter with the Other is key to massive changes. Political ideology reflects personal ideology. Institutions are an inevitable part of life and we must work through them.**
<span class="s1">**Morgan ’07**</span>[Michael L. Morgan, chancellor's professor … at Indiana University, Discovering Levinas, 2007, pg. 231-2]

Certainly among the most noteworthy … relationships” presuppose the face-to-face.15

**Solar power satellites are ready for development. Critics base their arguments on flawed data.**
<span class="s1">**SSPW ’11**</span>[Space Solar Power Workshop, 2011, … Institute of Technology, Silent Power, pg. 41-42]
<span class="s3">Studies of Space Solar Power … has not been available, ... yet</span><span class="s4">.</span>

**Demonstrating SPS leads to R&D and innovation – launch costs go down and the market booms.**
<span class="s3">**Globus et al ’11**</span> <span class="s6">[Al Globus … ]</span>

One argument against any SSP … <span class="s1">step in the right direction.</span>

**A human rights approach to energy spills over internationally – the alternative is exclusion.**
<span class="s1">**Bradbrook and Gardam ’06**</span>[Adrian, Professor … Judith, Professor of International Law
“Placing Access to Energy Services within a Human Rights Framework,” Human Rights Quarterly, 28.2, Muse]

<span class="s3">There are significant advantages in … a mechanism for addressing this deficiency</span><span class="s4">.</span>

=<span class="s4">Negative</span>= 


==<span class="s4">Disadvantages</span>== 

===Russia Relations=== 
<span class="Tag">U.S.-Russia relations are high now – New START proves.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Rykhtik ’11</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: justify;">[Mikhail Rykhti, international relations at Nizhny Novgorod State University, PONARS Eurasia (George Washington University Elliott School of International Affairs), Memo No. 175, September 2011, Extending the “Reset” in U.S.-Russian Relations]</span>
Recently, U.S.-Russia relations have been developing ... These and other developments indicate that US-Russian cooperation is reaching a new plateau.


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Unilateral space action kills relations.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Wood ’10</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: justify;">[Jason D. Wood, Washington, D.C.-based policy analyst and a member of the 2010 Nuclear Scholars Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Dec. 13, 2010, The U.S.-Russia Space Relationship and Future Space Security, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/7300/the-u-s-russia-space-relationship-and-future-space-security]</span>
While much has been said about the overall merits of the New START agreement ... into the fold of responsible, normative behavior in space.

<span class="Tag">This opens up multiple nuclear conflicts</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Cohen ’10</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: justify;">[Stephen, prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU, Prof emeritus, Princeton, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010,</span><span style="color: #000000; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: justify; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]]
</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: justify;">]</span>
Cohen: The real concern I have with this “we won the Cold War” triumphalism is the mythology that ... or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots.


===Weaponization DA=== 

US is not weaponizing space now
De Selding2-20-09, Peter B.: Space News Staff Writer [“Pentagon Official: U.S. Is Not Developing Space Weapons,” http://www.space.com/news/090220-pentagon-space-weapons.html]
STRASBOURG, France - The United States is not developing ... that the United States and others have been unable" to produce a treaty.


Plan causes mixed perception about space development – leads to global militarization
Michelson ’10 – the Roeper School Egypt Representative, Special Political Committee, 10 (Rebecca, 2010, "Peaceful Use of Outer Space", http://www.glica.org/topics/show/78)
In the years following the Cold War-inspired need for outer space domination ... safeguard outer space for peaceful purposes.

Space weaponization kills deterrence and causes nuclear war
Krepon and Clary 3 – Michael Krepon, served as the president and CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Christopher Clary, Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project at the Stimson Center, April 2, 2003, “Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space,” Henry L. Stimson Center, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf
The presumed additional deterrent value of U.S. space weapons ... applause of the choice of weaponry used in preemptive strikes.

Deterrence prevents large scale war - Taiwan, Korea, and Kashmir prove
Alagappa ‘8 [Muthiah – Distinguished senior fellow at the East-West Center. The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia. Ed. Muthiah Alagappa. p. ]
Nuclear weapons have a low profile in the conflicts across ... significant ways and in essence take large-scale war off the table.


==Counterplans== 

===Prizes CP=== 
State prizes spur new technology – solves exploration.
Edward Aldridge Jr. et al 03, Under Secretary for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, at the Department of Defense, June 2004, “A Journey to Inspire, Innovate, and Discover,” Report of the President’s Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/60736main_M2M_report_small.pdf
The U.S. government need not shoulder the entire ... afford, will indeed get us to the Moon, Mars, and beyond.

===Climate Detection CP=== 

The United States federal government should support the cultivation and distribution of natural history collections modeled on the Darwin Initiative.

Natural History Collections are the most effective method of improving modeling and climate change data James et al, Postdoctoral researcher at the Natural History Museum in London, 2011[ February, Karen E. James, Adrian M. Lister, Ellinor Michel, Mark Spencer, Jonathan A. Todd, Eugenia Valsami-Jones, Jeremy R. Young, John R. Stewart, Climate Change and Biosphere Response: Unlocking the Collections Vault ]
Over the past few decades, ecologists ... that is invaluable when resources are limited and the need for results is urgent.

===Sodium Bicarbonate CP=== 

Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should provide financial incentives and subsidies to all fossil fuel plants in the United States to use Skyonic Skymine carbon capture technology to convert carbon dioxide emissions into sodium bicarbonate for commercial sale. The federal government should make this eligible for all emission reduction and carbon tax policies.

That solves 90% of warming emissions
Kanellos 7 [Michael, CNET, News Staff Writer, “Can baking soda curb global warming?,” 11/27/2007, http://news.cnet.com/Can-baking-soda-curb-global-warming/2100-13838_3-6220127.html]
Some scientists have proposed compressing carbon ... Creating sodium bicarbonate would probably be the best solution.


==Kritiks== 

===**Security K**=== 
===1NC=== 
The idea of catastrophe management results in an endless cycle of problems to be fixed.
Der Derian 2005
(Brown, James International Studies, Predicting the Present, Vol. 27 (3) - Fall 2005, http://hir.harvard.edu/articles/1430/)

It often takes a catastrophe to reveal the... the capacity of conventional language itself.


Their apocalypse justifies biopoltical genocide

Coviello 2000

(Peter, Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On.”)
This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag's incisive observation... otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

Reject the aff’s employment of security – individual criticism can create terrains of dissent.
Anthony Burke, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland. Alternatives 27, 2002.
It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but as ... and what its shimmering possi­bilities might be.


===2NC Framework=== 

Security discourse defines who deserves authority – these discourses shape policy by determining what can and cannot be thought Lipschutz 1998 Ronnie, Director – Politics PhD Program, UC Santa Cruz, 1998. “On Security” p. 7
Conceptualizations of security ... as it is of discursive practices."

Assuming that politics has an endpoint without looking at the justifications and processes that lead to that politics results in devastating consequences by destroying the agency of discussing the linguistic acts that lead to political choice
Bleiker 2000 (Roland, Popular Dissent, Agency, and Global Politics, p.242-243)
No dissenting writer can hope to ... discursive boundaries of global politics.

===2NC Perm=== 

Combinations of the alternative and the state result in the cooption of intellectuals into a political, interventionist sphere Shampa BISWAS, Prof – Politics, Whitman, 2007 "Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist" Millennium 36 (1)
While it is no surprise that the US academy ... contemporary context preceding and following the 2003 invasion of Iraq.

===AT: Threats Real=== 
The mindset of endless threats is a self-fulfilling prophecy leading to the constant creation of more threats Lipschutz 1998 Ronnie, Director – Politics PhD Program, UC Santa Cruz, “On Security” p. 8
Security is, to put Wæver's argument in other words ... in this respect, their relationship is intersubjective.



===Cap K=== 

===1NC=== 
Capitalism expands by exploring and developing space. Dickens ’10 [Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]
The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside” ... companies attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”

Capitalism necessitates nuclear war and is the root of the aff’s impacts. Webb ’04 [Sam, masters in econ at uconn, “War, Capitalism, and George W. Bush.” 2004, http://www.pww.org/article/view/4967/1/207/O/]
Capitalism was never a warm, cuddly ... in large measure on the outcome of political struggle.

The alternative is to stop the humanization of space. Dickens ’09 [Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, May, The Sociological Review, Vol. 57, Iss. Supp. s1, p. 68-82]
If Rosa Luxemburg’s theory of imperialism is correct ... crises on Planet Earth are currently far more compelling.


===K aff link=== 
Social movements in debate only create more space within capitalism and abandon changing the system. Young ’06 [Robert, Associate Professor of English, works in the area of contemporary African-American literary and cultural theory, contemporary social theory, and materialism, Red Critique, Winter/Spring, “Putting Materialism back into Race Theory”, 2006, http://www.redcritique.org/WinterSpring2006/puttingmaterialismbackintoracetheory.htm]
Gilroy endorses the new social movements precisely ... politics to the cultural (re)negotiations of identity.


==Case Negs== 

===[[#ORS Neg]]ORS Neg=== 
**Cheap satellites destroy the aerospace industry.**
<span class="s1">**Harrison et al ’09** </span>[Ambassador Roger G. Harrison, Collins G. Shackelford, and Deron R. Jackson, Space Deterrence: The Delicate Balance of Risk, Summer 2009, Space and Defense 3.1]

Perhaps the most...in the private sector.