[[toc]]
=Contact Information= 

For cites during the Greenhill RR and Greenhill tournament please e-mail Scott Brown at [[mailto:sbrowndebate@gmail.com|sbrowndebate@gmail.com]] __instead__ of the debaters. Thanks.

But that's over now so email

[[mailto:mkoo7000@gmail.com|mkoo7000@gmail.com]] for aff cites
[[mailto:gatecrasher728@gmail.com|gatecrasher728@gmail.com]] for neg cites

nidhi needs to hop off everyone else's swag! (can i get those germany da sites?)


=Aff= 

==Greenhill Rd 1 - DSCOVR== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.**

__**Contention One is Solar Storms**__
**Initially note --- multiple solar flares are coming in the status quo – the Sun is reaching its most active phase**
**Moskowitz 8/11** [Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]]</span>]
Solar flares like the huge one that erupted on the sun ……. researchers said.

**The magnitude of these will be huge – massive solar storms make a global disaster inevitable**
**Derbyshire 11** [David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]
The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm' that could knock out communications satellites, ground aircraft and trigger blackouts - causing hundreds of billions of pounds of damage, scientists say. Astronomers today warned that mankind is now more vulnerable to a major solar storm than at any time in ….. the U.S. space agency said.

**The failure of Advanced Composition Explorer or ACE is creating a huge operational gap in our ability to predict solar storms – DSCOVR is key to solve**
**Lautenbacher 10** [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]
In addition to events such as the Haitian earthquake and global warming, …. DSCOVR's launch __[[home|funding]]__ be eliminated.

**ACE cannot withstand a super storm and will fail to warn us**
**CARV 5/18** [Concept Activity Research Vault, 5/18/2011 develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, Satellite outages now critical data problem, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]]</span>]
The Advanced Composition Explorer….. its NASA calculated life expectance.

**And, early warning is critical to prevent the storms worst impacts, and ACE is our __[[home|best satellite]]__ now**
**Phillips 10** [Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]
Earth and space are ….. very seriously indeed."

**DSCOVR solves – its unique position gives it the ability to anticipate solar storms**
**Clark 11** [Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]
From that location, Earth science sensors on DSCOVR would have a constant view of the day side of the planet. But the L1 point is more commonly used by solar science missions, and it's an ideal location for a spacecraft to sniff out geomagnetic storms before they reach Earth. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would manage the DSCOVR mission as ….. work on the project in 2001.

**A solar storm would destroy the economy in two ways**
**A. Blackouts**
**Butt 10** [Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global __[[home|Security]]__ Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span>]
For the reasons outlined …..and lengthy restoration times, and chronic shortages for multiple years are possible [25].

**They are key to the economy**
**Bryan 03** Jay, The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec), August 19, SECTION: Business; Opinion on the Blackout; Pg. B1, HEADLINE: Power grids vital in information age: "Just a few days could theoretically take economic growth ... right down to zero" l/n
This worsened ….. indispensable in an information-age economy.

**B. It destroys satellites**
**OECD 11’** [OECD/ IFP Future project on “Future Global Shocks”, January 14th 2011, “Geomagnetic Storms”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/57/25/46891645.pdf]]</span>]
One of the consequences with ……significant replacement challenge.

**Satellite malfunctions collapse the global economy**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>.
Commercially, the economy of the …….Chevron gas stations without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9

**Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict**
**Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may …..debate and deserves more attention.

**__Contention Two is Operational Data__**
**Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in military response capabilities – decapitates effective interventionism to check the impacts of climate change**
**Rogers and Gulledge 2010** [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]
Climate change will likely exacerbate ….. less well prepared to meet future challenges.

**And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data**
**Rogers and Gulledge 2010** [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]
Given the proliferation of new tools …..secu­rity professionals need to ask.

**Climate change causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve**
**Tussing 2008** [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]
The impetus behind these efforts on the ….. are taking shape in every theater.

**Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action**
**Tussing 2008** [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]
In emulation of the American effort….. solely in the camp of the civil authorities.

**Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars**
**Smith 2007** [Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]
Deployment …. engage military forces in a reactive manner.

**Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war**
**Deutsch ’02** [Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>]
The Rabid Tiger …… feel compelled to follow their client states.

**No offense – warming is inevitable status quo CO2 emissions and feedbacks guarantee it**
**Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09** (Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)
Over the 20th century, …. carbon dioxide reached.

**DSCOVR solves its critical to calibrate climate models**
**Williams 2008** [Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]
Obama’s first presidential pardon should be to free a political prisoner, held without trial, rhyme nor reason, in solitary confinement in an air conditioned prison box somewhere outside Washington, DC. The ….. with giving environmentalism a great boost in the 1970s.

**That solves any gaps in status quo capabilities – DSCOVR’s position makes it key**
**Wiscombe and Herman 2002** [Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era
http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]
The L1 and L2 Lagrange points ….. gaps left by other networks and spaceborne platforms”

**The plan allows for a global intergrated observational system**
**Valero 2007**** [Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]</span>]
The L-1 and L-2 Earth-……. LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.

==Greenhill Rd 4 - DSCOVR== 

Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">Contention One is Solar Starms</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">An intense solar storm is inevitable by 2013 – international panel of experts confirm</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phillips</span>, production editor of Science @ NASA, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>
(Dr. Tony, NASA“ New Solar Cycle Prediction” [[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2009/29may_noaaprediction/]], May 29, accessed 7-22-11, ASR)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">An international panel of experts led by NOAA …"only" $80 to 125 billion in damage.</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The solar storm would be a global disaster </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Derbyshire 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]</span>
The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm' …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> across the Canadian province of Quebec, the U.S. space agency said</span>

The failure of Advanced Composition Explorer or ACE is creating a huge operational gap in our ability to predict solar storms – DSCOVR is key to solve
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lautenbacher 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010**,** Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]</span>
In addition to events such as the Haitian earthquake …<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ACE is failing and there are no status quo replacement plans—not replacing it could cost millions of lives</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks 9</span> – consultant for //New Science// (Michael, 3-23-2009, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, “Space Storm Alert: 90 Seconds from Catastrophe,” [[http://www.ntia.doc.gov/legacy/broadbandgrants/comments/7927.pdf]]) EB
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">There is another problem. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span> be the worst natural disaster possible," he says.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, early warning is critical to prevent the storms worst impacts, and ACE is our best satellite now</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phillips 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]</span>
<span class="underline">Earth and space are about to come into contact in a way that's new to human history…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span><span class="underline">We take this very seriously indeed." </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DSCOVR solves – its unique position gives it the ability to anticipate solar storms</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clark 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From that location, </span>Earth science sensors on DSCOVR would have a constant view of the day side of the planet…<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> suspended work on the project in 2001. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A solar storm would destroy the economy in two ways</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Blackouts without recovery</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks, PhD in quantum physics</span>, 3/23/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>
[Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, BJM]
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">First to go</span> - immediately for some people - <span style="font-size: 10pt;">is drinkable water</span>. …<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> US would ever bounce back.</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space commerce</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OECD 11’</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [OECD/ IFP Future project on “Future Global Shocks”, January 14th 2011, “Geomagnetic Storms”, </span>[[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/57/25/46891645.pdf]]]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One of the consequences with an international impact …</span> would pose a significant replacement challenge.

The magnitude of this internal is huge
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>.**
**Commercially, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the economy of the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 10pt;">is heavily dependent …</span> without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9**

**Collapse of the economy causes conflict to erupt in hotspots around the globe**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg, IR Professor at Princeton, ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Aaron, “The Dangers of a Diminished America” Wall Street Journal)</span>**
**Then <span style="font-size: 10pt;">there are</span> the dolorous <span style="font-size: 10pt;">consequences of … price tag of continued American leadership</span>.**

**Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> [</span>Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]**
**Less intuitive is how periods of <span style="font-size: 10pt;">economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict…</span> economic-security debate and deserves more attention.**


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">Contention Two is Operational Data</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in military response capabilities – decapitates effective interventionism to check the impacts of climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>**
**<span class="underline">Climate change will likely exacerbate trends such as food insecurity, water scarcity and extreme weather </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>prepared to meet future challenges<span class="underline">. </span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]</span>**
**Given the proliferation of new tools<span class="underline"> (e.g., climate satellites and advanced computer models) … </span>questions that national secu­rity professionals<span class="underline"> need to</span>ask<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

**Climate change causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tussing 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>**
**The impetus behind these efforts on the part of the U.S. Government in general, and its military in particular, is not totally altruistic. More and more <span style="font-size: 10pt;">we are awakening to the realization that regional stability is directly impacted …</span> Disaster Relief Response Process are taking shape in every theater.**

**Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tussing 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In emulation of the American effort, other countries’ governments …</span> lies solely in the camp of the civil authorities.**

**Climate crises cause global nuclear war – multiple scenarios in every region of the world**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz and Randall, 2004 </span>(Peter,CIA consultant and former head of planning at Royal Dutch/Shell Group, and Doug of the California-based Global Business Network; “An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security”; Commissioned by the U.S. Pentagon; http://www.kelber.de/medien/doks/Pentagon-Studie%20Klimawandel.pdf)**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As famine, disease, and weather-related disasters strike due to the abrupt climate change…</span>**as will Israel, Iran, Egypt, and North Korea.

**Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 2007 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]</span>**
**Deployment of military forces will be limited most likely to two key situations…<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> military forces in a reactive manner. </span>**
**Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war**
**Deutsch ’02 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>]</span>**
**The Rabid Tiger Project believes that a nuclear war is most likely to start in Africa. … the great powers feel compelled to follow their client states.**

**No offense – warming is inevitable status quo CO2 emissions and feedbacks guarantee it**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span>**
**Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to human activities. The stated objective (Article 2) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC…<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached</span>.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DSCOVR solves its critical to calibrate climate models</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should be to free a political prisoner, ….</span><span class="underline"> giving environmentalism a great boost</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the 1970s. </span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That solves any gaps in status quo capabilities – DSCOVR’s position makes it key</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The L1 and L2 Lagrange points are 1.5 million km from Earth along the Earth-Sun line (Figs. 1, 2). …</span> fill in data gaps left by other networks and spaceborne platforms”**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan allows for a global intergrated observational system</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Valero 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, [[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The L-1 and L-2 Earth-Sun Lagrange points mark positions where the gravitational pull of the Earth and …LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.</span>

==DSCOVR Aff - Georgetown and Bronx== 
Because of the lack of timeliness for posting this, here is full text

**Plan – The United States Federal Government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory**

**__Contention 1 – Solar Storms__**

**The debate over solar storms is over – an international of panels confirm that they are coming and will have devastating effects – previous models were flawed**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phillips</span>**, production editor of Science @ NASA, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span> (Dr. Tony, NASA“ New Solar Cycle Prediction” [[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2009/29may_noaaprediction/]], May 29, accessed 7-22-11, ASR)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">An international panel of experts led by NOAA a... awakening Solar Cycle 24 and form the basis for the panel's new, </span>almost<span style="text-decoration: none;">unanimous forecast.</span>

**The failure of Advanced Composition Explorer or ACE is creating a huge operational gap in our ability to predict solar storms – DSCOVR is key to solve**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lautenbacher 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010**,** Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]</span>
In addition to events such as the ...<span style="text-decoration: none;"> to let DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No other satellite matters – ACE’s failure is creating a hole in our constellation – no other satellite provides upstream monitoring</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**NRC 0**8</span> (National Research Council of the National Academies, Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, private, nonprofit, self-perpetuating society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research, dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to their use for the general welfare., Severe Space Weather Events--Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts Workshop Report, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nap.edu/catalog/12507.html]]</span>)
Pursuing this theme, <span style="text-decoration: none;">several participants ...</span> wind measurements from an L1-based spacecraft.

**Early warning of storms solves blackouts and satellite failure.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phillips 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]</span>
<span class="underline">Earth and space are about to come into...</span> "<span class="underline">We take this very seriously indeed." </span>

**Independently, a solar storm collapses the economy – destroys space commerce**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Knapp 9/14</span>/11** Alex, futurism columnist for Forbes, A Powerful Solar Storm Could Render Satellites Inoperable For Years, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/09/14/a-powerful-solar-storm-could-render-satellites-inoperable-for-years/]]</span> JG
Last October, around Halloween, the ...<span style="text-decoration: none;"> to diminish the impacts of such storms.</span>

**Collapse of the economy causes conflict to erupt in hotspots around the globe**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg, IR Professor at Princeton, ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Aaron, “The Dangers of a Diminished America” Wall Street Journal)</span>
Then <span style="text-decoration: none;">there are</span> the dolorous <span style="text-decoration: none;">... price tag of continued American leadership</span>.

**Storms kill the grid and cause nuclear meltdown. Impact is extinction.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IB Times 9/14/11</span>**
International __[[home|Business]]__ Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm
(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 ... go into a total meltdown simultaneously.

**__Contention Two – Heat is On__**

**Warming is inevitable status quo CO2 emissions and feedbacks guarantee it**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span>
Over the 20th century,...<span style="text-decoration: none;"> the peak level of carbon dioxide reached</span>.

**However, Climate deniers are winning – climategate has disabled movements against warming and the proliferation __nonscientific__, __unfalsifiable__ is preventing us from addressing solutions**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Trenberth, ’11** [</span>Kevin E., Distinguished Senior Scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, head of the Climate Analysis Section at the USA National Center for Atmospheric Research, The guy who wrote "The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't.,” COMMUNICATING CLIMATE SCIENCE AND THOUGHTS ON CLIMATEGATE, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cgd.ucar.edu/cas/Trenberth/trenberth.papers/ClimategateThoughts4AMS_v3.pdf]]</span>]
This article briefly ... hypothesis when it is in fact false.

**DSCOVR solves – “L1” data collection provides unprecedented proof through integrated and calibrated climate models, overcomes warming skeptics**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anderson 10</span>** (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The media missed ...</span> in our Earth observation instruments.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DSCOVR solves all status quo data gaps, unique positioning</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]</span>
The L1 and L2 Lagrange...<span class="underline">networks and spaceborne platforms” </span>

**Adaptation strategies are inevitable, certainty is key to make it large scale and data is key to make it effective and avoid maladaptations which worsen the impacts of climate change – solves disease, biodiversity, and agricultural crises**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stutz, ’09</span> [**26 May 2009, Bruce Stutz writes on science, nature, and the environment. A former editor-in-chief of Natural History, he is a contributing editor to OnEarth. He has written for the New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, Discover and Audubon. He is the author of Natural Lives, Modern Times and Chasing Spring, An American Journey Through a Changing Season. “Adaptation Emerges as Key Part of Any Climate Change Plan”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2156]]</span>]

<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">With nations in the industrialized ... and places resilient to a possible range of changes.</span>
**Diseases cause extinction via mutation – Nobel prize winning scientists confirm the risk**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Greger 08</span>** (Michael, M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111)
Senate Majority Leader Frist ...<span style="text-decoration: none;"> transmute into a tune whistled whilst passing a graveyard</span>.”3154

**Biodiversity loss causes extinction – their resiliency arguments and their defense is only possible with diverse ecosystems**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young</span>,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD coastal marine ecology, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Different species</span> within ecosystems ...<span style="text-decoration: none;"> of biodiversity maintains this service.</span></span>

**Agricultural losses lead to global nuclear war**
**Calvin, ‘02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William H, Univ Washington, A Brain For All Seasons, http://faculty.washington.edu/wcalvin/BrainForAllSeasons/NAcoast.htm)</span>
The population-crash scenario ... extra warming from the North Atlantic.

==DSKOVR - Bronx Semis== 

Contention 1 is The Inferno

**The science behind warming is rock solid, all opposition is unscientific and funded by the oil industry. Climate denialism is no longer acceptable for policy making**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CFR 9/25/11 </span>**
Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-apthe_americanallergyto_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises on algae ..."We must protect the habitat that sustains us."</span>
Prefer our theories – consensus building is the only way to determine the veracity of scientific predictions – their authors aren’t peer reviewed funded by the oil industry
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davies, ’08</span> [Author and Geophysicist at the Australian National University, 6/11/08 [Dr. Geoff Davies, Science Alert, “Why listen to scientists?”<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciencealert.com.au/opinions/20081106-17474.html]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor Don </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Aitkin’s <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://onlineopinion.com.au/documents/articles/A_Cool_Look_5-4-08.pdf|recent promotion]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (PDF 258KB) ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> ago are being broadly vindicated</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>

**However, Climate deniers are winning – climategate has disabled movements against warming and the proliferation nonscientific, unfalsifiable is preventing us from addressing solutions**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Trenberth, ’11** [</span>Kevin E., Distinguished Senior Scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, head of the Climate Analysis Section at the USA National Center for Atmospheric Research, The guy who wrote "The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't.,” COMMUNICATING CLIMATE SCIENCE AND THOUGHTS ON CLIMATEGATE, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cgd.ucar.edu/cas/Trenberth/trenberth.papers/ClimategateThoughts4AMS_v3.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> This article briefly ... the null hypothesis when it is in fact false.</span>

**Warming causes extinction -- scientific consensus its real and anthropogenic – the magnitude of the impact chances traditional impact calculus**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, ‘09</span>** [Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">As horrifying as the ... stacks the cards against our chances of survival?</span>

**DSCOVR is critical to solve – “L1” data collection provides unprecedented proof through integrated and calibrated climate models, overcomes warming skeptics**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anderson 10</span>** (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html)
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The media missed ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> our Earth observation instruments. </span>

**Climate change denial is complicit with the rejection of modern science – critics of social construction are risking billions of lives**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berube, ’11</span>** [Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature and Director of the Institute for the Arts and Humanities at Pennsylvania State University, where he teaches cultural studies and American literature, “The Science Wars Redux,” http://www.democracyjournal.org/pdf/19/BERUBE.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">But what of Sokal’s ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">even Heisenberg himself would be certain. </span>

**Extremist abdication of science creates the conditions for global conflict – allows the religious right to cause extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris 04</span>** – (Sam, Co-Founder and CEO of <span style="color: black;">Project Reason</span>, a nonprofit foundation devoted to spreading scientific knowledge and secular values in society. He received a degree in philosophy from Stanford University and a Ph.D. in neuroscience from //The End of Faith//, p. 19-20 RB)

<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Our world is fast ...source of violence in our history?</span>

**Only verifiable scientific methods can prevent extinction – Alternative epistemologies refuse to accept the same falsifiable review our evidence goes through – disproves alternative methodologies which destroy academic debate**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coyne, 06</span>** – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp.Emeryville,CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)

<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Supernatural forces ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span>

**Climate change denial is an example of institutional racism – policymakers consistently ignore the question of emissions to maintain existing racial hierarchies – instead of focusing on individual environmental policies we must focus our discussion on the instutitions**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mandell 2008</span>**
MANDELL Dir of the Champlain...<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, capitalist ruling class." n52</span>

**You have an ethical obligation to reject racism.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif;">MEMMI </span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif;">2000</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against .... True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WE WILL AFFIRM THE RESOLUTION AS A PROCESS TO DEVELOP A CIVICLY ENGAGED APPROACH TOWARDS THE CRITICAL EXAMINATION OF UNITED STATES SPACE POLICY AND THEREFORE DEFEND:</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PLAN – THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD LAUNCH THE DEEP SPACE CLIMATE OBSERVATORY. </span>**


**Contention 2 is Democratic Politics**

**The affirmative is key to create a more genuine politics – The refusal to fund DSCOVR represents a failure of the democratic process – climate change denial has closed out the capacity of citizen participation via the refusal to engage in science**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilholt 2006 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Torsten, assistant professor at the Philosophy Department of Bielefeld University, Scientific Autonomy and Planned Research: The Case of Space Science, Poiesis and Praxis 4 (4), 2006, 253-265. http://phillister.ub.uni-bielefeld.de/index.php/deliver/index/p/646/v/published/k/fulltext/f/spacescience.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A second argument... to rest on yet another argument.</span>

**The Environment is a net benefit to our politics – Only our position vis-à-vis the state can change the terms of environmental debates and ensure effective green politics. Civic engagement is the foundation of change**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dryzek professor of poli sci ’96 </span>**– John, Democracy and the Environment p. 120-1
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Beyond Rejection </span>The answer ...are formulated and implemented.

**Engagement in space policy solves your science bad turns – allows us to question power.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Valentino 1999 </span>**[Mattio, Information, Technical Writing, Knowledge and Power: A Case Study of NASA's Cassini Project, Journal of Computer Documentation February 1999/Vol. 23, No. 1 (Peer reviewed), MA in Professional Communications from Clemson]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In layperson's terms, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">if you... more than a sharpened cynical wit</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span>

**Public engagement on scientific politics checks the failure of elitism – Our participation in debates over the conclusion of experts checks back elitism and ensures science is used for purposes that only benefit society as a whole**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Evans and Plows, ’07</span>** [Robert and Alexander, Social Studies of Science, Sage publications “Listening without Prejudice? Re-Discovering the Value of the Disinterested Citizen,” JSTOR]
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Accepting activists as... affected by them.27 </span>

==Glenbrooks - Climate Denial Aff== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Racial Contract is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract3

Nationally, within these racial polities, ...intracontinental racial exploitation.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BARDNT</span> Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1991</span>
Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge
to White America; p.31-33
Racism can be expressed... see this power at work.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CFR 9/25/11</span> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special cAorrespondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-apthe_americanallergyto_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader
NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked ... protect the habitat that sustains us."

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mooney ’11</span>, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial)
They’re the conservative... blogs serve to fan the flames.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Climate denial has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding crucial earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests</span>
Patrick <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gleick</span> 8/31/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/ [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]
By pretending that the science... debate by trying to discredit the science.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The effects of global warming strike at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an obligation to these populations</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Minority Rights Groups International April 2008</span> http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf
[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]
Climate change is just beginning t...responsibility for this than any other nation.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The consequences of this discrimination is equivalent to an ongoing genocide – climate deniers risk the lives of hundreds of millions</span>
Clive <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamilton</span> November, 16th <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span> Hamilton: Denying the coming global holocaust http://www.crikey.com.au/2009/11/16/hamilton-denying-the-coming-climate-holocaust/ [Professor of Public Ethics at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (CAPPE)[1] and the Vice-Chancellor's Chair in Public Ethics at Charles Sturt University.[2] He is the Founder and former Executive Director of the The Australia Institute. Overseas Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholar and completed his Doctorate at the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex. Senior Visiting Fellow of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of Yale University. Professor at Oxford.]
Climate sceptics resent ...f we do nothing they will die.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">These systematic harms of structural violence must come before linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abu-Jamal 98</span> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)
We live, equally immersed, a..., throughout the world. [Gilligan, p. 196]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MEMMI</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>
Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against ...ut the stakes are irresistible.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As a stance against instutitional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Michael and I advocate the following: </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its earth observation capabilities. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The current struggle against global warming represents the invisibility of race at its finest – the environmental movement has exemplified modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive</span>
Tim <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/ [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]
But as troubling as ... and their concerns, but is to weaken the fight for survival.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MANDELL</span> Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k8</span> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]
[*297] Fear of eroding ... capitalist ruling class." n52

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dialogue and communication matters – connecting the risks of climate change to issues of social justice is critical to connect to new constituencies </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 14-16 Mkoo)
The relationship between the .. message delivery and toward dialogue and engagement.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This shifts the conditions of the debate – current focus in relation to climate change has only dealt with its </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 124-127 Mkoo)
The emerging climate-justice ...human rights, and social justice.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A racialized discussion of key, traditional technical strategies of risk calculus are embedded within justifications of white supremacy and fail to mobilize action</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 130 Mkoo)
Risk communication research ...We summarize the lessons learned from both

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It’s not a question of solvency, but one of exposition – we must constantly discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gore, ’11</span> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]
Gore: Yeah if Michael... get that out there, absolutely.

==MBA - Maritime Domain Awareness Aff== 
Contention 1 is Grand Strategy 2.0

<span class="cite">US maritime strategy is collapsing now from budget cuts and a weaker fleet – the impact is global instability – US naval power is the proximate check on global conflict escalation</span>
<span class="cite">Whiteneck and Clark, ’11</span> [Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02|Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296]]</span>, SM]

In light of global economic and strategic realities…<span class="underline"> it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

MDA cements global cooperation and creates global partnerships over naval security – that allows the US to cooperatively address maritime security
<span class="cite">Truver, ’11</span> [Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, <span style="color: blue;">http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/</span>, Accessed 11/23/11]
A GLOBAL FOCUS IS NEEDED, TOO <span class="underline">From the US perspective… transnational threats and securing peaceful use of the maritime commons.</span>”
||   ||   ||   ||
Cooperation is the lynchpin of effective naval power in a world of budget cuts
<span class="underline">Moore 10 [Charles C. Moore, Naval Aviator, Western Pacific Experience, has a Masters from the US Army War College and Georgetown, currently commanding office at the Naval Air Station in Meridian. "Revitalizing the Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, 2007, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/2011summer/Moore.pdf]</span>
Summary The Cooperative Strategy remains a relevant foundational strategy document. …<span class="underline"> these crucial decisions being made by others.</span>

<span class="cite">Increased economic pressures and growing deficits mean US global retrenchment is inevitable</span>
<span class="cite">Mandelbaum, ’10</span> [Michael Mandelbaum is the Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, PhD from Harvard Foreign Affairs. May/June 2010, “Overpowered?”, SM]
Whatever the quality of the analysis underlying it, however, Preble's vision of a more modest U.S. foreign policy, which Matlock and Gallarotti share, is destined to be adopted. <span class="underline">The United States will do less</span>, perhaps much less, <span class="underline">beyond its borders in the next two decades than it has in the last two</span>. This <span class="underline">retrenchment …</span> consequences of the United States' having too little of it.

US strategic retrenchment is inevitable and Global naval cooperation is critical to manage it – allows to manage global stability in a world without a global US presence and avoiding the flaws of offshore balancing by maintaining US influence
<span class="cite">Hoffman, ’08</span> [November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, SM]

<span class="underline">Our maritime forces have to be designed to support an overall … bind them to an international system and a set of rules that benefit all</span>.”

Disengagement causes great power nuclear conflict - security breakdowns.
<span class="cite">Monteiro 2012 </span>
Nuno M., Assistant professor of Political Science at Yale University, Unrest Assured, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Unrest_Assured.pdf]]</span>
In sum, <span class="underline">disengagement opens the door to regional competition… as well as in Europe and the Middle East</span>.

Contention 2 is Sea Security

Space based MDA capabilities key to check terror on the sea
Allan, 11.
John W, Vice President, Sales & Marketing at exactEarth Ltd (Current), <span style="background-color: white;">exactEarth have a constellation of satellites that monitor and track vessels around the world using AIS. Its game changing technology for both the Operational Maritime and Defence and Intelligence communities.</span> “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security”, 3/23, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.geospatialworld.net/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=21883]]</span>, Accessed 11/23/11, Scott
Few security commentators would dispute <span class="underline">the geospatial …</span> quantum leap forward in maritime surveillance capability.

Space is the foundation of adequate anti-terror MDA capabilities and intelligence is key
<span class="cite">Singh 10</span> (Jaswinder, Master of Science in Defense Analysis, Indian Navy Captain, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in Territorial Sea” 12/25 Mkoo)
In today’s information age, where information travels …<span class="underline"> interdict small boat heading for terror attacks in these waters. </span>

Maritime terrorism highly likely – acquisition is feasible and they’ll attack ports
<span class="cite">Konkel 05</span> (Todd, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 2005, “Container Security: Preventimng a Nuclear Catastrophe.” irps.ucsd.edu/assets/004/5372.pdf Mkoo)
<span class="underline">A fundamental factor contributing to the threat of a container-based …</span> years to improve security at all 361 U.S. seaports. 2

Collapses the economy – global embargo
Flynn, 3. (Stephen, Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.), Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3-20-03, “The Fragile state of container security,” Testimony before the Senate, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]]</span> Mkoo)
A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman …<span class="underline">as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade. </span>

Global nuclear war
<span class="cite">Harris and Burrows ‘9</span> PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[@http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]

Of course, the report encompasses more than economics … both <span class="underline">within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

Independently, retaliation from a terrorist attack leads to nuclear war
<span class="cite">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online Mkoo)
A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear …<span class="underline">This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint. </span>

Terrorists will attack the Strait of Malacca now, impact is global oil shocks, trade collapse, Japan, South Korea, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and US economic collapse
<span class="cite">Luft and Korin 4</span> (Gal, Exec Dir, Institute for Analysis of Global Security and Anne, Dir, Policy and Strategic Planning, IAGS, Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec, Lexis, [[http://www.jmhinternational.com/news/news/selectednews/files/2004/20041201_20041101_ForeignAffairs_TerrorismGoesToSea.pdf]] Mkoo)
<span class="underline">Pirates and Islamist terrorist groups have long operated … but that of the United States as well.</span>

South Korean economic decline causes global nuclear war
<span class="cite">Richardson 06</span> (Corey, Asia Times writer, “South Korea Must Choose Sides,” 9/9/06 [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]] Mkoo)
<span class="underline">A Korea faced with an economic dilemma … Koguryo dispute between Korea and China. </span>

Japanese economic decline causes hyper-nationalism and nuclear war with China
<span class="cite">Elliott 02</span> (Larry, The Guardian writer, “Finance: Defenceless Japan awaits Typhoon,” 2/11/02 [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/money/2002/feb/11/business.globalrecession]] Mkoo)
Even so, <span class="underline">the … bigger</span> (and nuclear) <span class="underline">neighbour.</span>


Plan
The United States federal government should substantially increase its space based Maritime Domain Awareness capabilities beyond the earth’s mesosphere.


Contention 3 is Solvency
MDA satellites are critical to allow for global awareness – promotes global cooperation
<span class="cite">Earles, 10</span>
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11
The potential for international collaboration … system characteristics will be developed in this and the subsequent articles in this series.


Satellites AIS systems solve technical problems with MSSIS now – international collaborative effort for MDA that exists now.
<span class="cite">Earles, 10.</span>
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11
<span class="underline">The Maritime Safety and Security Information …</span>, however, as seen in Figure 2.

==Emory - Maritime Domain Awareness== 
**1AC Emory – Plan Text**
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its space based Maritime Domain Awareness capabilities beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**

**1AC Sea Security**
**Space based MDA capabilities key to check terror on the sea**
**Allan, 11.**
John W, Vice President, Sales & Marketing at exactEarth Ltd (Current), exactEarth have a constellation of satellites that monitor and track vessels around the world using AIS. Its game changing technology for both the Operational Maritime and Defence and Intelligence communities. “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security”, 3/23, http://www.geospatialworld.net/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=21883, Accessed 11/23/11, Scott
Few security commentators … in maritime surveillance capability.

**That’s the foundation of adequate anti-terror MDA capabilities – the resulting satellites can make maritime terrorism a nonfactor**
**Singh 10** (Jaswinder, Master of Science in Defense Analysis, Indian Navy Captain, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in Territorial Sea” 12/25 Mkoo)
In today’s information age, where …attacks in these waters.

**Maritime terrorism short circuits your defense and makes nuclear terrorism possible – port sections are uniquely vulnerable for exploitation by containers**
**Konkel 05** (Todd, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 2005, “Container Security: Preventimng a Nuclear Catastrophe.” irps.ucsd.edu/assets/004/5372.pdf Mkoo)
A fundamental factor … improve security at all 361 U.S. seaports. 2

**Port attack collapses the economy – political reaction ends global maritime trade**
**Flynn, 3.** (Stephen, Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.), Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3-20-03, “The Fragile state of container security,” Testimony before the Senate, http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730 Mkoo)
A year later I joined … make up international trade.

**Economic collapse causes global nuclear war.**
**Merlini 2011**
Cesare, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute of International Affairs & fellow @ brookings, A Post Secular World, Survival, 53: 2, 117 — 130, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly opposed … rising influence and power.

**Retaliation and tension from the terrorist attack would escalate to nuclear war with Russia and China**
**Ayson 10** (Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online Mkoo)
A terrorist nuclear … chances of nuclear restraint.

**1AC Cooperation**
**MDA satellites are critical to allow for global awareness – promotes global cooperation**
**Earles, 10**
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf, Accessed 11/8/11, Scott
The potential for international … subsequent articles in this series.

**Specifically space based MDA creates the common operating picture that allows cooperation over maritime and space assets to thrive**
**Thomas, 10** (Guy, “International Collaboration is THE Silver Bullet: Global Space Partnership – Collaboration in Space for International Global Maritime Awareness (C-SIGMA).” 3/30/10 Mkoo)
Prologue: There is no silver .. restore that balance here.

**Space cooperation is key to prevent extinction**
**Hays 10** (Peter, PhD, Director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, Visiting Fellow, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University, senior policy analyst supporting the plans and programs division of the National Security Space Office, retired Lieutenant Colonel, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html)
Other impediments to …improve our odds for survival.

**Scenario 1 is Naval Power**

**US maritime strategy is collapsing now from budget cuts and a weaker fleet – the impact is global instability – US naval power is the proximate check on global conflict escalation**
**Whiteneck and Clark, ’11** [Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296, SM]

In light of global economic … will indeed be at a “tipping point.”

**MDA cements global cooperation and creates global partnerships over naval security – that allows the US to cooperatively address maritime security**
**Truver, ’11** [Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/, Accessed 11/23/11]
A GLOBAL FOCUS IS NEEDED, …peaceful use of the maritime commons.”

**Cooperation is the lynchpin of effective naval power in a world of budget cuts**
**Moore 10** [Charles C. Moore, Naval Aviator, Western Pacific Experience, has a Masters from the US Army War College and Georgetown, currently commanding office at the Naval Air Station in Meridian. "Revitalizing the Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, 2007, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/2011summer/Moore.pdf]
Summary The Cooperative …decisions being made by others.

**US strategic retrenchment is inevitable and Global naval cooperation is critical to manage it – allows to manage global stability in a world without a global US presence and avoiding the flaws of offshore balancing by maintaining US influence**
**Hoffman, ’08** [November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, SM]

Our maritime forces have to be …a set of rules that benefit all.”

**Disengagement causes great power nuclear conflict - security breakdowns.**
**Monteiro 2012**
Nuno M., Assistant professor of Political Science at Yale University, Unrest Assured, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Unrest_Assured.pdf
In sum, disengagement opens …in Europe and the Middle East.

**Scenario 2 is South China Sea**

**US MDA satellite capability is key to multilateral ASEAN engagement in the South China Sea specifically**
**Arthur et al 2007**
Stanley R., Retired admiral, written with the Lexington Institute’s Naval Strike forum which included many PhDs and retired high ranking naval officials, Securing the Seas: The Logic of Maritime Domain Awareness, Lexington Institute, http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/library/resources/documents/Defense/the-logic-of-maritime-domain-awareness.pdf
One region where arrangements … the Western Pacific and Indian Ocean.

**US built MDA solves maritime energy nationalism and war – cooperative framework.**
**Collins and Erickson 2011**
Gabe and Andrew S., Associate Professor in the Strategic Research Department at the U.S. Naval War College and a founding member of the department’s China Maritime Studies Institute (CMSI), Energy Nationalism Goes to Sea in Asia, the national bureau of asian research nbr special report #31 | september 2011, http://www.nbr.org/publications/specialreport/pdf/Free/SR31_EnergySecurity.pdf
Maritime energy nationalism is a …third-party court system.

**South China Sea engagement solves relations and Chinese aggression in the long term.**
**Heydarian 2011**
Richard Javad, Foreign Policy in Focus contributor, The South China Sea Conundrum – Analysis, September 2011, http://www.eurasiareview.com/09092011-the-south-china-sea-conundrum-analysis/
The dynamics of U.S.-China …United States and China.

**South China Sea war escalates, causes extinction. Only relations solves.**
**Wittner 11-30-11**
Lawrence, Professor of History emeritus at SUNY/Albany, Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-war-china_b_1116556.html
While nuclear weapons exist, … encourage these policies.

==Harvard - Earth Observation Aff== 

Plan – The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its Earth Observing Capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">All status quo and future Earth Observation will fail – data gaps, budget constraints, and bureaucracy problems has eviscerated US observation capabilities</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cecil 1/24/12</span> (DeWayne, AMS Commission on the Weather &Climate Enterprise, “Town hall Meeting: Impending Earth Observations Network Gap.” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://annual.ametsoc.org/2012/index.cfm/programs-and-events/town-hall-meetings/town-hall-meeting-impending-earth-observations-network-gap1/]]</span> Koo)
<span class="underline">A perilous gap in Earth ….</span>the challenges we face.

Advantage 1 – Environmental Security
Warming is anthropogenic and inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span> (Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)
Over the 20th century, …<span class="underline">linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">More accurate climate observations are the only means to properly measure and adapt to warming – space is key </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Lewis et al ’10</span> [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span>]
This is a question of priorities…<span class="underline"> only be done from space.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only increased climate data can solve – information key to policy</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Brown '8</span>Oli is the Programme Manager with the International Institute for Sustainable Development (Forced Migration Review, "The Numbers Game", October 2008, Issue 31)
Estimates of the potential …<span class="underline"> of future forced migration.</span>

<span class="underline">Scenario 1 is adaptations</span>
Data is key to make large scale and effective adaptation strategies, this stops disease, biodiversity loss, and agricultural crisis
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stutz, ’09</span> [26 May 2009, Bruce Stutz writes on science, nature, and the environment. A former editor-in-chief of Natural History, he is a contributing editor to OnEarth. He has written for the New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, Discover and Audubon. He is the author of Natural Lives, Modern Times and Chasing Spring, An American Journey Through a Changing Season. “Adaptation Emerges as Key Part of Any Climate Change Plan”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2156]]</span>]

<span class="underline">With nations in the industrialized … a possible range of changes.</span>

US adaptation strategies get modeled globally
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tussing 2008 [</span>Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]
<span class="underline">In emulation of the American effort…</span> solely in the camp of the civil authorities.

Diseases cause extinction via mutation – Nobel prize winning scientists confirm the risk
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Greger 08</span> (Michael, M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111)
Senate Majority Leader Frist describes the recent slew of emerging diseases in almost biblical terms: “<span class="underline">All of these [new diseases] were advance patrols of a great army that is preparing way out of sight</span>.”3146 Scientists …<span class="underline"> whistled whilst passing a graveyard</span>.”3154

Agricultural losses lead to global nuclear war
Calvin, ‘02 (William H, Univ Washington, A Brain For All Seasons, http://faculty.washington.edu/wcalvin/BrainForAllSeasons/NAcoast.htm)
The population-crash … from the North Atlantic.

Biodiversity loss causes extinction – their resiliency arguments and their defense is only possible with diverse ecosystems
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young</span>, PhD coastal marine ecology, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span> [Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]]
<span class="underline">Different species</span> within ecosystems <span class="underline">…biodiversity maintains this service.</span>

Scenario 2 is war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Environmental stress is the only cause of conflict in the future – massive migration now- only adaptation solves</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conely and Werz '12</span> Laura is a graduate student in international relations at the University of Chicago and a Research Associate for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress …. all aspects of human development.

Lack of effective climate data means US power fails to respond to these – decapitates effective interventionism to check
Rogers and Gulledge 2010 [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]
<span class="underline">Climate change will likely … prepared to meet future challenges. </span>

Climate crises cause global nuclear war – multiple scenarios in every region of the world
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz and Randall, 2004 </span>(Peter, CIA consultant and former head of planning at Royal Dutch/Shell Group, and Doug of the California-based Global Business Network; “An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security”; Commissioned by the U.S. Pentagon; http://www.kelber.de/medien/doks/Pentagon-Studie%20Klimawandel.pdf)
<span class="underline">As famine, disease, and weather-related ….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Israel, Iran, Egypt, and North Korea</span>.



Advantage 2 – Maritime Security
Observation capabilities are failing in the maritime domain – satellite observation is key to the common operating picture
Allan, 11.
John W, Vice President, Sales & Marketing at exactEarth Ltd (Current), <span style="background-color: white;">exactEarth have a constellation of satellites that monitor and track vessels around the world using AIS. Its game changing technology for both the Operational Maritime and Defence and Intelligence communities.</span> “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security”, 3/23, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.geospatialworld.net/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=21883]]</span>, Accessed 11/23/11, Scott
Few security commentators … in maritime surveillance capability.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space based earth observation fosters the international cooperation that’s necessary to create naval partnerships and effective maritime domain awanress</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Earles 11</span>
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11, Scott
<span class="underline">With greater emphasis …</span> subsequent articles in this series

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically space based MDA creates the common operating picture that allows cooperation over maritime and space assets to thrive</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomas, 10</span> (Guy, “International Collaboration is THE Silver Bullet: Global Space Partnership – Collaboration in Space for International Global Maritime Awareness (C-SIGMA).” 3/30/10 )
Prologue: There is no silver bullet, not now, nor in the foreseeable future, but <span class="underline">all maritime nations of the world</span>, <span class="underline">working together, can make the seas much safer and more secure. One of the primary steps …</span> to restore that balance here.

This cooperative MDA is key to solving all types of irregular threats – piracy, trade, terrorism, proliferation, and drugs
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Truver, ’11</span> [Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, <span style="color: blue;">http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/</span>, Accessed 11/23/11]
THE IMPERATIVE OF UNDERSTANDING …. and safety (see figure 3).

Improved MDA key to an anti-terrorism alliance in the western hemisphere
Minta, 6.
USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT MARITIME DOMAIN AWARENESS: A WESTERN HEMISPHERE IMPERATIVE by Commander James L. Minta United States Navy Commander Robert L. Wohlschlegel Project Adviser [[http://homelandsecuritygroup.info/marsec/maritime-domain-awareness.pdf]], Accessed 12/15/11, Scott
<span class="underline">Developing a more … our maritime defense</span>.

Independently solves WMD terror
Minta, 6.
USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT MARITIME DOMAIN AWARENESS: A WESTERN HEMISPHERE IMPERATIVE by Commander James L. Minta United States Navy Commander Robert L. Wohlschlegel Project Adviser [[http://homelandsecuritygroup.info/marsec/maritime-domain-awareness.pdf]], Accessed 12/15/11, Scott
This project … a secure maritime domain.

Terror attack causes retaliation and extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online )
A terrorist nuclear attack, …<span class="underline">chances of nuclear restraint. </span>

And the transparency facilitated by space based observation independently stops port terrorism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singh 10</span> (Jaswinder, Master of Science in Defense Analysis, Indian Navy Captain, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in Territorial Sea” 12/25 )
In today’s information age…<span class="underline"> terror attacks in these waters. </span>

Port terrorism uniquely likely – your impact defense doesn’t apply
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Konkel 05</span> (Todd, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 2005, “Container Security: Preventimng a Nuclear Catastrophe.” irps.ucsd.edu/assets/004/5372.pdf )
<span class="underline">A fundamental factor contributing …</span>at all 361 U.S. seaports. 2

Collapses the economy and all trade – self imposed global embargo
Flynn, 3. (Stephen, Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.), Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3-20-03, “The Fragile state of container security,” Testimony before the Senate, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]]</span> )
A year later I joined with …<span class="underline"> make up international trade. </span>

Global nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merlini 2011 </span>
Cesare, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute of International Affairs & fellow @ brookings, A Post Secular World, Survival, 53: 2, 117 — 130, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf
Two neatly opposed scenarios …<span class="underline"> rising influence and power</span>.

Free trade solves all wars – economic interdependence makes it a risky option
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Griswold</span>, Associate Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, ‘<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">98</span> (Daniel, December 31, “Peace On Earth, Free Trade For Men,” CATO Institute Daily, http://www.cato.org/dailys/12-31-98.html)
Advocates of free … borders, armies will."

Those wars ecalate
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Copley News Service</span> 12-1-<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">99</span>
For decades, many children in … They should be celebrating it.






=Negative Strategies= 

===Greenhill Round Robin=== 
**What we went for / 2NRs:**

**Rd 2 - Fiscal Framework DA and Case**
**Rd 3 - Fiscal Framework DA and Case**
**Rd 5 - Warming Good (C02)**
**Rd 7 - Extra T**

===**Greenhill Tournament**=== 
=====**Round 2 vs. University of Chicago Lab ES (Asteroids)**===== 
1NC –
Fiscal Framework DA
ESA CP
Executive Order CP (Warming NB)
Race K
Case Defense

2NR – XO CP (Conditionality 2AR)

=====Round 3 vs. Carrolton VU (SPS)===== 
1NC -
Fiscal Framework DA
Anchor Tenant CP
Race K
T - Development =/= Weapons
Case Defense

2NR - Race K

=====Round 5 vs. Dulles HT (AIS and SAR Sats)===== 
1NC -
ESA CP
Race K
Super Committee DA
Case Def
Biodiversity Impact Turns

2NR - Super Committee DA and Case

=====Doubles vs. Marquette CT (Solar Sails)===== 
1NC -
T Beyond the Mesosphere
Super Committee DA
Land Rights + Solar Shield CP
Case Defense

2NR - Super Committee DA + Case

===Georgetown Tournament=== 
=====Round 1 vs. National Cathedral SS (DSCOVR)===== 
1NC -
T ASPEC
T Substantial
Super Committee DA
Executive Order CP
Ukraine CP
Case Defense

2NR - Ukraine CP, Super Committee DA, Case

=====Round 3 vs. Glenbrook North YT (Space lasers and Kinetic weapons)===== 
1NC -
Giant CP
- Hedging Strategy
- Code of Conduct
- SSA Verification
- Engage China in ITAR and ISS
- Stop X-37B and HTV 2 Development
- No first strike vs. China
Super Committee DA
Weaponization + Legitimacy DA
Case Defense

2NR - Giant CP, Weaponization + Legitimacy DA, T Increase (1NR)

=====Round 5 vs. Carrolton DS (SPS)===== 
1NC -
T Development =/= Weapons
Super Committee DA
Anchor Tenant CP
Case Defense

2NR - Super Committee DA, Case

===Bronx Tournament=== 
=====Round 2 vs. St Vincent de Paul FS (Cosmic Egg)===== 
1NC -
Framework (USFG)
DnG PIC out of Plan Text
Race K
Development Turns

2NR - Race K

=====Round 4 vs. River Hill DH (ORS)===== 
1NC -
T ASPEC
XO CP
ORS NATO Coalition CP
Spending DA
Case Defense

2NR - ORS NATO Coalition CP, T Increase (1NR)

=====Round 5 vs. Baltimore City College MN (Space as a common)===== 
1NC -
Race + Patriarchy K
Development PIC
Cap Good

2NR - Race + Patriarchy K

===Capitol Classic Tournament=== 
=====Round 2 vs. McDonogh MR (DSCOVR)===== 
1NC -
T ASPEC
T Substantial
Race K
Case Defense

2NR - Race K

=====Round 3 vs. National Cathedral SS (DSCOVR)===== 
1NC -
T ASPEC
T Substantial
Executive Order CP (Politics NB)
Payroll Tax Cuts Ptix DA
Giant CP
- Military consultation and Navy intervention with India and Pakistan
- Develop and Deploy CHiME
- Sign the UNCLOF
Frontier K
Case Defense

2NR - Payroll Ptix DA, Giant CP (2AR Conditionality)

=====Round 6 vs. River Hill SS (Non Topical Aff)===== 
Framework
Vulgar Marxism K
Race Talk Turns

2NR - Framework

=====Octas vs. Bishop Guertin ID (UFO's)===== 
Framework
Race K
Case Defense

2NR - Framework

===Glenbrooks Tournament=== 
=====Round 1 vs. Woodward NS (TSats)===== 
Payroll Politics DA
Executive Order CP
T Human Presence
Race K
Case Defense

2NR - Payroll Politics DA, Case

=====Round 4 vs. Stratford JS (ORS)===== 
Payroll Politics DA
Executive Order CP
Race K
C-ORS CP
Legitimacy DA
T Human PResence
Case Defense

2NR - C-ORS CP, Legitimacy DA

=====Round 5 vs. Pine Crest MR (ORS)===== 
Payroll Politics DA
Executive Order CP
Race K
C-ORS CP
Legitimacy DA
T Human Presence
Case Defense

2NR - C-ORS CP, Legitimacy DA

=====Round 7 vs. Henry W. Grady CD (SUSTAIN)===== 
Executive Order CP
Payroll Politics DA
Super Committee DA
Giant CP
- Nuclear forensics
- Bioterror
- X-51 Wave Rider
Case Defense

2NR - Executive Order CP, Payroll Politcs DA

===Ohio Valley Tournament=== 
=====Round 2 vs. American History JB (DSCOVR)===== 
T Substantial
Payroll Ptix DA
CHiME CP
UN CP
UN Cred DA
Multilateralism DA
Race K
Case Defense

2NR - CHiME CP, Payroll Ptix DA

=====Round 4 vs. duPont Manuel ND (Occupy)===== 
T Human Presence
Race K
Case Turns and Links

2NR - Race K and Case Turns

=====Round 6 vs. Westminster LM (SPS)===== 
Payroll Ptix DA
T Human Presence
Anchor Tenant CP
United Nations CP
Case Defense

2NR - UN CP

===Montgomery Bell Academy Tournament=== 
=====Round 3 vs. Kinkaid MR (Art Aesthetic)===== 
Race K
T Human Presence
Case

2NR - Race K

=====Round 5 vs. PineCrest MR (Space Radar)===== 
Race K
T Human Presence
Advantage CP (F22 CP, International GLADIS)
UN CP
India Politics DA
Case Defense

2NR - India Politics DA, Case Defense

=====Octas vs. Pace Academy ES (ORS)===== 
C-ORS CP
Legitimacy DA
T Human Presence
India Politics DA
Advantage Cp
Case Defense


=Negative Evidence= 
==Topicality== 
===Extra Topicality (SSA+Space Guard)=== 
Interpretation: The term “beyond” is specific to looking __outwards.__ Excludes things done inside the earth’s mesosphere.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vega Space 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.vegaspace.eu/newsroom/in_focus/space_exploration.aspx]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">VEGA is one of the leading names in the European Space sector, working with Space agencies, satellite operators and manufacturers worldwide.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space exploration missions are about looking outward from Earth towards the Sun, other planets the universe and beyond.</span>

Violation: The affirmative creates a Space Corps.

Extra T is a voting issue

a) Removes ALL aff boundaries and justifies super-plans with planks to get out of every disad. Debate becomes impossible – unpredictable advs, addons, plan texts working
b) Trivializes the resolution, corrupting all topic education.
c) Promotes an unrealistic form of advocacy skills. Policy makers can’t just wish away their limitations with a magical mandate.

d) Topical version of the aff: The United States federal government should substantially increase its civil space situational awareness.

====T Development =/= Weaponization (SPS)==== 
**A) Interpretation**

<span class="Underline">**The development of space must contribute directly to the prosperity of life on earth and must be the peaceful employment of humankind’s shared assets**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Vuillemot****01**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Aerospace Engineering, Masters of Science Computational Fluid Dynamics, Research Assistant; Professor Uri Shumlak • NASA Graduate Fellow, Masters of Science Technical Japanese (Ward W., “Japan’s Space Development: Past, Present, and Future”, [[http://web.mac.com/wwv/docs/japanese.space.development.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To begin, we will examine how its members perceive the development of outer space ….. </span><span class="Underline">outer space through mankind’s shared assets.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” [11]</span>

B) Violation – SPS is a weapon
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rako 2008</span>
Paul, Senior Analog Applications Engineer, Solar power in space, a really stupid idea, 7-25-2008, http://www.edn.com/blog/Anablog/38434-Solar_power_in_space_a_really_stupid_idea.php
OK, still doubtful that NASA, ……
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the power would cost not 10, not 100 not 1000 but about 10,000 times more than terrestrial based power of any form</span>.


<span class="Underline">**C) Voter**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Limits** – The topic is already massive if we just allow for peaceful development if the topic means ‘do anything in space’ we would have to be ready to debate all the different aspects of military space presence as well</span>

<span class="Underline">**Ground** – Military space requires radically different DAs and really makes the debate about any aspect of US military policy on the ground or beyond the mesosphere, we essentially have to have DAs for two topics or rely heavily on arguments so generic that they link to both neither option results in effective education or balanced debates</span>


==Disadvantages== 
===India Politics DA=== 

**India’s Congress party will win the February elections in Uttar Pradesh now**
**Rediff, 1-4-2012**
(“Inhouse survey puts Congress-RLD ahead, BJP close 2nd"
http://www.rediff.com/news/slide-show/slide-show-1-congress-will-emerge-as-the-winner-in-up-polls-says-survey/20120104.htm)
The combine of … says the survey.

**India is outcompeting the US now**
**Rediff Business, 1-11-2010**
(“India's aerospace industry to boost economy” http://business.rediff.com/column/2010/jan/11/guest-india-aerospace-industry-to-boost-economy.htm)
The aerospace industry …absorb massive investments.

**If the US out-competes India, it will spark anti-Americanism**
**Wimbush, 2006**
(S. Enders, Sr VP of Hudson Institute, “STRATEGIC INDIA”, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/StrategicIndia-Final-Wimbush.pdf)
Under this scenario… worsen U.S.-Indian ties.

**Opposition parties will seize the plan to drum up anti-Americanism and garner votes with Indian Muslims**
**Shenoy 2008**
(T. V. R., Researcher, Journalist-India First Foundation, “Congress has Left in debt trap” http://www.rediff.com/cms/print.jsp?docpath=/news/2008/mar/18flip.htm)
The Left Front …displease at this moment.

**Indian Muslims key to the Uttar Pradesh elections**
**Wall Street Journal 1-4-2012**
(Note: the abbreviation UP in this evidence refers to Uttar Pradesh, “Politics Journal: Parties Vie for Upper Hand in Uttar Pradesh”
http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2012/01/04/politics-journal-parties-vie-for-upper-hand-in-uttar-pradesh/)
Guess who the … than 50 seats on its own.

**Congress Party victory in the Uttar Pradesh election is key to Kashmir peace**
**Kashmir Times, 12-9-2011 (LexisNexis)**
UPA government's preoccupation … of its future leadership.

**The Kashmir conflict will escalate to nuclear war and would draw in the US and China**
**Margolis, 2010**
(Eric, International Author and Policy Analyst for New York Time and International Herald Tribune, “Kashmir: Three Minutes From Nuclear War”,
http://www.lewrockwell.com/margolis/margolis206.html)
In my first book… the entire globe.

===Fiscal Framework Moody's Credit Spending DA=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Debt Deal fiscal framework will succeed now and create a compromise of spending cuts– multiple structural factors guarantee it</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ragusa, ’9-8</span>** [9/8/11, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/author/jordanragusa/|Jordan Ragusa]]</span>, “Reasons to be Optimistic about the Super Committee” , <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/09/08/reasons-to-be-optimistic-about-the-super-committee/]]</span>, SM]
The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction—a.k.a. the “super committee”—…… So those are some of my optimistic thoughts on the super committee.

**The plan breaks that framework – creates huge spending that strains the deficit**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hsu 9</span>**[Feng, Ph.D. and Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group, and Ken Cox, Ph.D. and Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There arelimited financial resources from the U.S. government, which is now struggling with unprecedented high budget deficit and</span> is confronted with extremely <span style="font-size: 10pt;">costly ongoing wars</span>. So <span style="font-size: 10pt;">it is</span> nearly <span style="font-size: 10pt;">irresponsible to impose on the nation</span> and its people <span style="font-size: 10pt;">an Apollo-like, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">huge spending</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> lunar-based space exploration program</span>. There is neither significant (or short-term) science value nor space exploration and operation value in revisiting an earth-orbit destination that was explored by mankind four decades ago. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Given today's</span> decimated American <span style="font-size: 10pt;">economic condition</span>, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">we must adapt a</span> concurrent and comprehensive <span style="font-size: 10pt;">space exploration</span> and space development <span style="font-size: 10pt;">strategy that is</span> not only <span style="font-size: 10pt;">affordable</span> but can be mutually supported.

**The signal of a fiscal discipline framework has appeased Moody’s but they are watching to whether or not it will succeed – failure to curtail spending and maintain status quo plans for cuts triggers a downgrade**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Panchuk, ‘8-3</span>** [8-3-11, Kerri Panchuk, “Moody's affirms US triple-A rating, but risks remain”, [[http://www.housingwire.com/2011/08/03/moodys-affirms-us-triple-a-rating-but-risks-remain]], SM]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moody's</span> Investors Service (<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://finance.yahoo.com/q?s=MCO|MCO]]</span>: 27.04 -3.19%) <span style="font-size: 10pt;">confirmed the U.S. government's triple-A bond rating …… </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">this could affect the rating negatively</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">," Moody's said.</span>

**Further downgrades risks a spiral in interest rates that collapses investor confidence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Goldwein 8-11-2011** [</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marc, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, The Atlantic, Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">What are the consequences of further downgrades? ……. except with no one available to bail out the U.S. government</span>.

**That specifically collapses US economic leadership**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Raman 8-3-11** [</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Manikandan, International Business Times, U.S. Reaches Debt Deal: Is it Enough to Sustain AAA Rating?, http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/191564/20110803/us-debt-ceiling-spending-cuts-debt-deal-aaa-rating-barack-obama-president-s-p-fitch-moodys-treasury.htm]</span>
But <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the key question is whether the raising of the debt ceiling is enough to keep the country's AAA rating…… </span>further fiscal consolidation measures are not adopted in 2013 and the economic outlook deteriorates significantly.

**Economic leadership prevents nuclear war from economic collapse—leadership key to resilience**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mandelbaum 2005</span>** – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005
[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]
Although <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the spread of nuclear weapons, with the corresponding increase in the likelihood …… </span>A <span style="font-size: 10pt;">world without the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.</span>

**Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> [</span>Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of <span style="font-size: 10pt;">economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict.</span> ……. This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

===Space Weaponization DA=== 
====**1NC Shell**==== 
**Plan sparks an international arms race and is perceived as weaponization**
**Jakhu 10** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University(Dr. Ram , with Cesar JaramilloManaging Editor, Project Ploughshares, Phillip Baines (Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Canada),), John Seibert (Project Ploughshares), Dr. Jennifer Simmons (The Simmons Foundation), Dr. Ray Williamson (Secure World Foundation). “Space Security 2010.” Spacesecurity.org. August 2010. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. pp. 119-167. Accessed June 21, 2011.</span>

The security dynamics of protection and negation are closely related and, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">,,,,,, and can thereby reduce the number of actors with secure use of space</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan sparks asymmetric balancing causing global space weaponization, accidental nuclear wars and proliferation, debris that collapses the economy and space commerce – it also kills US-Sino relations, US-Russian relations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon, ’04 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[2004, Michael Krepon is a researcher for Stimson Center in Space Security and South Asia Programs “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, SM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If Rumsfeld’s plans to weaponize space are carried to fruition, …… </span>such as by trailing expensive US space weapons and satellites with cheap space mines.

====Defensive Link==== 

**Pursuing space dominance creates an arms race – even if the aff is legitimate**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens, 7</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – director of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, STATEMENT BY BEFORE THE NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS SUBCOMMITTEE HOUSE OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNNMENT REFORM COMMITTEE ON WEAPONIZING SPACE: IS CURRENT U.S. POLICY PROTECTION OUR SECURITY? MAY 23, [[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/HitchensTestimony.pdf]])</span>

Further, other responses to counter perceived space threats are possible, …… <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the U.S. emphasis on the exercise of “hard power” in space is threatening U.S. ability to use space as a “soft power” tool.</span>

===Super Committee DA=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Debt Deal Super Committee compromise coming now to create deficit reduction – multiple structural factors make it likely, but new partisan fights, specifically over lobbies, can derail it</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ragusa, ’9-8</span> [9/8/11, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/author/jordanragusa/|Jordan Ragusa]]</span>, “Reasons to be Optimistic about the Super Committee” , <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/09/08/reasons-to-be-optimistic-about-the-super-committee/]]</span>, SM]
The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction...<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. The question is </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">whether these forces are greater than the prior forces.</span> Stay tuned…

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan would spark that – any new additional spending has to go through the super committee process – guarantees partisan fights on finding cuts</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suderman, ‘8-17 </span>[<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/people/peter-suderman|Peter Suderman]]</span>, August 17, 2011, “<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/blog/2011/08/17/would-it-be-better-to-pull-the|Would It Be Better to Pull the Debt-Deal Trigger?]]</span>”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/blog/2011/08/17/would-it-be-better-to-pull-the]]</span>, SM]
In large part, that’s...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> members can both agree on will be tough enough as it is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space policy makes the magnitude of our link argument is __huge__ – finding funds for space policy creates fights – competing priorities make it difficult</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Handberg, 11</span> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]]</span>)
The US space program ...approach becomes your mantra.

Failure causes a depression
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ornstein 9/14</span>/11 [Norman, resident fellow at AEI, Deficit Panel Could Change Economic World, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/104137]]</span> jg]
Lachman is one of ... Don’t blow it.

Independently, failure to come up with a compromise destroys hegemony and causes global nuclear war – defense spending is key to deter China and Iran, protect sea lanes, solve terrorism and North Korean War
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon 9/13</span>/11 [Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative, The Future of National Defense and the U.S. Military Ten Years After 9/11, http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.aspx?rssid=LatestFromBrookings&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+BrookingsRSS%2Ftopfeeds%2FLatestFromBrookings+%28Brookings%3A+Latest+From+Brookings%29&utm_content=Google+Reader]
Most worrisome is the ...<span style="font-size: 10pt;">strategy for the United States</span>.

====2NC Overview==== 
They have conceded the laundry list of scenarios in the O’Hanlon evidence – Unchecked Chinese rise causes global nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walton 7</span><span style="color: black;"> – C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49</span>

Obviously, it ...great power alliances.


Perception of cuts kills heg, even if they don’t actually happen we won’t be able to recover.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Auslin 9/28/11</span>
Michael, resident scholar at AEI and former associate professor of history and senior research fellow at the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale, Guns, Butter, and Global Stability, http://www.aei.org/article/104205
In a way, we are... to the liberal international order.

Turns the case – means no lift capability for satellites.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scarborough 9/29/11</span>
Rowan, Report: Budget cuts would hollow out military, The Washington Times, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/sep/29/report-budget-cuts-would-leave-military-hollow/?page=all#pagebreak
A new congressional ... 100 of the 450 ICBMs now on alert.

Turns the second advantage – defense cuts means we won’t have the capacity to intervene anywhere for humanitarian and disaster response purposes
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">D</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">onelly, 9-13 </span>[Thomas Donelly, Director of the Center for Defense Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, “TESTIMONY: House Armed Services Committee,” September 13th 2011, http://www.aei.org/docLib/TDHASCTestimony13Sept2011.pdf]
Thank you, Mr. Chairman... find it harder to make it a very safe place.

====Uniqueness Wall==== 
__Compromise Now__
A) Bipartisan compromise is coming now – an ethic of compromise, pressure and committee expertise all guarantee it but __partisanship__ can derail it – that’s Ragusa – prefer our evidence – theirs cites __no__ warrants and is just hyperbole
B) __Pressure and momentum__ – however, the potential for partisanship can derail deficit reduction initiatives
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calmes, ‘9-12</span> [9/12/11, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/c/jackie_calmes/index.html?inline=nyt-per|Jackie Calmes]]</span>, Pressure Builds on Deficit Panel to ‘Go Big,’ Beyond Its Mandate, in Cuts, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/12/us/politics/12fiscal.html]]</span>, SM]
WASHINGTON — Led by ... that want to do something big.”

C) __Committee leadership__ – central members are focusing on a concrete solution, but are vulnerable to craving into ideological interests
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gregg, ‘9-12</span> [9/12/11, Judd Gregg, “Opinion: Potential great for deficit-reduction supercommittee”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/opinion/columnists/judd-gregg/180801-potential-great-for-the-super-committee]]</span>, SM]
Although its goal ... It is a Churchillian moment for them.

D) __Structural factors__ – they increase the likelihood of passage, but partisanship can still break out
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brill 9/14</span>/11 Alex Brill is a research fellow at AEI., Super Committee vs. Fiscal Commission: It's Different This Time <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/104138]]</span> JG
In December 2010, ...meddling and lower tax rates.

====A2 Status Quo Spending==== 
__Bipartisanship Now__ – Going well now but still time to break down.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cowan 9/28/11</span>
Richard, Reuters Journalist, As deficit panel meets, is no news good news?, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/28/us-usa-debt-secrecy-idUSTRE78R6FF20110928
When politicians clam ... offering a dose of realism.

The plan is a __new__ addition to the super committee – the jobs bill was already perceived and has little impact on the negotiations
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Helderman, ‘9-9</span> [Rosalind S. Helderman, 9-9-11, “Obama’s jobs plan may add to supercommittee’s burden” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/obamas-jobs-plan-may-add-to-supercommittees-burden/2011/09/09/gIQA9Oq6FK_story.html]]</span>, SM]
Several had ... going to be complicated.”

Obama’s job plan won’t derail compromise – he’s willing to push for spending cuts too
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Espo, ‘9-13</span> [David Espo, 09/13/11, “Super Committee Task Complicated By Obama Jobs Plan”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/09/13/super-committee-congress-obama-jobs-plan_n_959932.html]]</span>, SM]
"My question to Congress ... with the president last summer that ultimately collapsed.

Congress will postpone contentious budget issues until after super committee package
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OMB Watch, 9/13</span> (“Despite Debt Ceiling Deal, Future Budget Road Looks Bumpy,” 9/13/2011, http://www.ombwatch.org/node/11849)
Of course, all of t... FY 2012 budget.

====Link Wall==== 
The link is huge
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A) __Unpredictable Pressure__ – the unpredictable nature of the plan provides outside pressure to the super committee – creates a stalemate</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buetler, ‘9-8</span> [Brian Buelter, “Can The Super Committee Even Pass Its First — And By Far Easiest — Test?”. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://tpmdc.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/09/can-the-super-committee-even-pass-its-first----and-by-far-easiest----test.php]]</span>, SM]
Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), ... always just another appropriation away from happening.

NASA can’t cut any spending for a program without congressional approval – Ares 1 proves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fox, ’10</span> [December 29, 2010, “Why NASA Is Spending Half a Billion Dollars on a Canceled Rocket”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/29/nasa-spending-half-billion-dollars-canceled-ares-rocket/#ixzz1YGhuL2tQ|http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/29/nasa-spending-half-billion-dollars-canceled-ares-rocket/#ixzz1YGhuL2tQ]]</span>, SM]
A large portion of the e... a Public Affairs Officer at NASA.

====A2 Impact Defense==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their impact defense doesn’t assume cuts that have already happened – we are at the brink now, any more cuts collapses our military strategy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graham, ‘9-9</span> [Jed Graham, 9/9/11, “Debt Deal Trigger Would Cut Defense Spending Deeply”, [[http://www.investors.com/NewsAndAnalysis/Article.aspx?id=584367&p=1]], SM]
By any measure, ... in budget cuts by year-end would trigger another $500 billion in defense cuts.

Their ev doesn’t assume inflation
O’Hanlon, 9-13 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, “TESTIMONY FOR THE HOUSE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE, SEPTEMBER,” September 13th 2011, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/testimonies/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
In a stunning change... weapons, and operations.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Further defense cuts causes Asian instability and resulting nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mazza and Blumenthal, ’11 </span>[8/5/11, Michael Mazza is the program manager for AEI's annual Executive Program on National Security Policy and Strategy, and Dan Blumenthal is a current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. “Asia Needs a Larger U.S. Defense Budget”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/scholar/92]]</span>, SM]
In Washington the season ... resourcing our Pacific forces today.

Defense cuts hurt jobs – aerospace industry and manufacturing
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NAM, ‘9-1</span> [National Association Of Manufacturers (NAM), “Manufacturers: Defense and Aerospace Sectors Vital to Manufacturing's Future”, September 1, 2011
[[http://news.thomasnet.com/companystory/Defense-Manufacturing-Initiative-shows-importance-to-U-S-economy-601387]], SM]

Washington, D.C. - The National ...of the defense and aerospace sectors in the United States.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even a small cut has devastating effects, and future congresses have the __ability__ to rollback the cuts, other priorities mean they won’t</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bolton, ‘11</span> [<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/scholar/121|John R. Bolton]]</span>, August 1, 2011, “Defense and the Debt Ceiling”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/103940]]</span>]
First, they say, "Even... have cost more than $300 billion.

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Legitimacy DA</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC Shell</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is perceived as space unilateralism – US needs to maintain its willingness for international cooperation in order to gain support</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Smith 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">-- Space and Technology Policy Group</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(February, 2011, Marcia A., Space Policy, Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Over succeeding months ...meeting at the UN in October 2010 [5].</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The perception of space unilateralism causes an international backlash that destroys US hegemonic legitimacy –</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brown, ‘09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Trevor Brown has a BA, Indiana University, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal, Spring 2009, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/ISN/121733/.../Section+11.pdf, SM]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Russia and China believe ... plans to offer such protection.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">That devastates leadership and makes international conflict inevitable</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Monalván ‘10</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan|Luis Carlos Montalván]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Former Army Capt., freelance journalist and veteran’s advocate, Master's degrees in Journalism and Strategic Communications at Columbia University, April 23, 2010, “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan/multilateralism-is-essent_b_550332.html|Multilateralism is Essential for Peace in the 21st Century]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan/multilateralism-is-essent_b_550332.html</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Unilateralism is thewrongapproach for ... to wage peace that is just as sophisticated as our capability to make war.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently, hegemony shorn of international support causes backlash, terrorism, mass proliferation, and results in isolationism</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ikenberry ’02</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition—Foreign Affairs, lexis]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial... overestimation of their power.</span></span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2NC Impact Cards</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Power is not the same as leadership—only multilateral support can create an effective US-led international order—we’ll beat your internal links with this card alone</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fakiolas and Fakiolas,’07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#front|Efstathios T. Fakiolas]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> holds a PhD from the Department of War Studies, King's College London, and is currently working as a strategy and southeastern European affairs analyst at ATEbank AND </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#front|Tassos E. Fakiolas]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> holds a PhD from IMEMO, Moscow, Russian Academy of Sciences and is a special adviser on Russian and east European affairs for a Greek business firm., “Pax Americana or Multilateralism?”, Mediterranean Quarterly 18.4 (2007) 53-86, SM]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the aftermath of ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> stability acceptable to the others</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2NC Links/AT Link Turn</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">You link – Defensive measures are perceived as offensive</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Coffelt, 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Lt. Colonal; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OFUS SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. June 2005.)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">As there are currently ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">non-military disadvantages.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prior bad actions guarantee it</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hitchens, 7</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – director of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, STATEMENT BY BEFORE THE NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS SUBCOMMITTEE HOUSE OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNNMENT REFORM COMMITTEE ON WEAPONIZING SPACE: IS CURRENT U.S. POLICY PROTECTION OUR SECURITY? MAY 23, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/HitchensTestimony.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Further, other responses ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> space as a “soft power” tool.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cooperation must be an explicit mandate of the plan or it undermines US credibility</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sabathier et. al 6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6, Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">International cooperation in space ... for future exploration endeavors</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The lack of prior consultation is a link – the current lack of resources for space is forcing the US to enter into a genuinely consultative mode</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Foust, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – editor of the Space Review (Jeff, Space Politics, “New paradigms in human spaceflight policy,” 1/14,</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.spacepolitics.com/2010/01/14/new-paradigms-in-human-spaceflight-policy/</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As the shuttle programs ...necessary </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">changes are made</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan removes the primary motive driving cooperation – the expectation of a declining space budget</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Fukushima 11**—</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">National Institute for Defense Studies</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(February, 2011, **Yasuhito, Space Policy,** “An Asian perspective on the new US space policy: The emphasis on international cooperation and its relevance to Asia” Vol. 27, Issue 1, Science Direct, FS)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Leveraging the increasing...service provision, and enable market access for US industry.”</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
==Counterplans== 
===United Nations CP=== 
US must commit to international multilateralism through the United Nations
Hadani, ’10 [Wolfgang Rathgeber is a Scientific Staff Member; Institute of Radio Frequency Engineering and Radar Systems, Kai-Uwe Schrogl is the Director of European Space Policy Institute, Ray A. Williamson, “The Fair and Responsible Use: An International Perspective”, ed. by The European Space Policy Institute, pg. 150-153]
The United Nations … fair and responsible use of space.156

US cooperation in space is key to broader soft power and diplomatic relations – its reverse causal, reducing participation decks US diplomacy
Sabathier, et. Al, ’06 [September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf ]
The ISS program, along …cooperation is valued.

U.S. leadership with U.N. prevents disease spread, terrorism, war, climate instability and is key to global conflict resolution
Esther Brimmer September 7th 2011 Remarks at the U.S. Institute of Peace, Sustaining America’s Global Leadership: U.S. Priorities at the United Nations http://www.state.gov/p/io/rm/2011/171747.htm
[PHD in IR from Oxford, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations, Bureau of International Organization Affairs]
Here in the United States, … at the United Nations works.

===Code of Conduct CP=== 

**The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations, including China, that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space, including the development of Operationally Responsive Space. The United States federal government should adapt a policy of not initiating a first strike on the People’s Republic of China.**

**Code of conduct solves weaponization – even if there are no enforcement procedures, the creation of international norms deters violators, and a focus on actions solves all their verification concerns**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon, Hitchens, and Katz-Hyman, ’11</span>** [February 2011, Michael Krepon is the President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Theresa Hitchens is Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, and Michael Katz-Hyman is a Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects “Preserving Freedom of Action in Space: Realizing the Potential and Limits of U.S. Spacepower”, Chapter 20 in “Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays”, SM]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We view a code of conduct for responsible spacefaring nations as a …. even more useful when drawn together as a coherent regime.</span>

**CP solves China – they are not solely motivated by national security – a code of conduct creates a new cooperative relationship**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon,’08</span>** [Michael Krepon is president of the Henry Stimson Center and Christopher Clary “Space as a Strategic Asset Twilight War: the Folly of U.S. Space Dominance, and the Politics of Space Security: Strategic Restraint and the Pursuit of National Interests,” The Non-Proliferation Review, November 1, 2008, Vol. 15 No. 3, 549-554, SM]
The Chinese and U.S. ASAT tests are important indicators ….. Moore’s prescriptions for a new treaty will not be easy to implement.

===Land Rights CP=== 
**The United States federal government should pass legislation that recognizes land claims made by private companies on land masses in space.**

**Land claims recognition is the only incentive that can allow for space colonization and does not violate the Outer Space Treaty.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span>** (Alan and Douglas, Chairman of the Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society and President of the Space Settlement Institute, “Space Settlements, Property Rights, and International Law: Could a Lunar Settlement Claim the Lunar Real Estate It Needs to Survive”, Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law, Journal of Air Law and Commerce, 73 J. Air L. & Com. 37)
Unfortunately, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">neither private enterprise nor …. made by private space settlements, without these nations being guilty of national appropriation or any other legal violation</span>.


===Hybrid Launch Vehicle PIC=== 

**Plan: The Department of Defense should ensure a substantial increase of the development of Operationally Responsive Space, which entails a non-hybrid launch vehicle launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development and architecture, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, space situational awareness, and hardening of military satellites.**


**CP solves the case – HLV not key**
**Brown 06**
Lt Col Kendall K. Brown, USAFR, PhD, liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education, Maxwell AFB, Alabama, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force?” //Air and Space Power Journal,// <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Perhaps we won’t need an HLV to support the ORS construct, ….. the use of near-space balloons, converted ICBMs, or other inexpensive, expendable launch vehicles might be a better solution.</span>

**ORS uses hybrid launch vehicles – perceived as nuclear weapons launch or space weaponization – turns the case**
**Brown 06**
Lt Col Kendall K. Brown, USAFR, PhD, liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education, Maxwell AFB, Alabama, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force?” //Air and Space Power Journal,// <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Inclusion of a global strike capability might have a destabilizing effect on world …. </span>Probably so.



===Russian Cooperation / Reciprocity Condition CP=== 

**The United States federal government should enter into binding negotiations with the Russian Federation to implement cooperative measures over the deployment of delay/disruption tolerant networking on its satellites, including but not limited to space based network nodes on the condition that the Russian Federation decreases its nuclear weapons arsenal with and reciprocal to the United States.**

**Cooperation initiated with Russia in the past – they’d agree to future instances AND cooperation critical to Russian nonproliferation**
**Logsdon and Millar 1**
John M. Logsdon, Director, Space Policy Institute
James R. Millar, Director, Institute for European, Russian, and Eurasian Studies
Elliott School of International Affairs
The George Washington University
U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight
Assessing the Impacts
<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]]</span>
It was not until the administration of President Bill Clinton took office in 1993 that even broader political rationales got added to the equation. …….. 5. helping Russia to maintain one of the emblems of its great power status - its human space flight program - in existence.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Formal negotiations mean Russia says yes – they want reductions, but want them on paper</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Christian Science Monitor</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span>** (Peter Grier, “Disarmament’s new look: fewer warheads, no treaty, “, 93:247, November 15)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We like the idea of</span> massive weapons <span style="font-size: 10pt;">reductions, said Putin………</span>. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are many ways it could sour. Why not hammer out a quick weapons-cut pact</span>?

**Unchecked nationalism causes war with the U.S.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Blank ‘7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Blank , Research Professor of National Security Affairs at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College, “Russian Democracy, Revisited” Spring, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.securityaffairs.org/issues/2007/12/blank.php]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) Bankey</span>
Gvosdev defends his brand of realism as a moral policy based on prudential calculations that seek to maximize benefits and minimize losses. …… <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Without it, the Kremlin could very well succumb to imperial temptation, at the cost of international catastrophe.</span>

===Hedging Multiplank CP=== 

**The United States federal government should adopt a hedging strategy, as per our Krepon evidence, that substantially increases the redundancy and cost-effective hardening of satellites and their links and initiates ground-based research and development, but not flight-testing and deployment of space weapons technologies. Text: The President should issue an executive order to reaffirm the Fundamental Research Exemption and ensure that it is properly implemented and the president should issue an economic competitiveness exemption that eliminates export controls on dual-use technologies where they are available without restriction in open markets outside the United States. The United States federal government should repeal the China Military Catch All Rule. The United States federal government should adopt a covert policy of no first use against the People’s Republic of China.**

**The CP alleviates our export controls and resolves US competitiveness**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NAP, ‘09</span>** [Committee on Science, Security, and Prosperity; Committee on Scientific Communication and National Security; National Research Council, BEYOND “FORTRESS AMERICA”: National Security Controls on Science and Technology in a Globalized World, http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12567&page=R2]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">RECOMMENDATION</span> 2 The President should direct that executive authorities under the Arms Export Control Act and the Export Administration Act …… or individuals <span style="font-size: 10pt;">as ineligible to obtain exports from the United States.</span>
**Repealing the CMCAR increases US competitiveness and military superiority**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diamond, J.D. Brooklyn Law School, ‘08</span>** [Andrew also served as the program manager of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies in Monterey, California. DUELING OVER DUAL-USE GOODS: THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE'S MISGUIDED ATTEMPT TO PROMOTE U.S. SECURITY AND TRADE WITH CHINA THROUGH RESTRICTIVE EXPORT CONTROLS, 3 Brook. J. Corp. Fin. & Com. L. 153, Fall 2008. LN]
The aforementioned <span style="font-size: 10pt;">changes to U.S. export control policy vis-a-vis China will have widespread implications for</span>U.S. exporters….. Thus, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the final China Military Catch All Rule may very well exacerbate the very problems it was designed to solve.</span>
**A hedging strategy solves their first internal link – deters weaponization and means there’s no impact if a country does weaponize**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon, Hitchens, and Katz-Hyman, ’11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [February 2011, Michael Krepon is the President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Theresa Hitchens is Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, and Michael Katz-Hyman is a Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects “Preserving Freedom of Action in Space: Realizing the Potential and Limits of U.S. Spacepower”, Chapter 20 in “Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays”, SM]</span>
The exercise of restraint from using weapons in space is not easy for the world's most powerful nation or …… while providing further support for our contention that dedicated ASAT tests and deployments are both unwise and unnecessary.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
===Space Corps CP=== 

**The United States federal government should create a Space Guard. The United States federal government should not launch any networks necessary for space situational awareness.**
</span>
===XO CP=== 

Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects enacting through the appropriate agencies

Contention 1: Solvency

Executive orders effectively implement policy with the force of law.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 01</span> [Kenneth, Professor of Political Science @ University of Wisconsin – Madison, //With the Stroke of a Pen]//
These chronicles of presidential decisiveness and unilateral action are at odds …..“the President’s lawmaking role is substantial, persistent, and in many cases disturbing.”8

<span class="cite">Pres powers on the brink – Obama has little presidential influence – Cowed by conservatives, supports those who backstab him, and betrays campaign promises</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Agonist, </span>7/6/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>(Aurelius, Freelance writer, “The CV Is Hardening: Obama is Weak”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://agonist.org/aurelius/20100706/the_cv_is_hardening_obama_is_weak]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"Weak," "wimp," "soft." ….. </span>what they're doing during the 2012 Democratic primaries.
Executive orders are key to presidential powers – they control policies and set agendas.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 01</span> [Kenneth, Professor in the Department of Poli Sci @ University of Wisconsin-Madison, //Executive Orders and Presidential Power//, pg. 28-29]

This theoretical perspective offered by the new institutional economics literature provides …… within a particular structure context over which they have no control.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increased presidential powers are key to solve warming</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PCAP 8</span> (Presidential Climate Action Project, Nonpartisan Project at the University of Colorado Denver, “Climate Action Brief: The Use of Presidential Power”, 2008 is the last date cited, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.climateactionproject.com/docs/briefs/Climate_Brief_Presidential_Power.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">This legacy could lead the Congress……. And, of course, the President has the bully pulpit.</span></span>

Warming causes extinction-melting ice caps.
Tickell,’08 [Tickell, The Guardian, journalist, author of Kyoto 2, climate expert, 8/11/2008, Oliver, "On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction," http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]
We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra. But <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the idea that we could adapt</span> to a 4C rise <span style="font-size: 10pt;">is absurd and dangerous…… </span>Many scientists warn that this historical event may be analogous to the present: the <span style="font-size: 10pt;">warming</span> caused by human emissions could <span style="font-size: 10pt;">propel us towards a</span> similar<span style="font-size: 10pt;">hothouse Earth.</span>

===EU CP=== 
TEXT: The European Union should fund the European Space Agency to increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects based on United States asteroid detection technology. The ESA should model all technology based off United States technology

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP solves the case</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brauer and Monte 2005</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gerard and Luca del, Gerard is the head of the ESA, “European Space Research and Development for the Security and Military Sectors” pdf)</span>
The above described scenario suggests that the potential contribution ……<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.. </span>prototypes, demonstrators or space borne infrastructure components to serve defence requirements.

ESA’s project – Don Quijote – can effectively deflect asteroids
Roberts 9 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Karlene H., PhD, Has School of Business, University of California, Berkeley, Chair, Center for Catastrophic Risk Management, University of California, August 2009, Natural Hazards Observer, “The Catastrophe We Can Prevent: the Near Earth Orbit Problem,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://ccrm.berkeley.edu/pdfs_papers/9.09/Roberts_Near_Earth_Object_Problem3.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The European Space Agency (ESA) has addressed one part of the deflection problem. Its project, Don Quijote, is a mission concept addressing the projectile proposal. A non threatening asteroid would be identified. A spacecraft would fly out and observe the asteroid for some period of time. A second spacecraft would then fly out and ram the asteroid and the first spacecraft would continue to measure changes in asteroid trajectory, etc</span>. This program is as yet unfunded.

===Anchor Tenant / Loan CP=== 
Text: The Department of Defense should replace current spending on fossil fuels by agreeing to pay at least one dollar per kilowatt-hour for space-based solar power services developed by the private sector. The United States federal government should not develop space-based solar power. The United States federal government should offer long-term, low-interest, guaranteed loans to any private company that expresses interest in investing in space-based solar power.
CP critical to initiate a SBSP transition – #1 driver
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSSO, 7 </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> industry has stated that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the #1 driver and </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">requirement </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…….. </span>**</span>NextView acquisition approach pioneered by the National GeoSpatial<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 6pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">imaging Agency.</span>

Loan guarantees solve better than the aff
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bova, 1AC author, 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">–award-winning editor and an executive in the aerospace industry Ben, “TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT From Ben Bova,” 10-2008, http://www.benbova.com/presidentltr1.html</span>

Once you enter the White House you will face enormous problems: ……….. that will deliver the gigawatts we need to lower our imports of foreign oil and begin to move away from <span style="font-size: 6pt;">fossil fuels.</span>

===C-ORS CP=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC Shell</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The United States Air Force should initiate partnerships necessary for the development of a coalition based Operationally Responsive Space system </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">into low-Earth orbit beyond the Earth’s mesosphere</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> with all member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.</span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A coalition based ORS solves the entire case better – minimizes costs, maximizes interoperability, and creates a stronger deterrent – our evidence is comparative – block buys mean spending is a net benefit</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Doyne, ’07 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[31 January 2007, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[mailto:|Col.Tim Doyne]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, works in the office of the Director of Defense Research and Engineering. He previously worked on ORS issues for the Office of Force Transformation “OpEd: Coalition ORS: A 100 Satellite Solution”, SM]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the ORS use of TacSats presents... a way to maintain the freedom of space.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2NC Solvency</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only the CP solves their launch costs advantage – creates a sustainable launch mechanism</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Feltman, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, “Building Partner Capacity With Operationally Responsive Space” Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, 17 February 2010, SM]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The programmatic ...across more users.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">CP solves the case better</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Smith, 1AC Author, 1**1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The best defense for ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> they may attack anyway.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solves deterrence better –</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Feltman, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, “Building Partner Capacity With Operationally Responsive Space” Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, 17 February 2010, SM]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">To summarize, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">injecting ... creates a deterrent effect.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CP makes ORS effective</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Feltman, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, “Building Partner Capacity With Operationally Responsive Space” Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, 17 February 2010, SM]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The Air Force has an ... and non-hostile contests.</span></span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AT Perm do CP</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Severance and Normal Means – the creation of a coalition based operationally responsive space is distinct from the plan – here’s specific evidence that compares the counterplan to the process of the plan and normal means goes negative – top experts agree that status quo ORS policy is different</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Feltman, ’1**0</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, “Building Partner Capacity With Operationally Responsive Space” Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, 17 February 2010, SM]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Consider how </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a CAFTT-like ...ORS Program Office identified two initial concerns worth discussing</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">AT Perm do Both</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Permutation is impossible – engagement strategy is inconsistent with unilateral deployment</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Feltman, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, “Building Partner Capacity With Operationally Responsive Space” Damon S. Feltman, Lt Col, USAF, 17 February 2010, SM]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The benefits for adopting... manage the competition.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The lack of prior consultation is a link – the current lack of resources for space is forcing the US to enter into a genuinely consultative mode</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Foust, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – editor of the Space Review (Jeff, Space Politics, “New paradigms in human spaceflight policy,” 1/14,</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.spacepolitics.com/2010/01/14/new-paradigms-in-human-spaceflight-policy/</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As the shuttle ...necessary </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">changes are made</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan replicates the worst of Bush-era space policy – it is made without consultation and alienates international partners by having the US stay in charge</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Billings, 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">– SETI Institute, (Linda, “How shall we live in space? Culture, law and ethics in spacefaring society”, Space Policy 22 (2006) 249–255, Science Direct)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In October 2004 a Bush ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">its decision</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> to cancel Dawn.</span></span>
==Kritiks== 
===Race K=== 
====1NC Version 1==== 

**Technology has become the new American theology. The affirmative’s techno-fetish ignores the SUBTEXT OF WHITENESS at the core of their science.**
**Dinerstein 2k6**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dinerstein, Joel [Assistant Professor of English at Tulane University ] “Technology and Its Discontents: On the Verge of the Posthuman” American Quarterly, Volume 58, Number 3, Septermber 2006, pp. 569-570)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Immediately after 9/11, ….. By the conclusion, I hope to have shown that the posthuman is an escape from the panhuman.</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McQUAID</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k7</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age. ….. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This essay addresses the fight to make America’s space program—like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span></span>

**The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.**
**We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DR. CRENSHAW</span> Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>

This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>. ……. Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.
**Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">MEMMI </span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">2000</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, ….. If it is accepted, we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span></span>


====1NC Version 2==== 

**White supremacy is the unnamed political system that shapes the modern world. Our Hobbseian social contract is really a RACIAL contract which ENFORCES this system. We must aggressively ENGAGE a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLS</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>**
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today ….. Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.</span></span>


**Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McQUAID</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k7</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age…… </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">—like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span></span>

**The ignorance of these racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through EPISTEMOLOGICAL ETHNOCENTRISM where any achievement deemed to fall OUTSIDE the Euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of EXPLORATION, DISCOVERY and EXTRA-TERRESTRIALITY are used to DEMONIZE non-European space.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLS</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are two main dimensions to this norming: the epistemological and the moral. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">……. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">And the society they saw themselves founding was, correspondingly, sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."</span></span>

**The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.**
**We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DR. CRENSHAW</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>. …… Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
**Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">MEMMI </span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">2000</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, …… True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span></span>


====1NC Version 3==== 

White supremacy is the unnamed political system that shapes the modern world. Our Hobbseian social contract is really a RACIAL contract which ENFORCES this system. We must aggressively ENGAGE a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLS</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today…… Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.</span></span>


Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McQUAID</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2k7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age. …….. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span></span>

Their space policy perceives American history as a straight line of inevitability that links westward expansion to the colonization of space.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Billings 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Linda Billings is a Ph.D. Research Associate at the SETI Institute in Washington, DC. Linda has a Ph.D. in mass communication. She specializes in research, analysis, commentary on space policy, and the history of rationales for space exploration. She has more than 30 years of experience in the field of communication and 25 years of experience in aerospace; “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” presented at the IASTS 21st Annual Conference February 3-4, 2006, Baltimore, MD; AL]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The social, political, economic and </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">cultural context for the U.S. civil space program has changed radically since the 1960s…… the blinders worn to screen the past have proven to be just as effective at distorting the view of the future.”</span></span>

The ignorance of these racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through EPISTEMOLOGICAL ETHNOCENTRISM where any achievement deemed to fall OUTSIDE the Euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of EXPLORATION, DISCOVERY and EXTRA-TERRESTRIALITY are used to DEMONIZE non-European space.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLS</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are two main dimensions to this norming: the epistemological and the moral. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">……. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">And the society they saw themselves founding was, correspondingly, sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."</span></span>

The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.
We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DR. CRENSHAW</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>……. Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.
Racism is a decision rule – moral obligation to come first
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">MEMMI </span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">2000</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission………. If it is accepted, we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span></span>

Hegemony is UNSUSTAINABLE and only serves to JUSTIFY domestic racism by keeping the oppressed at the brink of starvation.\

**__MARSHALL__** Research Assc with the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG) **__2k10__**
Andrew Gavin-currently studying Political Economy and History @ Simon Fraser University; War, Racism and the Empire of Poverty: When Empire Hits Home, Part 1; GLOBAL RESEARCH, March 22;
[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleld=18263|www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleld=18263]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the American Empire is in decline……. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The war is waged by the ruling group against its own subjects and its object is not the victory</span>

====Patriarchy Cards==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">REVOLUTIONARY FEMINIST VOICE HAS BEEN SILENCED</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">White feminists VEHEMENTLY resist the anti-racist agenda of REVOLUTIONARY feminist thinking and a SIMILAR SILENCING occurs in predominantly Black public settings when race is the topic, Black feminist seen as DERAILING or SHIFTING focus as opposed to adding DEPTH and COMPLEXITY. These contexts warrant the lack of Black womyn who CHOOSE to publicly advocate revolutionary feminist politics leaving no record of ANY meaningful attempt to educate Black communities on the issue of feminism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">hooks former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author;</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">KILLING RAGE Ending Racism</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">; p. 101-102</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> It is usually materially ... within the existing structure.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> NET BENEFIT IS COLLECTIVE RESISTANCE TO WHITE SUPREMACY</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">THE AFFIRMATIVE TRAPS COLLECTIVE BLACK STRUGGLE INTO AN ASSIMILATED NIGHTMARE OF RACIAL INTEGRATION ERASING THE SPIRIT OF RESISTANCE NEEDED TO OVERCOME THE INSIDIOUS COLONIALISM OF WHITE SUPREMACY</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Personalizing racism IGNORES a CONSCIOUSLY MAPPED-OUT strategy of DOMINATION that is SYSTEMATICALLY maintained, Blacks are COLONIZED, COLONIALISM aptly describing the process by which Blacks WERE and CONTINUE to be SUBORDINATED by white supremacy. But it is racial integration that has become a MORE INSIDIOUS form of neo-colonial white supremacy attacking the minds of Blacks. THE SPIRIT OF RESISTANCE that remained STRONG from the days of SLAVERY and MILITANCY gone, a SEPARATE Black space has been DISPLACED and white supremacy now can OVERSEE and ERADICATE any COLLECTIVE RESISTANCE through the SEDUCTION of material reward</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">hooks former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author;</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">KILLING RAGE Ending Racism</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">; p. 108-110</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> When I began the process ...constantly reminding us of our marginalized status.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">BLACK FEMINISM MUST MILITANTLY OPPOSE RACIST/SEXIST REPRESENTATIONS OF BLACK WOMYNHOOD IN THE GUISE OF RACIAL UPLIFT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The focus on Black males as “endangered species” REINSCRIBES white supremacist capitalist patriarchal SCAPEGOATING of Black womynhood, Black womyn being BLAMED for the DILEMMAS Black males face, POVERTY, JOBLESSNESS, AGGRESSION and VIOLENCE as opposed to white supremacy and patriarchy. Black males become PRIMARY ADVOCATES of a patriarchal view of RACIAL UPLIFT masking their sexism in CONCERN and CARE for the Black family. This DIVISIVENESS between Black men and womyn CONDONES VIOLENT REPRESSION as a means to keep “uppity” Black womyn in check and converges with the more VICIOUS and INSIDIOUS assault on single Black mothers receiving welfare.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">hooks former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author;</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">KILLING RAGE Ending Racism</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">; p. 81-83</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> All the recent mass .....about black families.</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">PRIORITIZED RACIAL DISCOURSE PERPETUATES SEXISM IN BLACK LIFE</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Continually cast as “traitors,” those who CHALLENGE and CRITIQUE the MISGUIDED sexist assumptions of Black leadership are SILENCED; patriarchal thinking is COVERED UP, DENIED and MASKED as Black males are BRAINWASHED into exerting sexist aggression towards Black females as a means to enhance their lives, compensating them for the TRAUMA of living in a white supremacist society and experiencing PERPETUAL RACIST ASSAULT; ATTENTION and ENERGY that could CONSTRUCTIVELY UNDERMINE systems of DOMINATION are drained in GENDER WARS and conflicts. Until this cycle is broken Black people CANNOT address issues of positive GENDER IDENTITY FORMATION.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">hooks former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author;</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">KILLING RAGE Ending Racism</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">; p. 94-95</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Ultimately, sexist...masked as a response to racial victimization.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">THE FEMINIST “BLACK MALE VOICE” IS THE KEY TO BLACK LIBERATION</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The counter hegemonic presence of Black heterosexual males who engage in a feminist critique of domination MUST be VISIBLE. These Black males are the VANGUARD group that can BEGIN and SUSTAIN a CULTURAL REVOLUTION that CHALLENGES sexism and misogyny in Black life, the ONLY testimony that can bear TRUTH to the point that Black feminism led exclusively by Black womyn DENIES Black men a TRULY liberatory constructed identity. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is the struggle against BLACK SEXISM that offers HOPE, the possibility of REDEMPTION, TRANSCENDENCE of UTOPIAN FANTASIES, HOPE that the consequences of white supremacist capitalist patriarchy will CEASE, our wounds HEALED and the struggle for Black liberation finally REALIZED. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">hooks former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author;</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">KILLING RAGE Ending Racism</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">; p. 95-97</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Individual, progressive ...the politics of daily life.</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">PATRIARCHAL CONDESCENSION PERPETUATING BLACK SEXISM</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Black womyn who embrace feminism are seen as RACE TRAITORS incapable of embracing REVOLUTIONARY feminism in ways that would ENHANCE rather than DIMINISH Black liberation; this patriarchal condescension MASKS allegiance to SEXISM and patriarchal thinking in Black life, protecting male and white privilege within existing social structures.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">hooks former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author;</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">KILLING RAGE Ending Racism</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">; p. 100-101</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> To many black folks f... existing social structure.</span>
==== ====