[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Require means necessitate as justified. Means presume AFF.

V- Justice because the resolution questions how justice would allocate rights.

Rights come about in the community
Hunt 1
"The right to...one human right."

Rights can only be determined in relation to others.
Hunt 2
"Arednt's reference here...condition of rightlessness"

Exclusion of rights leads to violence
Hunt 3
"X refers to...against this institution"

Uncertainity of rights holders necessitates the extension of all rights
Hunt 4
"the way X...of substitution infinitely"

Neg has to show rights can be limited.

Even if rights are problematic, does not deny the requirement

B-Demonstrate that infinite rights extend to animals

The truth of nature is defined in humanist terms, making understanding nature indeterminate.
Hunt 5
"mutants with an...seen as human"

Controlling discourse of rights necessarily pushes rights to animals
Hunt 6
"To acknowledge that...subject of rights"

Alastair Hunt The Rights of the Infinite qui parle spring/summer 2011 vol.19, no.2


==Negative== 
Contract NC

Negate-"deny truth of"

Require-"call for as obligatory."

V-Justice

Rational agents are self interested.
Gauthier 1 
"Each acts on...no such basis"

Self interest comes prior to questions of rights.
Narveson 1 

"To talk of...accepting similar limitations"

Only contractarianism can meet this requirement

VC-consistency with rational contractarianism

Interests not inherently of concern to humans.
Narveson 2
"gives us a...gained by it."

Even if we have interests, this does not mean rights
Narveson 3
"to argue that...than rejecting them."

Are We Moral Debtors? David Gauthier Philosophy and Phenomenological Research Vol. 6 No. 1 2003 
Animal Rights. Jan Narveson 1977 Canadian Journal of Philosophy Vol. 7 No. 1


Cohen Off
Rights must be exerted.
Cohen 1
"A right is...is a right"

Animals cannot posses this requirement for rights.
Cohen 2
"The differing targets...cannot possess rights."

Carl Cohen "The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research," The New England Journal of Medicine 314 [1986], 865-869//.// 


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]