=== === 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">[[toc]]
</span>


























=<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1AC Niles</span>== 
===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **Inherency**</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Timeframe of detection key to solve**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Schweickart 2008 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">– former astronaut (September 25, Russell, “Asteroid Threats: A Call for Global Response” http://www.s</span>pace-explorers.org/ATACGR.pdf )</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Asteroid impacts occur on </span>… <span style="text-decoration: none;">give us little or no warning.</span></span>


<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Recent asteroid threat proves we are not prepared </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Cleveland 7/17/11 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">(“ Playing celestial chicken: editorial ” [[http://www.cleveland.com/opinion/index.ssf/2011/07/playing_celestial_chicken.html]])</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Whew! That was close -- </span>… <span style="text-decoration: none;"> it long before that day arrives. </span></span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Big Asteroids</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 2 is large asteroids**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**VERSCHUUR 1996** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">In the past few years, the … that will determine our fate.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**McGUIRE 2002** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at __[[home|University College London]]__ and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The Tunguska events pale into … a new comet heading in our direction.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Timeframe is irrelevant – view the debate in terms of a millennia**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**VERSCHUUR 1996** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">There is an even more subtle reason why we are … that this question is worth thinking about.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The scarcity of life in the universe proves both the probability and impact of our advantage**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**KAZAN __[[home|2011]]__** (Casey, Owner of Galaxy Media LLC and __[[home|graduate]]__ of Harvard University, “Tracking the Realtime Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids &comets- could it __[[home|save]]__ the planet?”, The Daily Galaxy, Feb 8, [[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)/DT|http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Stephen Hawking believes that … at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Prefer our impacts – extinction outweighs**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**POSNER 2004** (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago __[[home|Law School]]__, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Even if our insouciant reaction to small probabilities … or otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**E****<span style="text-decoration: none;">mbrace the possibility of a black swan</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Taleb (2005) suggests that hindsight … heroic preventive measures.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The impact to any solvency deficit is infinite**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**BARBEE 2009** (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering __[[home|degree from]]__ UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering __[[home|Mechanics]]__ at the __[[home|University of Texas]]__, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently __[[home|working]]__ as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches __[[home|graduate]]__ Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The __[[home|University of Maryland]]__, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)%20T|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">It is generally accepted … against NEOs.</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Small Asteroids</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 3 is the Ozone**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Asteroid detection prevents __[[home|future]]__ small collisions which are a massive cause of global ozone depletion.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Birks et al 05** ( John W., Department of __[[home|Chemistry]]__ and Biochemistry and Cooperative Institute for Research in</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Environmental Sciences (CIRES), __[[home|University of Colorado]]__, Boulder, Colorado, USA, Paul J. Crutzen, Max-Planck-Institute for Chemistry, Mainz, Germany and Scripps Institution of Oceanography,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">La Jolla, California, USA, Raymond G. Roble, High Altitude Observatory, National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colorado, USA, “Frequent Ozone Depletion Resulting from Impacts of Asteroids and Comets,”, http://www.twobtech.com/asteroid.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The impact with the Earth's … about three months following the impact.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Ozone depletion causes extinction**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Greenpeace, 1995**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(“Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,” [[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html|//http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html//]].)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina first postulated a link between … continuation of life on earth. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Small asteroid strike alone would kill millions**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Worden 2002 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">- United States Space Command, Peterson Air Force Base (October 24, S.P., “ Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (Neo) Threat. ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] pg. 101 )</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Most people know of the Tunguska NEO strike in Siberia in 1908. An </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">We know the orbits of just a few.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Intentional war won’t occur and small conflicts won’t escalate**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**MANDELBAUM 1999** (Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Feb 25, [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">My argument says, tacitly, that while … against an attack on a king.”</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**ECONOMIC INTERDEPENDENCE, SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, AND NUCLEAR DETERRENCE. THESE CHECKS ON CONFLICT ARE IRREVERSIBLE.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**FETTWEIS 2006**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Christopher J.(National Security Decision Making Department) US Naval War College International Studies Review 8, 677–697 4. ASP</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">However, one need not be … <span style="text-decoration: none;">ask why anyone should believe that it could not</span>.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**No risk of deliberate nuclear war – no countries have the capability**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**ROTHSTEIN ET AL 2004** (Linda, editor, Catherine, managing editor, and Jonas, assistant editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, BAS, November/December, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/article.php?art_ofn=nd04rothstein]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Is an incoming nuclear missile attack plausible? … from Moscow is extremely improbable.</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Plan: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should deploy space-based infrared telescopes and increase ground-based surveys to catalogue Near Earth Objects.**</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Offspring</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Now Solvency –**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Space based detection is key**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Worden 02** – Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(Brig. Gen. Simon P. Worden is Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif.; July 10, 2002; Speech by Gen. Simon Worden: "Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (NEO) Threat"; [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=8834]]; JN)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Perhaps the most urgent mid-term … every few days are what's needed.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The plan makes effective mitigation possible against all NEOs**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">NRC 2010</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” </span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]]</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Combined ground- and space-based surveys </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">than 140 meters in diameter.</span></span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space-based sensors would find new objects and facilitate exploration</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, [[http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2.1. NEO Search: To implement this … by ground-based systems.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">NASA is key </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Hsu 2010 </span>**(October 22, Jeremy, “</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/]])</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">National emergency plans for natural </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">there are probably many more objects out there that represent a possible threat to Earth.</span></span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Intervention won’t happen – the bystander effect diffuses responsibility </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">My last bias comes, not from the field of … thereby overcoming the diffusion.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The plan spills over to improve all other NEO missions**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, [[http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">NASA’s NEO research is a “three-dimensional” … <span style="text-decoration: none;">the science community and the public</span><span class="Underline">.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Realize your desire for our arguments about the end of humanity to be false implicates</span>**</span> **your decision calculus** – **traverse the illusion of comfort of the status quo and realize your vulnerability**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Wason's 2-4-6 task is a "cold" form of … in general, and disconfirmation bias in particular.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Nuke war doesn’t lead to extinction**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Martin, 1982** (Brian, Professor of Social Sciences in the School of Social Sciences, Media and Communication at the University of Wollongong, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300 [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">To summarise the above points, … extinction are quite sincere.[15]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Nuclear war doesn’t escalate globally.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Martin, 1982** (Brian, Professor of Social Sciences in the School of Social Sciences, Media and Communication at the University of Wollongong, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300 [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">It often has been argued that the use of a few … nuclear war in the first place.[29]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Other actors start from scratch – NASA baseline surveys and technology is key**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**National Academies 2009** (The National Academies Press, Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report, Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board, Space Studies Board, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1)//DT|http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1) ]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The United States is currently the … objects based on an integrated assessment of the problem.</span>

==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1AC Georgetown</span>== 
===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Inherency</span>=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Timeframe of detection key to solve**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Schweickart 2008 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">– former astronaut (September 25, Russell, “Asteroid Threats: A Call for Global Response” http://www.s</span>pace-explorers.org/ATACGR.pdf )</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Asteroid impacts occur on </span>… <span style="text-decoration: none;">give us little or no warning.</span></span>


<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**a.) WISE program should have triggered the link to all of their disads – prefer the recency of our evidence – but still a threat from medium and small asteroids**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**AP 9/30 –**</span> ( 9/30/11, “ NASA identifies 90 percent of largest near-Earth asteroids” [[http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2011/09/nasa_identifies_90_percent_of.html,bs]]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">NASA<span class="Underline"> researchers</span> also ............. The spacecraft recently ran out of coolant and is currently in hibernation. </span>


<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Recent asteroid threat proves we are not prepared</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Cleveland 7/17/11 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">(“ Playing celestial chicken: editorial ” [[http://www.cleveland.com/opinion/index.ssf/2011/07/playing_celestial_chicken.html]])</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Whew! That was close -- </span>… <span style="text-decoration: none;">it long before that day arrives.</span></span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Big Asteroids</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 2 is large asteroids**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**VERSCHUUR 1996** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">In the past few years, the … that will determine our fate.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**McGUIRE 2002** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The Tunguska events pale into … a new comet heading in our direction.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Timeframe is irrelevant – view the debate in terms of a millennia**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**VERSCHUUR 1996** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">There is an even more subtle reason why we are … that this question is worth thinking about.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The scarcity of life in the universe proves both the probability and impact of our advantage**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**KAZAN 2011** (Casey, Owner of Galaxy Media LLC and graduate of Harvard University, “Tracking the Realtime Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids &comets- could it save the planet?”, The Daily Galaxy, Feb 8, [[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)/DT|http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Stephen Hawking believes that … at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Prefer our impacts – extinction outweighs**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**POSNER 2004** (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Even if our insouciant reaction to small probabilities … or otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**E****<span style="text-decoration: none;">mbrace the possibility of a black swan</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Taleb (2005) suggests that hindsight … heroic preventive measures.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The impact to any solvency deficit is infinite**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**BARBEE 2009** (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)%20T|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">It is generally accepted … against NEOs.</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Small Asteroids</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 3 is the Ozone**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Asteroid detection prevents future small collisions which are a massive cause of global ozone depletion.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Birks et al 05** ( John W., Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and Cooperative Institute for Research in</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, USA, Paul J. Crutzen, Max-Planck-Institute for Chemistry, Mainz, Germany and Scripps Institution of Oceanography,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">La Jolla, California, USA, Raymond G. Roble, High Altitude Observatory, National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colorado, USA, “Frequent Ozone Depletion Resulting from Impacts of Asteroids and Comets,”, http://www.twobtech.com/asteroid.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The impact with the Earth's … about three months following the impact.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Ozone depletion causes extinction**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Greenpeace, 1995**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(“Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,” [[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html|//http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html//]].)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina first postulated a link between … continuation of life on earth.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Small asteroid strike alone would kill millions**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Worden 2002 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">- United States Space Command, Peterson Air Force Base (October 24, S.P., “ Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (Neo) Threat. ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] pg. 101 )</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Most people know of the Tunguska NEO strike in Siberia in 1908. An </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">We know the orbits of just a few.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Intentional war won’t occur and small conflicts won’t escalate**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**MANDELBAUM 1999** (Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Feb 25, [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">My argument says, tacitly, that while … against an attack on a king.”</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**ECONOMIC INTERDEPENDENCE, SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, AND NUCLEAR DETERRENCE. THESE CHECKS ON CONFLICT ARE IRREVERSIBLE.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**FETTWEIS 2006**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Christopher J.(National Security Decision Making Department) US Naval War College International Studies Review 8, 677–697 4. ASP</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">However, one need not be … <span style="text-decoration: none;">ask why anyone should believe that it could not</span>.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**No risk of deliberate nuclear war – no countries have the capability**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**ROTHSTEIN ET AL 2004** (Linda, editor, Catherine, managing editor, and Jonas, assistant editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, BAS, November/December, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/article.php?art_ofn=nd04rothstein]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Is an incoming nuclear missile attack plausible? … from Moscow is extremely improbable.</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Plan: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should deploy space-based infrared telescopes and increase ground-based surveys to catalogue Near Earth Objects.**</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Offspring</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Now Solvency –**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Space based detection is key**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Worden 02** – Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(Brig. Gen. Simon P. Worden is Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif.; July 10, 2002; Speech by Gen. Simon Worden: "Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (NEO) Threat"; [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=8834]]; JN)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Perhaps the most urgent mid-term … every few days are what's needed.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The plan makes effective mitigation possible against all NEOs**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">NRC 2010</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” </span><span class="Underline">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]]</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Combined ground- and space-based surveys </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">than 140 meters in diameter.</span></span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space-based sensors would find new objects and facilitate exploration</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, [[http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2.1. NEO Search: To implement this … by ground-based systems.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">NASA is key</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Hsu 2010 </span>**(October 22, Jeremy, “</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">White House adviser voices asteroid worries ” [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/]])</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">National emergency plans for natural </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">there are probably many more objects out there that represent a possible threat to Earth.</span></span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Intervention won’t happen – the bystander effect diffuses responsibility</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">My last bias comes, not from the field of … thereby overcoming the diffusion.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The plan spills over to improve all other NEO missions**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, [[http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">NASA’s NEO research is a “three-dimensional” … <span style="text-decoration: none;">the science community and the public</span><span class="Underline">.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Realize your desire for our arguments about the end of humanity to be false implicates</span>**</span> **your decision calculus** – **traverse the illusion of comfort of the status quo and realize your vulnerability**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Wason's 2-4-6 task is a "cold" form of … in general, and disconfirmation bias in particular.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Nuke war doesn’t lead to extinction**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Martin, 1982** (Brian, Professor of Social Sciences in the School of Social Sciences, Media and Communication at the University of Wollongong, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300 [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">To summarise the above points, … extinction are quite sincere.[15]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Nuclear war doesn’t escalate globally.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Martin, 1982** (Brian, Professor of Social Sciences in the School of Social Sciences, Media and Communication at the University of Wollongong, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300 [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">It often has been argued that the use of a few … nuclear war in the first place.[29]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Other actors start from scratch – NASA baseline surveys and technology is key**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**National Academies 2009** (The National Academies Press, Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report, Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board, Space Studies Board, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1)//DT|http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1)]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The United States is currently the … objects based on an integrated assessment of the problem.</span>

==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1AC New Trier</span>== 
===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Plan: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should deploy space-based infrared telescopes and increase ground-based surveys to catalogue Near Earth Objects.**</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Inherency</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 1 is inherency**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Squo fails** </span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**a.) WISE program should have triggered the link to all of their disads – prefer the recency of our evidence – but still a threat from medium and small asteroids**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**AP 9/30 –**</span> ( 9/30/11, “ NASA identifies 90 percent of largest near-Earth asteroids” [[http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2011/09/nasa_identifies_90_percent_of.html,bs]]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">NASA<span class="Underline"> researchers</span> also ..............equipped to detect<span class="Underline"> the more than a </span>million smallest asteroids<span class="Underline"> that could cause damage if they impact Earth</span>. The spacecraft recently ran out of coolant and is currently in hibernation. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**B.) Blind side – time frame of detection key to solve** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**Schweickart 2008** </span>– former astronaut (September 25, Russell, “Asteroid Threats: A Call for Global Response” http://www.space-explorers.org/ATACGR.pdf )</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Asteroid impacts occur on ............ Earth from the daylight side will give us little or no warning.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**C. Recent asteroid threat proves we are not prepared** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**Cleveland 7/17/11** </span>(“ Playing celestial chicken: editorial ” [[http://www.cleveland.com/opinion/index.ssf/2011/07/playing_celestial_chicken.html]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Whew! That was close --.........**, we'll have tried to do something about it long before that day arrives.** </span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Big Asteroids</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 2 is collisions**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**VERSCHUUR 1996** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">In the past few years, the comet impact scenario has taken on a life of its own and the danger of asteroids has been added to the comet count. In the context of heightened interest in the threat, __reassuring predictions have...........__ __limitation of human nature that will determine our fate__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Current cosmic cycle makes earth ten times more likely to be hit**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**DAILY GALAXY 2-11-2010** (“A Deadly Orbit?” http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2010/02/a-deadly-orbit-the-solar-systems-journey-through-the-milky-way.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__Is there a genocidal countdown..........__ A rock doesn't just have to hit us, it has to be large enough to survive the truly fearsome forces that cause most to burn up on re-entry.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Extinction** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**McGUIRE 2002** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to what happened ................ , and sudden appearance, wc could do little about a new comet heading in our direction</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The scarcity of life in the universe proves both the probability and impact of our advantage**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**KAZAN 2011** (Casey, Owner of Galaxy Media LLC and graduate of Harvard University, “Tracking the Realtime Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids &comets- could it save the planet?”, The Daily Galaxy, Feb 8, __[[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)/DT|http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)//DT]]__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Stephen Hawking believes that __one of the...........__ bodies at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Small Asteroids</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 3 is the Ozone**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Asteroid detection prevents future small collisions which are a massive cause of global ozone depletion.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Birks et al 05** ( John W., Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and Cooperative Institute for Research in </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, USA, Paul J. Crutzen, Max-Planck-Institute for Chemistry, Mainz, Germany and Scripps Institution of Oceanography, </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">La Jolla, California, USA, Raymond G. Roble, High Altitude Observatory, National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colorado, USA, “Frequent Ozone Depletion Resulting from Impacts of Asteroids and Comets,”, http://www.twobtech.com/asteroid.pdf) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__The impact with the Earth's oceans .............__ __transported to the stratosphere, with maximum ozone depletions occurring about three months following the impact.__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Ozone depletion causes extinction**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Greenpeace, 1995**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(“Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,” [[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html|//http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html//]].)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario ............... - the stakes are literally the continuation of life on earth. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Space-based detection is key to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**DAVID 2002** (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Military strategists and space ............. that keep an eye on Earth-circling satellites. __These__ same space sentinels __could__ serve double-time and __detect small asteroids__, he said</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**That would kill billions**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**FORROW ET AL 1998** (Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">A missile launch activated by false warning is thus possible in both ................. The World Health Organization has estimated that __this would result in billions of__ direct and indirect __casualties__ __worldwide.__4</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Small asteroid strike alone would kill millions**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**Worden 2002** </span>- United States Space Command, Peterson Air Force Base (October 24, S.P., “ Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (Neo) Threat. ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] pg. 101 )</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Most people know of the Tunguska ...............W**e know the orbits of just a few.**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Intentional war won’t occur and small conflicts won’t escalate**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**MANDELBAUM 1999** (Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR, </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Feb 25, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">My argument says, tacitly, that ........ __A pawn is now just a pawn, not a sentry standing guard against an attack on a king__.”</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">ECONOMIC INTERDEPENDENCE, SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, AND NUCLEAR DETERRENCE. THESE CHECKS ON CONFLICT ARE IRREVERSIBLE.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">FETTWEIS 2006</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Christopher J.(National Security Decision Making Department) US Naval War College International Studies Review 8, 677–697 4. ASP</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">However, one need not be convinced about the potential for ideas to .............. ask why anyone should believe that it could not.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**No risk of deliberate nuclear war – no countries have the capability**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**ROTHSTEIN ET AL 2004** (Linda, editor, Catherine, managing editor, and Jonas, assistant editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, BAS, November/December, http://www.thebulletin.org/article.php?art_ofn=nd04rothstein) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Is an incoming nuclear missile attack plausible? .............. __but__ a planned __attack from Moscow is extremely improbable__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Nuke war doesn’t lead to extinction**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Martin, 1982** (Brian, Professor of Social Sciences in the School of Social Sciences, Media and Communication at the University of Wollongong, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300 [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">To summarise the above points__, ...............__<span style="line-height: 19px;">. In most cases the exaggeration is unintended, since people holding or stating a belief in nuclear extinction are quite sincere.[15]</span></span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Impact Framing</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 3 is impact framing**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Key framing issue – humans are genetically pre-dispositioned to ignore long-term threats, causing paralysis – view the debate in terms of a millennia** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**VERSCHUUR 1996** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">There is an even more subtle reason ........... I am assuming that we care that our species will be around for a long time, and that this question is worth thinking about.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Extinction means even low probability warrants an aff ballot**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**POSNER 2004** (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__Even if our__ __insouciant reaction to small probabilities ............__, to incur some cost in higher taxes or otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Unpredictable catastrophes happen – overcome your assumptions about impacts that have not occurred and embrace the possibility of a black swan**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Taleb (2005) suggests that __hindsight bias and availability ............__but __may be biased in favor o____f the observed "acts of heroism". History books do not account for heroic preventive measures__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**Realize your desire for our arguments about the end of humanity to be false implicates**</span> **your decision calculus** – **traverse the illusion of comfort of the status quo and realize your vulnerability** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Wason's 2-4-6 task is a "cold" form of confirmation bias; __.........__ something about heuristics and biases in general, and disconfirmation bias in particular.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Intervention won’t happen – the bystander effect diffuses responsibility** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">My last bias comes, not from the field of heuristics and biases,............__one__single __bystander____,__ and ask that person to help - thereby __overcoming__ __the diffusion.__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**BARBEE 2009** (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]])//DT</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__It is generally accepted that__ __statistics and probability theory.............__ __probability theory is in the decision-making process for defense against NEOs.__</span>


===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Space based detection is key**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Worden 02** – Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(Brig. Gen. Simon P. Worden is Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif.; July 10, 2002; Speech by Gen. Simon Worden: "Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (NEO) Threat"; [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=8834]]; JN)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> Perhaps the most urgent mid-term task has already been begun. ............. __as comets that come at us from the direction of the sun. New space-surveillance systems capable of scanning the entire sky every few days are what's needed.__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The plan makes effective mitigation possible against all NEOs**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**NRC 2010**</span> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Combined ground- and space-based surveys have a number of advantages................. information on the population of objects smaller than 140 meters in diameter.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Space-based sensors would find new objects and facilitate exploration**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2.1. NEO Search: To implement this recommendation, __............__ __targets and threatening NEOs currently inaccessible to observationby ground-based systems__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The plan spills over to improve all other NEO missions** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__NASA’s NEO research is a “____three-dimensional” .............__, meeting the needs of managers, policy makers, the science community and the public.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Other actors start from scratch – NASA baseline surveys and technology is key**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**National Academies 2009** (The National Academies Press, Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report, Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board, Space Studies Board, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1)//DT|http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1) ]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__The United States is currently the only country ............__<span style="line-height: 19px;"> and mitigation of near-Earth objects based on an integrated assessment of the problem.=</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Now is key – the Mazlow window will close by 2025 that’s the last possible implementation of space programs**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Cordell 8 –** Postdoctoral Fellow of Astrophysics at Cal-Tech – (Bruce. Former Prof Physics @ CalState, has worked with NASA. “NASA Programs and MEPs” 5/11/8, [[http://21stcenturywaves.com/2008/05/11/nasa-programs-and-meps-a-brief-21stcenturywaves-perspective-2/bs]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Currently, the most important issue for humanity’s future – .............NASA still doesn’t really understand what its mission is…” Spudis recommends: “We’re going to the Moon to learn how to live and work on another world. It’s that simple.” </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NRC 2010** (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,”[[@http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing NEOs .......... into the NEO population as possible, especially imminent impactors.</span>


==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1AC Car Wash</span>== 
===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Plan: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should deploy space-based infrared telescopes and increase ground-based surveys to catalogue Near Earth Objects.**</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Inherency</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 1 is inherency**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Squo fails**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**a.) WISE program should have triggered the link to all of their disads – prefer the recency of our evidence – but still a threat from medium and small asteroids**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**AP 9/30 –**</span> ( 9/30/11, “ NASA identifies 90 percent of largest near-Earth asteroids” [[http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2011/09/nasa_identifies_90_percent_of.html,bs]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">NASA<span class="Underline"> researchers</span> also ..............equipped to detect<span class="Underline"> the more than a </span>million smallest asteroids<span class="Underline"> that could cause damage if they impact Earth</span>. The spacecraft recently ran out of coolant and is currently in hibernation.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**B.) Blind side – time frame of detection key to solve**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**Schweickart 2008** </span>– former astronaut (September 25, Russell, “Asteroid Threats: A Call for Global Response” http://www.space-explorers.org/ATACGR.pdf )</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Asteroid impacts occur on ............ Earth from the daylight side will give us little or no warning.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**C. Recent asteroid threat proves we are not prepared**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**Cleveland 7/17/11** </span>(“ Playing celestial chicken: editorial ” [[http://www.cleveland.com/opinion/index.ssf/2011/07/playing_celestial_chicken.html]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Whew! That was close --.........**, we'll have tried to do something about it long before that day arrives.**</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Big Asteroids</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 2 is collisions**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**VERSCHUUR 1996** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">In the past few years, the comet impact scenario has taken on a life of its own and the danger of asteroids has been added to the comet count. In the context of heightened interest in the threat, __reassuring predictions have...........__ __limitation of human nature that will determine our fate__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Current cosmic cycle makes earth ten times more likely to be hit**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**DAILY GALAXY 2-11-2010** (“A Deadly Orbit?” http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2010/02/a-deadly-orbit-the-solar-systems-journey-through-the-milky-way.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__Is there a genocidal countdown..........__ A rock doesn't just have to hit us, it has to be large enough to survive the truly fearsome forces that cause most to burn up on re-entry.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**McGUIRE 2002** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to what happened ................ , and sudden appearance, wc could do little about a new comet heading in our direction</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The scarcity of life in the universe proves both the probability and impact of our advantage**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**KAZAN 2011** (Casey, Owner of Galaxy Media LLC and graduate of Harvard University, “Tracking the Realtime Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids &comets- could it save the planet?”, The Daily Galaxy, Feb 8, __[[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)/DT|http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2011/02/tracking-the-realtime-threat-of-near-earth-asteroids-will-it-save-the-planet.html)//DT]]__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Stephen Hawking believes that __one of the...........__ bodies at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Small Asteroids</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 3 is the Ozone**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Asteroid detection prevents future small collisions which are a massive cause of global ozone depletion.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Birks et al 05** ( John W., Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and Cooperative Institute for Research in</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, USA, Paul J. Crutzen, Max-Planck-Institute for Chemistry, Mainz, Germany and Scripps Institution of Oceanography,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">La Jolla, California, USA, Raymond G. Roble, High Altitude Observatory, National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colorado, USA, “Frequent Ozone Depletion Resulting from Impacts of Asteroids and Comets,”, http://www.twobtech.com/asteroid.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__The impact with the Earth's oceans .............__ __transported to the stratosphere, with maximum ozone depletions occurring about three months following the impact.__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Ozone depletion causes extinction**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Greenpeace, 1995**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(“Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,” [[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html|//http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html//]].)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario ............... - the stakes are literally the continuation of life on earth.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Small asteroid strike alone would kill millions**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**Worden 2002** </span>- United States Space Command, Peterson Air Force Base (October 24, S.P., “ Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (Neo) Threat. ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] pg. 101 )</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Most people know of the Tunguska ...............W**e know the orbits of just a few.**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Intentional war won’t occur and small conflicts won’t escalate**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**MANDELBAUM 1999** (Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Feb 25, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">My argument says, tacitly, that ........ __A pawn is now just a pawn, not a sentry standing guard against an attack on a king__.”</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">ECONOMIC INTERDEPENDENCE, SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, AND NUCLEAR DETERRENCE. THESE CHECKS ON CONFLICT ARE IRREVERSIBLE.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">FETTWEIS 2006</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Christopher J.(National Security Decision Making Department) US Naval War College International Studies Review 8, 677–697 4. ASP</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">However, one need not be convinced about the potential for ideas to .............. ask why anyone should believe that it could not.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**No risk of deliberate nuclear war – no countries have the capability**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**ROTHSTEIN ET AL 2004** (Linda, editor, Catherine, managing editor, and Jonas, assistant editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, BAS, November/December, http://www.thebulletin.org/article.php?art_ofn=nd04rothstein)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Is an incoming nuclear missile attack plausible? .............. __but__ a planned __attack from Moscow is extremely improbable__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Nuke war doesn’t lead to extinction**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Martin, 1982** (Brian, Professor of Social Sciences in the School of Social Sciences, Media and Communication at the University of Wollongong, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300 [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">To summarise the above points__, ...............__. In most cases the exaggeration is unintended, since people holding or stating a belief in nuclear extinction are quite sincere.[15]</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Impact Framing</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Contention 3 is impact framing**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Key framing issue – humans are genetically pre-dispositioned to ignore long-term threats, causing paralysis – view the debate in terms of a millennia**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**VERSCHUUR 1996** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">There is an even more subtle reason ........... I am assuming that we care that our species will be around for a long time, and that this question is worth thinking about.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Extinction means even low probability warrants an aff ballot**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**POSNER 2004** (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__Even if our__ __insouciant reaction to small probabilities ............__, to incur some cost in higher taxes or otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Unpredictable catastrophes happen – overcome your assumptions about impacts that have not occurred and embrace the possibility of a black swan**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Taleb (2005) suggests that __hindsight bias and availability ............__but __may be biased in favor o____f the observed "acts of heroism". History books do not account for heroic preventive measures__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**Realize your desire for our arguments about the end of humanity to be false implicates**</span> **your decision calculus** – **traverse the illusion of comfort of the status quo and realize your vulnerability**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Wason's 2-4-6 task is a "cold" form of confirmation bias; __.........__ something about heuristics and biases in general, and disconfirmation bias in particular.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Intervention won’t happen – the bystander effect diffuses responsibility**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">My last bias comes, not from the field of heuristics and biases,............__one__single __bystander____,__ and ask that person to help - thereby __overcoming__ __the diffusion.__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**BARBEE 2009** (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]])//DT</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__It is generally accepted that__ __statistics and probability theory.............__ __probability theory is in the decision-making process for defense against NEOs.__</span>


===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Space based detection is key**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Worden 02** – Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(Brig. Gen. Simon P. Worden is Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif.; July 10, 2002; Speech by Gen. Simon Worden: "Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (NEO) Threat"; [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=8834]]; JN)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Perhaps the most urgent mid-term task has already been begun. ............. __as comets that come at us from the direction of the sun. New space-surveillance systems capable of scanning the entire sky every few days are what's needed.__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The plan makes effective mitigation possible against all NEOs**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">**NRC 2010**</span> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Combined ground- and space-based surveys have a number of advantages................. information on the population of objects smaller than 140 meters in diameter.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Space-based sensors would find new objects and facilitate exploration**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2.1. NEO Search: To implement this recommendation, __............__ __targets and threatening NEOs currently inaccessible to observationby ground-based systems__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The plan spills over to improve all other NEO missions**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NAC 2010** (“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__NASA’s NEO research is a “____three-dimensional” .............__, meeting the needs of managers, policy makers, the science community and the public.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Other actors start from scratch – NASA baseline surveys and technology is key**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**National Academies 2009** (The National Academies Press, Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies: Interim Report, Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board, Space Studies Board, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1)//DT|http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12738&page=1)]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__The United States is currently the only country ............__ and mitigation of near-Earth objects based on an integrated assessment of the problem.=</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Now is key – the Mazlow window will close by 2025 that’s the last possible implementation of space programs**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Cordell 8 –** Postdoctoral Fellow of Astrophysics at Cal-Tech – (Bruce. Former Prof Physics @ CalState, has worked with NASA. “NASA Programs and MEPs” 5/11/8, [[http://21stcenturywaves.com/2008/05/11/nasa-programs-and-meps-a-brief-21stcenturywaves-perspective-2/bs]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Currently, the most important issue for humanity’s future – .............NASA still doesn’t really understand what its mission is…” Spudis recommends: “We’re going to the Moon to learn how to live and work on another world. It’s that simple.”</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NRC 2010** (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,”[[@http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing NEOs .......... into the NEO population as possible, especially imminent impactors.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1AC University of Michigan Round 7</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Plan</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The United States federal government should develop space based solar power.**</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Hegemony</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**First is hegemony**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**three internal links:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**First is the Budget**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Petroleum demand will increase as reserves diminish, prices will skyrocket**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parthemore and Nagl 10*</span>Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American Security **Dr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf]]</span>, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **DOD cannot be assured of continued … involved with all energy sources.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> Rising energy costs decimate the DOD’s budget</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parthemore and Nagl 10</span>*Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American Security** Dr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf|__http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf__]], “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__The Department of Defense …__ against future price fluctuations of this scale.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**And energy is the biggest internal link to the budget**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Beach 11</span> *Dr. Fred C. Beach is a Post-Doc Fellow at the Center for International Energy and Environmental Policy at The University of Texas at Austin. He is a retired Naval Officer and qualified Submariner, Naval Aviator, Surface Warfare Officer, and Acquisition Professional [[[http://www.ensec.org/index.php?view=article&catid=114%3Acontent0211&id=281%3Adods-addiction-to-oil-is-there-a-cure&tmpl=component&print=1&page=&option=com_content&Itemid=374]], March 15th 2011, “DOD’s Addiction to Oil: Is there a Cure?”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">When it comes __to reduci__ng __a budget__, … million barrels at a cost of approximately $16 billion, and roughly 73% of this petroleum was used for aviation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Independently, adequate defense spending is key to the perception of hegemony and prevents wars around the globe**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kagan 11</span> Robert Kagan Senior is a fellow at Brookings [1/24/11 “The Price of Power: The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs,” Weekly Standard]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__Today the international situation is …__ the United States makes commitments it cannot meet except at high risk of failure.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Second is Operational Capacity**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**DOD oil dependence straightjackets our forces and operational capacity, this hampers power projection and makes our military posture unsustainable**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Crowley et. al 7</span>*Thomas D. Crowley is a Policy Consultant for LMI **Tonya D. Corrie is a policy consultant for LMI** *David B. Diamond is a policy consultant for LMIStuart D. Funk is a policy Consultant for LMI*Wilhelm A. Hansen, Andrea D. Stenhoff, and Daniel C. Swift are policy consultants for LMI**LMI is a governmental consulting organization [<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003]]</span>, april 2007, “Transforming the Way DOD Looks at Energy”]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **The goal of our security strategies is to … unsustainable in the long term.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> Oil dependence ensures that we can’t respond to global crises, it makes it too expensive to conduct ALL operations </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bender 7</span>*Bryan Bender is a Staff Reporter for the Boston Globe** The study cited is from LMI a governmental consulting firm ***Milton R. Copulos is president of the national defense council foundation [[[http://www.boston.com/news/nation/washington/articles/2007/05/01/pentagon_study_says_oil_reliance_strains_military/?page=2|__http://www.boston.com/news/nation/washington/articles/2007/05/01/pentagon_study_says_oil_reliance_strains_military/?page=2__]], May 1st 2007, “Pentagon Study says oil reliance strains military”]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **__WASHINGTON -- A new study ordered …__ subordinates," the report says.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> And the link only goes our way, we’ve passed peak oil which means prices only go up from here, try or die for the aff</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hodge 11</span>*Nick Hodge is editor of Energy and Capital an online journal specializing in investment analysis in the new energy economy [[[http://www.energyandcapital.com/articles/2015-end-of-the-oil-age/1609|__http://www.energyandcapital.com/articles/2015-end-of-the-oil-age/1609__]], July 1st 2011, “2015: End of the Oil Age”]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **If you're insolent enough to seek the … per day instead of the IEA's more optimistic forecast of 105 mbd.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%; text-decoration: none;"> Third is Supplies</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%; text-decoration: none;"> Oil dependency ties down the Army’s budget and undermines its fighting capability </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **<span class="Author-Date">Wharton 9</span> (University of Pennsylvania School of Business, 1/30/09 “U.S. Military Hopes to Be**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **Energized by Alternative Fuels” Wharton Aerospace and Defense Report [[http://executiveeducation.wharton.upenn.edu/wharton-aerospace-defense-report/upload/Military-Hopes-Energized-by-Fuel.pdf]])**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **<span class="DebateUnderline">__The U.S. military is the world’s single__ __…__ </span>that defense contractors must seriously consider.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> SBSP solves flexible response and supply lines – provides mobile energy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **<span class="Author-Date">NSSO 7</span> (National Security Space Office Report, 150 person international expert collaboration, 10/10/7 “Space‐Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security” [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]])**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **For the DoD specifically, <span class="DebateUnderline">__beamed energy from__ __…__ __to a strategically secure energy supply__</span>.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> Flexible response is key to heg – we also solve oil shocks that devastate primacy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> LMI 7- **(<span class="Author-Date">LMI</span> Government Consulting, 4/20<span class="Author-Date">07</span>, Thomas D. Crowley Tanya D. Corrie David B. Diamond Stuart D. Funk Wilhelm A. Hansen Andrea D. Stenhoff Daniel C. Swift, “TRANSFORMING THE WAY DOD LOOKS AT ENERGY AN APPROACH TO ESTABLISHING AN ENERGY STRATEGY,” http://www.oft.osd.mil/library/library_files/document_404_FT602T1_Transforming%20the%20Way%20DoD%20Looks%20at%20Energy_Final%20Report.pdf)**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **<span class="DebateUnderline">__Increasing the energy efficiency of__ __…__ </span>an environment of increasing energy uncertainty.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> And its try or die, disruptions in supply can happen at any time </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"> **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parthemore and Rogers 10</span> *Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American Security** Will Rogers is a research assistant at the Center for New American Security [[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Sustaining%20Security_Parthemore%20Rogers.pdf]],June 2010, “Sustaining Security How Natural Resources Influence National Security”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__Recognition of the geostrategic, …__ a top concern by many analysts.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Overall, Collapse of primacy causes global nuclear conflicts**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Kagan, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7 -** (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">This is a good thing, and it should __…__ will provide an easier path.</span>




===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">BMD</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The US is weaponizing space now – Obama’s calls for cooperation are just a ploy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Haddick 10** – editor of Small Wars Journal and Former Director of Research of the Fremont Group (Robert, April 30, “This Week At War: Star Wars in the Age of Obama”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/30/this_week_at_war_star_wars_in_the_age_of_obama]] WSX)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__The Pentagon sends mixed messages … hear the wrong message.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**That weaponization effort will fail and SPS makes it effective – it hardens satellites, enhances mobility, allows rapid repairs, cheaper launches, and is critical** **to space based missile defense**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Ramos 2000** US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, [[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]) </span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">In addition to the terrestrial … in space to energize the RF beam. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**space based BMD is key to to both deterrence of acquisition and missile defense**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Pfaltzgraff et al 9** (Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,” [[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__The Threat Twenty-first century threats to the … described in greater detail below.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Syrian proliferation escalates to nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Joshi 2000** - Post-Doctoral Fellow @ the Center for Non-Proliferation (Joshi, “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA, Vol XXII, No 12. 2000, EBSCO)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Arab WMD Development A common argument … movement and civilian morale.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Even if SBMD fails deterrence by denial solves**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Sheldon 08, - Fellow at the Marshall Institute** [John Sheldon - was program director for Space Security at the Centre for De-fence and International Security Studies, Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, “Deterrence in Space”, Nov. 13, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf]], Accessed July 14 2011]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__There are more concrete …__ systems that are being used in orbit.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Government demonstration is the only way create a viable launch market</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf|www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]], FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The second camp, primarily … __care of itself.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**weaponization inevitable**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Richard D**. Fisher, 11** -- a senior fellow @ International Assessment & Strategy Center in Alexandria, Va, (1/20/11, article)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">China's Jan. 11 test of exoatmospheric missile … and in turn threaten the region's economic growth.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**SPS inevitable**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**NSSO, 7** (National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … (ITU) is presently ongoing.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The drive to dominate space is inevitable**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Cooper 9** – Analyst Assistant at National Research Council (Brent, “Lost in Space: A Realist and Marxist Analysis of US Space Militarization”, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization/ts|http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization//ts]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**__In international relations__**__,__ neorealism … Marxist analysis of the space weaponization regime.</span>

==1AC Blake== 
===Plan=== 
The United States __[[home|federal]]__ government should substantially increase its development of __[[home|solar]]__ sails.
===Warming=== 
<span class="Underline">**Warming is real and causes extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Costello 11**, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority………. and other mammals would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable. </span>

**Its real and humans are causing it – emissions outweigh – action is key**
**Fitzpatrick et al 06** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Melanie Fitzpatrick (Earth and Space Sciences and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington and UCS consultant) prepared this summary with input from Brenda Ekwurzel (Union of Concerned Scientists) and reviews by Philip Mote (Climate Impacts Group at the University of Washington and Washington's state climatologist), Richard Gammon (Chemistry, Oceanography, and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington) and Peter Frumhoff (Union of Concerned Scientists), “Human Fingerprints,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/science_and_impacts/science/global-warming-human.html,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;"> Earth's surface has undergone unprecedented warming over the last century, particularly over the last two decades. Astonishingly……….. This will require immediate and sustained action to reduce our heat-trapping emissions through increased energy efficiency, expanding our use of renewable energy, and slowing deforestation (among other solutions). </span>

**Feedbacks are net positive—must act now to prevent runaway warming**
**Hansen,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">head of NASA Goddard Institute and professor of Environmental Sciences, Columbia University</span>**, 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James E. Hanson. Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book </span>__State of the Wild.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April. http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf)</span>
Fast feedbacks—changes that occur quickly……. methane, carbon dioxide, and nitrous oxide—all increase with the warming of oceans and land. These positive feedbacks amplify climate change over decades, centuries, and longer


**Global trends outweigh the heat island effect – wind proves**
**Pearce 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, environmental consultant and BEMA environment journalist of the year, 2007 [Fred, With speed and violence: why scientists fear tipping points in climate change, p. 13] </span>
__A__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nother </span>__serious criticism of the surface-temperature trends is that….. So, while nobody denies that the urban heat island ef­fect exists, it is not sufficient to upset the reliability of global trends in thermometer readings__

**Plan Solves**

**a.) Clean tech – Solar sails can power the earth 100 billion times over**
**National Review Online 10** (Greg Pollowitz, “Solar Sail Could Power the Entire Earth” http://www.nationalreview.com/planet-gore/248361/solar-sail-could-power-entire-earth-greg-pollowitz, 9/30/10,bs)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solar and wind power have long been two of the main contenders…. fulfill the whole planet’s energy needs day and night regardless of environmental conditions. </span>


**b.) Dyson Dots – leads to clean energy**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

__For cooling Earth, it does not matter how the Dyson Dot reflect solar radiation…… good thing, and benefit the biosphere. Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.__

**c.) Dots also shield the sun**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

Geoengineering, or planetary engineering, is the application of technology for the purpose………… the largest industry on Earth, $3-5 trillion per year, depending on crude oil prices



**d.) large shield Shading – solves independent of emissions**
**Angel and Worden 6**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making moon sun-shades from moondust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html,bs)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Earth's surface temperature has risen by about 1 degree Fahrenheit…. Now is the time to begin in earnest the development and testing of these critical technical steps. </span>


**We have 30 quadrillion square kilometers to put the solar dyson dots**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gravity keeps our feet on the ground, satellites in orbit………… Earth-Moon system. However, for purposes of shading sunlight on Earth, the “sweet spot” is a lot smaller, less than 1 percent of the region </span>


**The fourth acceleration allows it to be put in L1**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

__A typical solar sail needs a mass:area ratio about 10-20 grams per square meter….. For completeness, we note that the effect of solar wind is three orders of magnitude smaller, and Luna will impart a periodic, but predictable, disturbance__

===Solar storms=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solar storms are coming strong </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Moskowitz 8/11</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,”[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]] //bs]//</span>
//**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solar flares</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">like the huge one that erupted on the sun early today…………. be vital in monitoring the sun during its active phase, researchers said. </span>**//

//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The magnitude of these will be huge – massive solar storms make a global disaster inevitable</span>**//
//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Derbyshire 11</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">[David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]] </span>//bs]
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm'</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">………</span>__** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">province of Quebec, the U.S. space agency said. </span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Storms kill the grid and cause nuclear meltdown. Impact is extinction.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">IB Times </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">9/14/</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> International Business Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm,bs]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar…………. . If Fukushima, all by itself, could unleash a tidal wave of deadly radiation all by itself, imagine a world where hundreds of nuclear facilities go into a total meltdown simultaneously. </span>



**Solar sails can provide early warning of solar storms to satellites—allows preparation time**
**Vulpetti, et. al, 7** – Ph.D, member of he International Academy of Astronautics, Associate Fellow of AIAA, and Member of the Planetary Society(2007, Giovanni Vulpetti, Les Johnson, and Gregory Matloff, Solar sails : a novel approach to interplanetary travel, p. 91-110)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even better, </span>__a sailcraft can be positioned in a direct line between the Sun and Earth,……….. even for astronauts who will be working on the Moon, far from their lunar base.__


**<span style="background-color: white;">They solve – getting past the elliptical point is key </span>**
**Vulpetti, et. al, 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Ph.D, member of he International Academy of Astronautics, Associate Fellow of AIAA, and Member of the Planetary Society(2007, Giovanni Vulpetti, Les Johnson, and Gregory Matloff, Solar sails : a novel approach to interplanetary travel, p. 91-110)</span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Solar sails are</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">especially </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">effective at performing missions that</span>____<span style="background-color: white;">………… implement the mission with a square, 3-axis stabilized sail no more than 150 meters on a side. </span>__



**Early warning allows us to put satellites in safe mode and disconnect transformers**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Tony </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Phillips</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Production editor of Science at NASA, </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">2010</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[“As the Sun Awakens, NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather”, Science at NASA, 6/4/10, available online at http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/, accessed 8/23/11]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Earth and space are about to come into contact……….. They are an important complement to our own GOES and POES satellites, which focus more on the near-Earth environment." </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Ace fails in this sun cycle </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Brooks 9 - </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in quantum physics, (3/23/09 Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, bs)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">However, observations of the sun and magnetometer readings….. It was built to look at average conditions rather than extremes," Baker say </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">SOHO is slow and inaccurate </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Brooks 9 - </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in quantum physics, (3/23/09 Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, bs)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">There is no replacement…..Capability </span>

===No war=== 
**a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics**
**Deudney et al, 09,**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent….. peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge. </span>


**b.) Trends Prove**
**Mueller 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, a professor of political science at Ohio State University, [John, Political Science Quarterly, “War Has Almost Ceased to Exist:</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">An Assessment”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tigger.uic.edu/~bvaler/Mueller%20War%20Dead.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE PRESENT CONDITION No matter…….substantial phenomenon</span>

**c.)**
**Robinson 01**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command (Paul, March 22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

Let me then state….. necessary ingredients to help shape and maintain a stable and peaceful world

==1AC Golden Desert== 
===**Plan**=== 
Some variation of

The United States __[[home|federal government]]__ should deploy solar sails and Dyson dots beyond the earths mesosphere.

===**Warming**=== 
<span class="Underline">**Warming is real and causes extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Costello 11**, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority………. and other mammals would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable.</span>

**Its real and humans are causing it – emissions outweigh – action is key**
**Fitzpatrick et al 06** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Melanie Fitzpatrick (Earth and Space Sciences and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington and UCS consultant) prepared this summary with input from Brenda Ekwurzel (Union of Concerned Scientists) and reviews by Philip Mote (Climate Impacts Group at the University of Washington and Washington's state climatologist), Richard Gammon (Chemistry, Oceanography, and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington) and Peter Frumhoff (Union of Concerned Scientists), “Human Fingerprints,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/science_and_impacts/science/global-warming-human.html,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Earth's surface has undergone unprecedented warming over the last century, particularly over the last two decades. Astonishingly……….. This will require immediate and sustained action to reduce our heat-trapping emissions through increased energy efficiency, expanding our use of renewable energy, and slowing deforestation (among other solutions).</span>

**Feedbacks are net positive—must act now to prevent runaway warming**
**Hansen,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">head of NASA Goddard Institute and professor of Environmental Sciences, Columbia University</span>**, 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James E. Hanson. Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book </span>__State of the Wild.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April. http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf)</span>
Fast feedbacks—changes that occur quickly……. methane, carbon dioxide, and nitrous oxide—all increase with the warming of oceans and land. These positive feedbacks amplify climate change over decades, centuries, and longer


**Global trends outweigh the heat island effect – wind proves**
**Pearce 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, environmental consultant and BEMA environment journalist of the year, 2007 [Fred, With speed and violence: why scientists fear tipping points in climate change, p. 13]</span>
__A__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nother </span>__serious criticism of the surface-temperature trends is that….. So, while nobody denies that the urban heat island ef­fect exists, it is not sufficient to upset the reliability of global trends in thermometer readings__

**Plan Solves**

**a.) Clean tech – Solar sails can power the earth 100 billion times over**
**National Review Online 10** (Greg Pollowitz, “Solar Sail Could Power the Entire Earth” http://www.nationalreview.com/planet-gore/248361/solar-sail-could-power-entire-earth-greg-pollowitz, 9/30/10,bs)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solar and wind power have long been two of the main contenders…. fulfill the whole planet’s energy needs day and night regardless of environmental conditions.</span>


**b.) Dyson Dots – leads to clean energy**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

__For cooling Earth, it does not matter how the Dyson Dot reflect solar radiation…… good thing, and benefit the biosphere. Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.__

**c.) Dots also shield the sun**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

Geoengineering, or planetary engineering, is the application of technology for the purpose………… the largest industry on Earth, $3-5 trillion per year, depending on crude oil prices



**d.) large shield Shading – solves independent of emissions**
**Angel and Worden 6**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making moon sun-shades from moondust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html,bs)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Earth's surface temperature has risen by about 1 degree Fahrenheit…. Now is the time to begin in earnest the development and testing of these critical technical steps.</span>


**We have 30 quadrillion square kilometers to put the solar dyson dots**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gravity keeps our feet on the ground, satellites in orbit………… Earth-Moon system. However, for purposes of shading sunlight on Earth, the “sweet spot” is a lot smaller, less than 1 percent of the region</span>


**The fourth acceleration allows it to be put in L1**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

__A typical solar sail needs a mass:area ratio about 10-20 grams per square meter….. For completeness, we note that the effect of solar wind is three orders of magnitude smaller, and Luna will impart a periodic, but predictable, disturbance__

===Solar storms=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solar storms are coming strong</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Moskowitz 8/11</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,”[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]] //bs]//</span>
//**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solar flares</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">like the huge one that erupted on the sun early today…………. be vital in monitoring the sun during its active phase, researchers said.</span>**//

//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The magnitude of these will be huge – massive solar storms make a global disaster inevitable</span>**//
//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Derbyshire 11</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">[David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]] </span>//bs]
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm'</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">………</span>__** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">province of Quebec, the U.S. space agency said.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Storms kill the grid and cause nuclear meltdown. Impact is extinction.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">IB Times </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">9/14/</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> International Business Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm,bs]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar…………. . If Fukushima, all by itself, could unleash a tidal wave of deadly radiation all by itself, imagine a world where hundreds of nuclear facilities go into a total meltdown simultaneously.</span>



**Solar sails can provide early warning of solar storms to satellites—allows preparation time**
**Vulpetti, et. al, 7** – Ph.D, member of he International Academy of Astronautics, Associate Fellow of AIAA, and Member of the Planetary Society(2007, Giovanni Vulpetti, Les Johnson, and Gregory Matloff, Solar sails : a novel approach to interplanetary travel, p. 91-110)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even better, </span>__a sailcraft can be positioned in a direct line between the Sun and Earth,……….. even for astronauts who will be working on the Moon, far from their lunar base.__


**<span style="background-color: white;">They solve – getting past the elliptical point is key</span>**
**Vulpetti, et. al, 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Ph.D, member of he International Academy of Astronautics, Associate Fellow of AIAA, and Member of the Planetary Society(2007, Giovanni Vulpetti, Les Johnson, and Gregory Matloff, Solar sails : a novel approach to interplanetary travel, p. 91-110)</span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Solar sails are</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">especially </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">effective at performing missions that</span>____<span style="background-color: white;">………… implement the mission with a square, 3-axis stabilized sail no more than 150 meters on a side.</span>__



**Early warning allows us to put satellites in safe mode and disconnect transformers**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Tony </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Phillips</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Production editor of Science at NASA, </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">2010</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[“As the Sun Awakens, NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather”, Science at NASA, 6/4/10, available online at http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/, accessed 8/23/11]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Earth and space are about to come into contact……….. They are an important complement to our own GOES and POES satellites, which focus more on the near-Earth environment."</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Ace fails in this sun cycle</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Brooks 9 - </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in quantum physics, (3/23/09 Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, bs)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">However, observations of the sun and magnetometer readings….. It was built to look at average conditions rather than extremes," Baker say</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">SOHO is slow and inaccurate</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Brooks 9 - </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in quantum physics, (3/23/09 Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, bs)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">There is no replacement…..Capability</span>

===No war=== 
**a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics**
**Deudney et al, 09,**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent….. peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>


**b.) Trends Prove**
**Mueller 09**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, a professor of political science at Ohio State University, [John, Political Science Quarterly, “War Has Almost Ceased to Exist:</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">An Assessment”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tigger.uic.edu/~bvaler/Mueller%20War%20Dead.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE PRESENT CONDITION No matter…….substantial phenomenon</span>

**c.)**
**Robinson 01**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command (Paul, March 22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

Let me then state….. necessary ingredients to help shape and maintain a stable and peaceful world
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">1AC Harvard </span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Plan**</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Some variation of</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Glenbrook South (IL) - Ben Wolch & Bobby Shaw|federal government]] should deploy solar sails and Dyson dots beyond the earths mesosphere.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Golden Desert-Warming]]**Warming**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Warming is real and causes extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Costello 11**, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority………. and other mammals would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Its real and humans are causing it – emissions outweigh – action is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fitzpatrick et al 06</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">(</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Melanie Fitzpatrick (Earth and Space Sciences and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington and UCS consultant) prepared this summary with input from Brenda Ekwurzel (Union of Concerned Scientists) and reviews by Philip Mote (Climate Impacts Group at the University of Washington and Washington's state climatologist), Richard Gammon (Chemistry, Oceanography, and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington) and Peter Frumhoff (Union of Concerned Scientists), “Human Fingerprints,”</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/science_and_impacts/science/global-warming-human.html]],)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;">Earth's surface has undergone unprecedented warming over the last century, particularly over the last two decades. Astonishingly……….. This will require immediate and sustained action to reduce our heat-trapping emissions through increased energy efficiency, expanding our use of renewable energy, and slowing deforestation (among other solutions).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Feedbacks are net positive—must act now to prevent runaway warming</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hansen,</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">head of NASA Goddard Institute and professor of Environmental Sciences, Columbia University</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 2008</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(James E. Hanson. Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">State of the Wild.</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April.[[http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fast feedbacks—changes that occur quickly……. methane, carbon dioxide, and nitrous oxide—all increase with the warming of oceans and land. These positive feedbacks amplify climate change over decades, centuries, and longer</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global trends outweigh the heat island effect – wind proves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pearce 2007</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, environmental consultant and BEMA environment journalist of the year, 2007 [Fred, With speed and violence: why scientists fear tipping points in climate change, p. 13]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">nother </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">serious criticism of the surface-temperature trends is that….. So, while nobody denies that the urban heat island ef­fect exists, it is not sufficient to upset the reliability of global trends in thermometer readings</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan Solves</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a.) Clean tech – Solar sails can power the earth 100 billion times over</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National Review Online 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Greg Pollowitz, “Solar Sail Could Power the Entire Earth” [[http://www.nationalreview.com/planet-gore/248361/solar-sail-could-power-entire-earth-greg-pollowitz]], 9/30/10,bs)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Solar and wind power have long been two of the main contenders…. fulfill the whole planet’s energy needs day and night regardless of environmental conditions.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b.) Dyson Dots – leads to clean energy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Roy et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS”[[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For cooling Earth, it does not matter how the Dyson Dot reflect solar radiation…… good thing, and benefit the biosphere. Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c.) Dots also shield the sun</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Roy et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS”[[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Geoengineering, or planetary engineering, is the application of technology for the purpose………… the largest industry on Earth, $3-5 trillion per year, depending on crude oil prices</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">d.) large shield Shading – solves independent of emissions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Angel and Worden 6</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making moon sun-shades from moondust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra,[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html,bs]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Earth's surface temperature has risen by about 1 degree Fahrenheit…. Now is the time to begin in earnest the development and testing of these critical technical steps.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have 30 quadrillion square kilometers to put the solar dyson dots</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Roy et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS”[[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Gravity keeps our feet on the ground, satellites in orbit………… Earth-Moon system. However, for purposes of shading sunlight on Earth, the “sweet spot” is a lot smaller, less than 1 percent of the region</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The fourth acceleration allows it to be put in L1</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Roy et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS”[[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A typical solar sail needs a mass:area ratio about 10-20 grams per square meter….. For completeness, we note that the effect of solar wind is three orders of magnitude smaller, and Luna will impart a periodic, but predictable, disturbance</span>__

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Golden Desert-Solar storms]]Solar storms</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solar storms are coming strong</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Moskowitz 8/11</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,”[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]] //bs]//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solar flares</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">like the huge one that erupted on the sun early today…………. be vital in monitoring the sun during its active phase, researchers said.</span>**</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The magnitude of these will be huge – massive solar storms make a global disaster inevitable</span>**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Derbyshire 11</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">[David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]] </span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">bs]</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm'</span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">………</span>__</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">province of Quebec, the U.S. space agency said.</span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Storms kill the grid and cause nuclear meltdown. Impact is extinction.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">IB Times </span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">9/14/</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">2011</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> International Business Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm,bs]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar…………. . If Fukushima, all by itself, could unleash a tidal wave of deadly radiation all by itself, imagine a world where hundreds of nuclear facilities go into a total meltdown simultaneously.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solar sails can provide early warning of solar storms to satellites—allows preparation time</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vulpetti, et. al, 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Ph.D, member of he International Academy of Astronautics, Associate Fellow of AIAA, and Member of the Planetary Society(2007, Giovanni Vulpetti, Les Johnson, and Gregory Matloff, Solar sails : a novel approach to interplanetary travel, p. 91-110)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Even better, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a sailcraft can be positioned in a direct line between the Sun and Earth,……….. even for astronauts who will be working on the Moon, far from their lunar base.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: white;">They solve – getting past the elliptical point is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vulpetti, et. al, 7</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– Ph.D, member of he International Academy of Astronautics, Associate Fellow of AIAA, and Member of the Planetary Society(2007, Giovanni Vulpetti, Les Johnson, and Gregory Matloff, Solar sails : a novel approach to interplanetary travel, p. 91-110)</span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Solar sails are</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">especially </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">effective at performing missions that</span>____<span style="background-color: white;">………… implement the mission with a square, 3-axis stabilized sail no more than 150 meters on a side.</span>__



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Early warning allows us to put satellites in safe mode and disconnect transformers</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Tony </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Phillips</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Production editor of Science at NASA, </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">2010</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[“As the Sun Awakens, NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather”, Science at NASA, 6/4/10, available online at [[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]], accessed 8/23/11]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Earth and space are about to come into contact……….. They are an important complement to our own GOES and POES satellites, which focus more on the near-Earth environment."</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Ace fails in this sun cycle</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Brooks 9 - </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in quantum physics, (3/23/09 Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, bs)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">However, observations of the sun and magnetometer readings….. It was built to look at average conditions rather than extremes," Baker say</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">SOHO is slow and inaccurate</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Brooks 9 - </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in quantum physics, (3/23/09 Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, bs)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">There is no replacement…..Capability</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Golden Desert-No war]]No war</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deudney et al, 09,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent….. peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b.) Trends Prove</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mueller 09</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, a professor of political science at Ohio State University, [John, Political Science Quarterly, “War Has Almost Ceased to Exist:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">An Assessment”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tigger.uic.edu/~bvaler/Mueller%20War%20Dead.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">THE PRESENT CONDITION No matter…….substantial phenomenon</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">c.)</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robinson 01</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> – President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command (Paul, March 22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Let me then state….. necessary ingredients to help shape and maintain a stable and peaceful world</span>
==1AC Harvard Round 4== 
===Plan=== 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increasing is deployment of solar sails for dyson dots and a mission to mars </span>
===Warming=== 

<span class="Underline">**Advantage 1 is Warming – it is real and causes extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Costello 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Advocacy about the health consequences ……</span><span class="Underline"> other mammals </span>would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible<span class="Underline">, therefore </span>making many environments uninhabitable<span class="Underline">. </span>

**Plan Solves – Dyson Dots lead to clean energy**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__For cooling Earth, it does not matter how the Dyson Dot reflect solar radiation …….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.</span>

**Its real and humans are causing it – emissions outweigh – action is key**
**Fitzpatrick et al 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Melanie Fitzpatrick (Earth and Space Sciences and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington and UCS consultant) prepared this summary with input from Brenda Ekwurzel (Union of Concerned Scientists) and reviews by Philip Mote (Climate Impacts Group at the University of Washington and Washington's state climatologist), Richard Gammon (Chemistry, Oceanography, and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington) and Peter Frumhoff (Union of Concerned Scientists), “Human Fingerprints,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/science_and_impacts/science/global-warming-human.html,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Earth's surface has undergone unprecedented warming over the last century, particularly over the last two decades. Astonishingly, </span>**__……..__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This will require immediate and sustained action to reduce our heat-trapping emissions through increased energy efficiency, expanding our use of renewable energy, and slowing deforestation (among other solutions).</span>
**Feedbacks are net positive—must act now to prevent runaway warming**
**Hansen,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">head of NASA Goddard Institute and professor of Environmental Sciences, Columbia University</span>**, 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James E. Hanson. Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book </span>__State of the Wild.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April. http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf)</span>
__Fast feedbacks__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—changes that occur quickly in response to temperature change—</span>__amplify__ __the ………__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These positive feedbacks amplify climate change over decades, centuries, an</span>

**Global trends outweigh the heat island effect – wind proves**
**Pearce 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, environmental consultant and BEMA environment journalist of the year, 2007 [Fred, With speed and violence: why scientists fear tipping points in climate change, p. 13] </span>
__A__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nother </span>__serious criticism of the surface-temperature trends is that measurements by …….. while nobody denies that the urban heat island ef­fect exists, it is not sufficient to upset the reliability of global trends in thermometer readings.__

**Dyson dots would displace carbon burners from the grid – also independently shield solar radiation**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Geoengineering, or planetary engineering, is the application of technology for the purpose of influencing the properties of a planet on a global scale</span>__…….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and petroleum is already the largest industry on Earth, $3-5 trillion per year, depending on crude oil prices </span>

**Large shield shading solves warming regardless of any fluctuations in emissions**
**Angel and Worden 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making moon sun-shades from moondust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html,bs)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Earth's surface temperature has risen by about 1 degree Fahrenheit in the past century, with accelerated warming during the past two decades. There is new and stronger evidence that most of the ……..</span> __would **certainly be of benefit to the entire population of Earth**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Now is the time to begin in earnest the development and testing of these critical technical steps. </span>

**Energy from space move us away from fossil fuel**
**Flournoy 11 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University (Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book)</span>
__One of the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> obvious </span>__opportunities for solar power satellites is__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to become an on……. (and possibly investors) in the Sunsat business to guarantee a sustainable night-and-day fuel source. </span>

**Plan transitions the global economy**
**Kammen 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Public Policy @ UC Berkeley (Daniel, "Green Jobs Created by Global Warming Initiative," September 25th, http://www.unep.org/civil_society/GCSF9/pdfs/karmen-senate.pdf,bs) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to supporting domestic job creation, …….</span> __of the clean energy sector will likely positively impact the ability and the actions of a number of emerging economies to ‘go green’.__

===Hegemony=== 

**Advantage 2 is Hegemony – it solves war**
**Zhang and Shi 1/22**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the </span>__global distribution of power is shifting__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…….. anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**Social science proves**
**Wohlforth 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is why such theories seem irrelevant to interactions among great powers in an international ……..</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__scarce, and competitions__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for status</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__tend to be zero sum__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.9</span>

**So do empirics**
**Drezner 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas smakestaring at each other through artillery ……… the use of force potentially more attractive, because of the minimization of spillover effects.</span>

**Even the perception of it solves – there’s no root cause of war**
**Moore 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, pages 41-2.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic …….. in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?</span>

**Controlling energy key to hard and soft power**
**Padilla 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, [[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“We become just byperforming just actions, temperateby performingtemperateactions,bravebyperformingbrave……… </span>__Without__ __true energy independence our ability to__ __attract__ __the__ __world to__ __shared____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>____goals and__ __endeavors__ __become__ __critically__ __handicapped.__

<span class="Underline">**Human spaceflight key to leadership – however the failing mission to mars is causing a decline** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wolfgang 11/15**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ben, national reporter for The Washington Times [“Budgeting woes could derail U.S. role in space exploration” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/nov/15/budgeting-woes-could-derail-us-role-in-space-explo/] </span>
The days of U.S. leadership in space<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> exploration </span>could be coming to an end<span style="font-size: 8pt;">……. </span>as an unreliable, schizophrenic agency<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he said. “NASA could be left to fly its own missions. Meanwhile, other international space agencies will collaborate, and in time, they may well be able to fly space missions that were once the domain of NASA.”</span>

**Solar sails allow us to complete the Mars mission – also allows for a base to be created**
**Friedman 7 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is cofounder of The Planetary Society. In the 1970s he worked at JPL on deep space missions, including Mariner-VenusMercury, Voyager and Magellan ( Louis June 2007, “ Making light work Theory evolves toward practice—high-speed travel in the frictionless medium of space.” [[http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/pro_pilot_0607.pdf,bs]]) </span>
__Solar sailing offers a practical means of carrying heavy payloads to Mars__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and would also be effective for missions to the asteroid belt and to comets ……..</span> __It would be the ideal transport system for a ferry service bringing cargo to Mars and returning material to Earth for study.__

<span class="Underline">**Extinction of Earth is inevitable – only Mars Colonization solves** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Davies 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Schulze-Makuch(Dirk Schulze-Makuch, Ph.D., School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University and Paul Davies, Ph.D., Beyond Center, Arizona State University, “To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are several reasons that motivate the establishment of a permanent Mars colony.</span><span class="Underline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a trip to Mars at the most favorable launch option takes about six months with current chemical rocket technology.</span>

<span class="CiteChar">Human space flight is key to American credibility </span>
<span class="CiteChar">Logsdon 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University (March 2007, Dr. John Logsdon, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__……__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rest of the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__world see the U__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__S__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__as a great country__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This makes the US seem benign – solves for the reasons hegemony is bad**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jervis 09** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To say that the system is unipolar is not to argue that the unipole can get everything it wants or that it has no need for others………. </span>Success requires<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>others<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> share the American vision and </span>believe<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that its </span>leadership is benign.

<span class="Underline">**Only human Mars exploration reinvigorates American students**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ehlmann 02**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Bethany, Department of Earth & Planetary Sciences, Washington University, studies Environmental Change at Oxford, Jeeshan Chowdhury, School of Medicine, University of Alberta, Eric Collins, School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Brandon DeKock, Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Oklahoma, Douglas Grant, Department of Chemistry, University of Mississippi, Stuart Ibsen, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Jessica Kinnevan, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of New Hampshire, Wendy Krauser, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mercer University, Julie Litzenberger, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Tufts University, Timothy Marzullo, Department of Neuroscience, University of Michigan, Rebekah Shepard, Department of Geology, Oberlin College [“Humans to Mars: The Political Initiative and Technical Expertise Needed for Human Exploration of the Red Planet,” April 25-26, Group report of the 2002 Astrobiology Academy] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Educating and </span>inspiring <span style="font-size: 8pt;">America’s </span>youth has<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> long </span>been a priority <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the space program. “To inspire the next generation of human explorers” (NASA Mission, 2002) is the most compelling reason for the United States to support a human mission to Mars……… that will replace any of our nation’s educational programs but one that operates in tandem, adding an inspirational vision to supplement the efforts of teachers. </span>

<span class="Underline">**That’s key to heg** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Barker 4**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Donald, Masters degrees in Physics, Psychology and Mathematics and is currently working on a Masters in Space Architecture. [“Mars: The Only Goal for Humanity,” December 13th, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/285/1]]</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let’s focus on one of the most prominent and endearing reasons for choosing Mars as the primary destination of our human space ……by the ancient egotistical, cultural, and political forces that engender fear and preempt exploration and expansion.</span>

**The fourth acceleration allows it to be put in L1**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__A typical solar sail needs a mass:area ratio about 10-20 grams per square meter__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (g/m 2 ) ……… (For completeness, we note that the effect of solar wind is three orders of magnitude smaller, and Luna will impart a periodic, but predictable, disturbance.) </span>

**Put away your solvency deficits we have 30 quadrillion square kilometers for pri me positioning of solar sails**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gravity keeps our feet on the ground, satellites in orbit overhead, and Earth revolving around the Sun. …… of cislunar space in the Earth-Moon system. However, </span>__for purposes of shading sunlight on Earth, the “sweet spot” is a lot smaller, less than 1 percent of the region__

**Competitiveness key to heg – retrenchment causes miscalc**
**Khalilzad 11 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (Zalmay, 2/8, “The Economy and National Security,” 2-8, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We face this domestic challenge while other major </span>__powers are experiencing rapid__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic </span>__growth. ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Americans have responded pragmatically, and sometimes through trial and error, to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today.</span>



==1AC Harvard Octofinals== 
===Plan=== 
The United States __[[home|federal government]]__ should substantially increase its deployment of solar sails for use beyond the earths mesosphere
===Hegemony=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2 is Hegemony – it solves war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zhang and Shi 1/22</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">global distribution of power is shifting</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">…….. anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Social science proves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wohlforth 09</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">This is why such theories seem irrelevant to interactions among great powers in an international ……..</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__scarce, and competitions__ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">for status</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__tend to be zero sum__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.9</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So do empirics</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Drezner 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas smakestaring at each other through artillery ……… the use of force potentially more attractive, because of the minimization of spillover effects.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even the perception of it solves – there’s no root cause of war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moore 04</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, pages 41-2.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic …….. in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Controlling energy key to hard and soft power</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Padilla 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, [[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">“We become just byperforming just actions, temperateby performingtemperateactions,bravebyperformingbrave……… </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Without</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">true energy independence our ability to</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">attract</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">world to</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">shared</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">goals and</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">endeavors</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">become</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">critically</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">handicapped.</span>__

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Human spaceflight key to leadership – however the failing mission to mars is causing a decline** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Wolfgang 11/15**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Ben, national reporter for The Washington Times [“Budgeting woes could derail U.S. role in space exploration”[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/nov/15/budgeting-woes-could-derail-us-role-in-space-explo/]]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The days of U.S. leadership in space</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> exploration </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">could be coming to an end</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">……. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">as an unreliable, schizophrenic agency</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">,” he said. “NASA could be left to fly its own missions. Meanwhile, other international space agencies will collaborate, and in time, they may well be able to fly space missions that were once the domain of NASA.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solar sails allow us to complete the Mars mission – also allows for a base to be created</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Friedman 7 -</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> is cofounder of The Planetary Society. In the 1970s he worked at JPL on deep space missions, including Mariner-VenusMercury, Voyager and Magellan ( Louis June 2007, “ Making light work Theory evolves toward practice—high-speed travel in the frictionless medium of space.”[[http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/pro_pilot_0607.pdf,bs]]) </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solar sailing offers a practical means of carrying heavy payloads to Mars</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, and would also be effective for missions to the asteroid belt and to comets ……..</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It would be the ideal transport system for a ferry service bringing cargo to Mars and returning material to Earth for study.</span>__

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Extinction of Earth is inevitable – only Mars Colonization solves** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Davies 10**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> and Schulze-Makuch(Dirk Schulze-Makuch, Ph.D., School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University and Paul Davies, Ph.D., Beyond Center, Arizona State University, “To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">There are several reasons that motivate the establishment of a permanent Mars colony.</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> a trip to Mars at the most favorable launch option takes about six months with current chemical rocket technology.</span>

<span class="CiteChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Human space flight is key to American credibility </span>
<span class="CiteChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Logsdon 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University (March 2007, Dr. John Logsdon, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__……__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> rest of the </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__world see the U__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__S__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__as a great country__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**This makes the US seem benign – solves for the reasons hegemony is bad**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Jervis 09** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">To say that the system is unipolar is not to argue that the unipole can get everything it wants or that it has no need for others………. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Success requires</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">others</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">share the American vision and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">believe</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> that its </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">leadership is benign.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy from space move us away from fossil fuel</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Flournoy 11 -</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University (Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">One of the</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> obvious </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">opportunities for solar power satellites is</span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">to become an on……. (and possibly investors) in the Sunsat business to guarantee a sustainable night-and-day fuel source. </span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan transitions the global economy</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kammen 2007</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Public Policy @ UC Berkeley (Daniel, "Green Jobs Created by Global Warming Initiative," September 25th,[[http://www.unep.org/civil_society/GCSF9/pdfs/karmen-senate.pdf,bs]]) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to supporting domestic job creation, …….</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of the clean energy sector will likely positively impact the ability and the actions of a number of emerging economies to ‘go green’.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The fourth acceleration allows it to be put in L1</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Roy et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS”[[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A typical solar sail needs a mass:area ratio about 10-20 grams per square meter</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (g/m 2 ) ……… (For completeness, we note that the effect of solar wind is three orders of magnitude smaller, and Luna will impart a periodic, but predictable, disturbance.) </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Put away your solvency deficits we have 30 quadrillion square kilometers for pri me positioning of solar sails</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Roy et al 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS”[[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Gravity keeps our feet on the ground, satellites in orbit overhead, and Earth revolving around the Sun. …… of cislunar space in the Earth-Moon system. However, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">for purposes of shading sunlight on Earth, the “sweet spot” is a lot smaller, less than 1 percent of the region</span>__

===Warming=== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Warming is real and causes extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Costello 11**, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority………. and other mammals would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible, therefore making many environments uninhabitable.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan solves - shielding </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Angel and Worden 6</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making moon sun-shades from moondust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra,[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html,bs]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Earth's surface temperature has risen by about 1 degree Fahrenheit…. Now is the time to begin in earnest the development and testing of these critical technical steps.</span>

===<span style="line-height: 24px;">Icebreakers</span>=== 
**Plan solves arctic monitoring**
**McInnes 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Colin R, Dept. of Aerospace Engineering, University of Glasgow “Near-Term Mission Applications For Low Performance Solar Sails” Strathprints Development Archive) </span>
Geostationary orbit provides a convenient …. of propulsion, and of its readiness for future missions. Future science missions are proposed by the science community, not by engineers.


**Status quo arctic monitoring fails-causes conflict**
**Parthemore and Rogers ‘11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]],)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__emerging gaps in U.S. earth monitoring will impede____the U.S. government’s ability to make efficient and effective decisions to address environmental ….. how environmental conditions and climate change are affecting their missions and to help national security policymakers identify areas of the world that are prone to greater instability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Absent Up-to date earth observation systems, arctic instability is inevitlable**

**IOC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission for the United Nations, 2010, “Why Monitor the Arctic Ocean?”, [[http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0018/001898/189843e.pdf]])</span>
__The Arctic is dominated ,,,,,,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A </span>__coordinated observing system must__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">therefore</span>__be____created for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__Arctic Ocean and__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its </span>__coasts, to provide__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> baseline data and ensure </span>__sustained monitoring__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Specifically, Russian icebreaker attempts are inevitable which causes Arctic instability**
**Cohen and Altman 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ariel, Ph.D, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, Anton Altman, Research Volunteer at Heritage Foundation, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten”, [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]], Heritage Foundation,)</span>
__The Arctic is becoming the “wild west” of the …..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the 21st century will depend on U.S. ability to access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.</span>


**Arctic instability causes u.s. Russia nuclear war-it is the most likely scenario**

**Staples 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, 2009, p. 5-6, [[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact is, </span>__the Arctic is becoming an zone of increased military competition__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…..together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – </span>__could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”__

**The only existential risk**
**BOSTRUM 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, professor of philosophy - Oxford University, March, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards, Journal of Evolution and Technology, [[@http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]A much greater existential risk</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">An all-out nuclear war was a possibility</span>__ __<span style="background-color: yellow;">….</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>


**Monitoring information now is key to prevent the impact**

**Rogers and Gulledge ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security and Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change (Will and Jay, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy,” Center for New American Security, April,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]],)</span>
__Change in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__Arctic will present__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> significant </span>__challenges for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__national security com­munity, ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__If these commu­nities do not integrate climate science into their decision making today, they may find themselves less well prepared to meet future challenges.__


**Quickest scenario for extinction**


**Helfand and Pastore 9****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>**


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">,</span>** **<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]]</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled to Wednesday in London during the G-20 summit. They must not let the current economic crisis keep them from focusing …..The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.</span>**

=**1AC State**= 


===1AC – Plan Text=== 

Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of solar sails beyond the earth’s mesosphere.

===Heg=== 

**Advantage 1 is Hegemony – it solves war**
**Zhang and Shi 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the </span>__global distribution of power is shifting__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">………… anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**Social science proves**
**Wohlforth 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is why such theories …………..</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__tend to be zero sum__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.9</span>


**So do empirics**
**Drezner 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas smakestaring at each other through artillery barrels, a Hobbesian war of all against all in eastern Congo--combat plagues human society as it has, ……….. of spillover effects.</span>


**Even the perception of it solves – there’s no root cause of war**
**Moore 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, pages 41-2.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic aggressor and an absence of effective deterrence, what is the role of the many traditional "causes" of war? ……….. of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?</span>


**The plan solves energy control**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__For cooling Earth, it does not matter how the Dyson Dot …….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.</span>

**Energy from space move us away from fossil fuel**
**Flournoy 11 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University (Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book)</span>
__One of the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> obvious </span>__opportunities for solar power satellites is__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…….. in the Sunsat business to guarantee a sustainable night-and-day fuel source. </span>

**Controlling energy key to hard and soft power**
**Padilla 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, [[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“We become just byperforming just actions, temperateby performingtemperateactions,bravebyperformingbraveactions,”saidAristotleover2,300yearsago. Today,</span>__the U____nited__ __St____ates__ __faces__ __………..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from economicsecurity. </span>__Without__ __true energy independence our ability to__ __attract__ __the__ __world to__ __shared____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>____goals and__ __endeavors__ __become__ __critically__ __handicapped.__


<span class="Underline">**Human spaceflight key to leadership – however the failing mission to mars is causing a decline** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wolfgang 11/15**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Ben, national reporter for The Washington Times [“Budgeting woes could derail U.S. role in space exploration” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/nov/15/budgeting-woes-could-derail-us-role-in-space-explo/] </span>
The days of U.S. leadership in space<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> exploration </span><span class="Underline">……….</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> he said. “NASA could be left to fly its own missions. Meanwhile, other international space agencies will collaborate, and in time, they may well be able to fly space missions that were once the domain of NASA.”</span>


**Solar sails allow us to complete the Mars mission – also allows for a base to be created**
**Friedman 7 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is cofounder of The Planetary Society. In the 1970s he worked at JPL on deep space missions, including Mariner-VenusMercury, Voyager and Magellan ( Louis June 2007, “ Making light work Theory evolves toward practice—high-speed travel in the frictionless medium of space.” [[http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/pro_pilot_0607.pdf,bs]]) </span>
__Solar sailing offers a practical means of carrying ……..bringing cargo to Mars and returning material to Earth for study.__

<span class="Underline">**Extinction of Earth is inevitable – only Mars Colonization solves** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Davies 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Schulze-Makuch(Dirk Schulze-Makuch, Ph.D., School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University and Paul Davies, Ph.D., Beyond Center, Arizona State University, “To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are several reasons that motivate the establishment of a permanent Mars colony.</span> We are <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…… planetary neighbor (after Venus) and a trip to Mars at the most favorable launch option takes about six months with current chemical rocket technology.</span>



<span class="CiteChar">Human space flight is key to American credibility </span>
<span class="CiteChar">Logsdon 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University (March 2007, Dr. John Logsdon, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__…………..__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">human space </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__flight will__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> continue to </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__make__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an important </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__contribution to having the__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rest of the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__world see the U__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__S__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__as a great country__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span class="Underline">**This makes the US seem benign – solves for the reasons hegemony is bad**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jervis 09** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To say that the system is ……. for </span>which unilateral measures are<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> likely to be </span>unsuited<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and for which American military and economic strength can at best play a supporting role. </span>Success requires<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>others<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> share the American vision and </span>believe<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that its </span>leadership is benign.


===Shielding=== 

<span class="Underline">**Advantage 2 is shielding – our first scenario is warming – it causes extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Costello 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority. …..</span><span class="Underline"> mammals </span>would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible<span class="Underline">, therefore </span>making many environments uninhabitable<span class="Underline">. </span>


**Plan solves by shielding**
**Angel and Worden 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making moon sun-shades from moondust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html,bs)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Earth's surface temperature has risen by about 1 degree …….</span>__involved, in a way that has not happened since Apollo or the Manhattan Project__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__It__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">might also represent the first truly large-scale commercial and private-sector use of space, a</span>__nd would **certainly be of benefit to the entire population of Earth**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Now is the time to begin in earnest the development and testing of these critical technical steps. </span>


**Our second scenario is radiation – ozone depletion is inevitable**
**Andre and Velasquez 1990** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Claire Andre, Manuel Velasquez, founders of //Issues in Ethics//. “Ozone Debate: Environmentalists and Business Collide—Again” [[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/iie/v3n1/ozone.html]] 1990]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1985, </span>__scientists startled the world with an ominous discovery.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…….to halt the use and production of CFCs? </span>

**Montreal Protocol was too little too late**
**Boyle 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Rebecca, Contributor at</span> //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Popular Science</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; Reporter/Writer “[[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-10/so-now-there%E2%80%99s-ozone-hole-over-arctic-what-does-mean|Five Reasons You Should Care About the New Ozone Hole Over the Arctic]]” [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-10/so-now-there%E2%80%99s-ozone-hole-over-arctic-what-does-mean]] 10.03.11]</span>
__Humans have already emitted enough chemicals to seed the process__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__……. in the atmosphere for this effect to persist for decades,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Manney said.</span>


**Shielding solves radiation**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__If we want to cut down the amount of solar radiation ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Furthermore, there is no reason why they might not generate a surplus over their own modest power requirements -- perhaps a very large surplus.</span>

**Ozone collapse causes extinction**
**Smith and Daniel 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306]]) </span>
__The ozone__ __layer is__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">critical to life on Earth</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> because</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">it absorbs</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> ……</span>__** __as possibly impairing the human immune system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kerr et al., [1993]). </span>**__Damage to__****__terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems also may occur__** __(__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin [1998], WMO [1998]). </span>

===Solvency=== 

**Mylar material overcomes their solvency deficits and has been tested**
**West et al 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– scientist at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory at CalTech (2003, John West, David Lichodziejewski, Billy Derbès L’Garde, Inc., Rich Reinert Ball Aerospace, Dr. Keith Belvin, Richard Pappa NASA Langley Research Center, “Bringing an Effective Solar Sail Design Toward TRL”, http://www.lgarde.com/papers/2003-4659.pdf) </span>
__Mylar__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6) has been selected ……, and the low cost and high availability, make Mylar an excellent choice for use as a solar sail membrane.</span>

Strip model solves stability and tears
<span class="UnderlineChar">**Fernandez et. al 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Surrey Space Centre, Department of Electronic Engineering, University ofSurre RolaTube Technology ( Juan M. Fernandez a,n , Vaios J. Lappas a , Andrew J. Daton-Lovett 2010 Completely stripped solar sail concept using bi-stable reeled composite booms Completely stripped solar sail concept using bi-stable reeled composite booms Science direct ,bs)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The concept proposed here is </span>__a variation of the stripped__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">……, especially if the holes are created near the sail suspension points.</span>


**Expert agrees we have the tech – just a question of deployment**
**Witze 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- won the National Association of Science Writers' Science-in-Society Award and the Walter Sullivan Award for Excellence in Science Journalism Witze earned her B.S. degree in geology from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and she later received a graduate certificate in science communication from the University of California, Santa Cruz. Senior News and Features Editor with Nature( Alexandra 9/10/11 Flying on sunshine. Ebsco,bs) </span>
__"As far as solar sails go__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, we are on the cusp of history," …..</span> __technology to make these happen."__

**The fourth acceleration allows it to be put in L1**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__A typical solar sail needs a mass:area ratio about 10-20 ……__**__in effect moving the equilibrium point sunward from the usual L1 point__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (For completeness, we note that the effect of solar wind is three orders of magnitude smaller, and Luna will impart a periodic, but predictable, disturbance.) </span>

**Our propulsion works and is super-fast**
**Witze 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- won the National Association of Science Writers' Science-in-Society Award and the Walter Sullivan Award for Excellence in Science Journalism, Witze earned her B.S. degree in geology from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and she later received a graduate certificate in science communication from the University of California, Santa Cruz, Senior News and Features Editor with Nature (Alexandra 9/10/11 Flying on sunshine. Ebsco,bs) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each individual transfer…., is taking. </span>**__Solar sails are the tortoise to the hare of chemical rocketry.__**


**Colonization is possible despite radiation**
<span class="Underline">**Zubrin 2011** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.93)//DT//</span>
__Despite all the hand ……... Radiation is not a major risk driver of a piloted Mars mission.__

**Lack of gravity isn’t an issue**
<span class="Underline">**Zubrin 2011** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">–president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.135)DT</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But in fact </span>__we don't need to fly to Mars …, humans could adapt to living, functioning, and moving about on structures with rota­tion rates as high as 6 rpm__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.il</span>

**Solar sails can terraform**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the Copernican Principle, none of these considerations are unique to our home system. Physical laws are the same for everybody. It is reasonable to suppose that intelligent beings elsewhere may apply techniques we would recognize……. the human race to a new plane of existence. </span>

=1AC NDCA= 

===1AC Plan Text=== 
Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of solar sails beyond the earth’s mesosphere.

===Heg=== 

**Heg is good**
**Kagan 12 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a columnist for the Washington Post, served in the U.S. State department, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund ( Robert, 2012, “ Why the World Needs America” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html)bs</span>

__History shows__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>__world orders__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including our own,.........</span>__which is what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.__


**Social science proves**
**Wohlforth 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is why such theories …………..</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__tend to be zero sum__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.9</span>

**Causation does not take out the adv – heg is good**
**Kagan 12 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a columnist for the Washington Post, served in the U.S. State department, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund ( Robert, 2012, “ The World America Made” book)bs</span>

It is hard to measure events that don’t happen, to guess what wars might have broken out had the united states not played the role it has played during the past sixty-five years. The only guide we have is history and a general understanding of the way great powers normally behave. We know, for instance, what Europe and Asia looked like before the United States entered the picture and changed the power equations in both regions. Germany after its defeat in World War I sought to rearm , to regain lost territory and lost honor, to protect itself against former enemies, and to restore itself as a great power. Japan from the late nineteenth century onward sought regional hegemony and coveted territory on the Asian mainland. But when American power was added to these equations after World War II, both nations took entirely different paths, as did the nations around them, Had the America variable been absent, the outcome would have been different. American power also shaped Soviet reach into Europe was determined by the disposition of military forces at the end of World War II, not by the modesty of Soviet ambitions. Soviet probes in Berlin from 1948 through 1961, had they not been met by the implicit and explicit threat of American force, would have changed the situation in Germany profoundly. The Lack of Soviet aggressiveness in Europe thereafter, as well as in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf, was a response to red lined drawn by the united states and its allies. Even today, the continuing large gap in power between the United States and other great powers tends to dampen natural competitive rivalries and deters attempts to establish regional hegemonies by force.

**So do empirics**
**Drezner 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas smakestaring at each other through artillery barrels, a Hobbesian war of all against all in eastern Congo--combat plagues human society as it has, ……….. of spillover effects.</span>


**The plan solves energy control**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__For cooling Earth, it does not matter how the Dyson Dot …….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Terrestrial carbon burners, and even “nukes”, waste two-thirds of their fuel’s energy due to basic thermodynamic inefficiency.</span>

**Energy from space move us away from fossil fuel**
**Flournoy 11 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University (Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book)</span>
__One of the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> obvious </span>__opportunities for solar power satellites is__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…….. in the Sunsat business to guarantee a sustainable night-and-day fuel source.</span>

**Controlling energy key to hard and soft power**
**Padilla 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, [[http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“We become just byperforming just actions, temperateby performingtemperateactions,bravebyperformingbraveactions,”saidAristotleover2,300yearsago. Today,</span>__the U____nited__ __St____ates__ __faces__ __………..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from economicsecurity. </span>__Without__ __true energy independence our ability to__ __attract__ __the__ __world to__ __shared____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>____goals and__ __endeavors__ __become__ __critically__ __handicapped.__


<span class="Underline">**Human spaceflight key to leadership – however the failing mission to mars is causing a decline**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wolfgang 11/15**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Ben, national reporter for The Washington Times [“Budgeting woes could derail U.S. role in space exploration” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/nov/15/budgeting-woes-could-derail-us-role-in-space-explo/]</span>
The days of U.S. leadership in space<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> exploration </span><span class="Underline">……….</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> he said. “NASA could be left to fly its own missions. Meanwhile, other international space agencies will collaborate, and in time, they may well be able to fly space missions that were once the domain of NASA.”</span>


**Solar sails allow us to complete the Mars mission – also allows for a base to be created**
**Friedman 7 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is cofounder of The Planetary Society. In the 1970s he worked at JPL on deep space missions, including Mariner-VenusMercury, Voyager and Magellan ( Louis June 2007, “ Making light work Theory evolves toward practice—high-speed travel in the frictionless medium of space.” [[http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/pro_pilot_0607.pdf,bs]])</span>
__Solar sailing offers a practical means of carrying ……..bringing cargo to Mars and returning material to Earth for study.__

<span class="Underline">**Extinction of Earth is inevitable – only Mars Colonization solves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Davies 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Schulze-Makuch(Dirk Schulze-Makuch, Ph.D., School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Washington State University and Paul Davies, Ph.D., Beyond Center, Arizona State University, “To Boldly Go: A One-Way Human Mission to Mars”, [[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars108.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are several reasons that motivate the establishment of a permanent Mars colony.</span> We are <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…… planetary neighbor (after Venus) and a trip to Mars at the most favorable launch option takes about six months with current chemical rocket technology.</span>



<span class="CiteChar">Human space flight is key to American credibility</span>
<span class="CiteChar">Logsdon 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University (March 2007, Dr. John Logsdon, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__…………..__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">human space </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__flight will__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> continue to </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__make__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an important </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__contribution to having the__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rest of the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__world see the U__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__S__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__as a great country__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span class="Underline">**This makes the US seem benign – solves for the reasons hegemony is bad**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jervis 09** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of international politics at Columbia University. (Robert, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To say that the system is ……. for </span>which unilateral measures are<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> likely to be </span>unsuited<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and for which American military and economic strength can at best play a supporting role. </span>Success requires<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>others<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> share the American vision and </span>believe<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that its </span>leadership is benign.


===Shielding=== 

<span class="Underline">**Advantage 2 is shielding – our first scenario is warming – it causes extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Costello 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London [“Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Advocacy about the health consequences will ensure that climate change is a high priority. …..</span><span class="Underline"> mammals </span>would occur as dissipation of metabolic heat becomes impossible<span class="Underline">, therefore </span>making many environments uninhabitable<span class="Underline">.</span>


**Plan solves by shielding**
**Angel and Worden 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making moon sun-shades from moondust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html,bs)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Earth's surface temperature has risen by about 1 degree …….</span>__involved, in a way that has not happened since Apollo or the Manhattan Project__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__It__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">might also represent the first truly large-scale commercial and private-sector use of space, a</span>__nd would **certainly be of benefit to the entire population of Earth**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Now is the time to begin in earnest the development and testing of these critical technical steps.</span>


**Our second scenario is radiation – ozone depletion is inevitable**
**Andre and Velasquez 1990** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Claire Andre, Manuel Velasquez, founders of //Issues in Ethics//. “Ozone Debate: Environmentalists and Business Collide—Again” [[http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/iie/v3n1/ozone.html]] 1990]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1985, </span>__scientists startled the world with an ominous discovery.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…….to halt the use and production of CFCs?</span>

**Montreal Protocol was too little too late**
**Boyle 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Rebecca, Contributor at</span> //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Popular Science</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; Reporter/Writer “[[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-10/so-now-there%E2%80%99s-ozone-hole-over-arctic-what-does-mean|Five Reasons You Should Care About the New Ozone Hole Over the Arctic]]” [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-10/so-now-there%E2%80%99s-ozone-hole-over-arctic-what-does-mean]] 10.03.11]</span>
__Humans have already emitted enough chemicals to seed the process__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__……. in the atmosphere for this effect to persist for decades,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Manney said.</span>


**Shielding solves radiation**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__If we want to cut down the amount of solar radiation ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Furthermore, there is no reason why they might not generate a surplus over their own modest power requirements -- perhaps a very large surplus.</span>

**Ozone collapse causes extinction**
**Smith and Daniel 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306]])</span>
__The ozone__ __layer is__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">critical to life on Earth</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> because</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">it absorbs</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> ……</span>__** __as possibly impairing the human immune system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kerr et al., [1993]). </span>**__Damage to__****__terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems also may occur__** __(__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin [1998], WMO [1998]).</span>

===Solvency=== 

**Mylar material overcomes their solvency deficits and has been tested**
**West et al 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– scientist at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory at CalTech (2003, John West, David Lichodziejewski, Billy Derbès L’Garde, Inc., Rich Reinert Ball Aerospace, Dr. Keith Belvin, Richard Pappa NASA Langley Research Center, “Bringing an Effective Solar Sail Design Toward TRL”, http://www.lgarde.com/papers/2003-4659.pdf)</span>
__Mylar__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6) has been selected ……, and the low cost and high availability, make Mylar an excellent choice for use as a solar sail membrane.</span>

Strip model solves stability and tears
<span class="UnderlineChar">**Fernandez et. al 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Surrey Space Centre, Department of Electronic Engineering, University ofSurre RolaTube Technology ( Juan M. Fernandez a,n , Vaios J. Lappas a , Andrew J. Daton-Lovett 2010 Completely stripped solar sail concept using bi-stable reeled composite booms Completely stripped solar sail concept using bi-stable reeled composite booms Science direct ,bs)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The concept proposed here is </span>__a variation of the stripped__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">……, especially if the holes are created near the sail suspension points.</span>


**Expert agrees we have the tech – just a question of deployment**
**Witze 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- won the National Association of Science Writers' Science-in-Society Award and the Walter Sullivan Award for Excellence in Science Journalism Witze earned her B.S. degree in geology from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and she later received a graduate certificate in science communication from the University of California, Santa Cruz. Senior News and Features Editor with Nature( Alexandra 9/10/11 Flying on sunshine. Ebsco,bs)</span>
__"As far as solar sails go__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, we are on the cusp of history," …..</span> __technology to make these happen."__

**The fourth acceleration allows it to be put in L1**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>
__A typical solar sail needs a mass:area ratio about 10-20 ……__**__in effect moving the equilibrium point sunward from the usual L1 point__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (For completeness, we note that the effect of solar wind is three orders of magnitude smaller, and Luna will impart a periodic, but predictable, disturbance.)</span>

**Our propulsion works and is super-fast**
**Witze 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- won the National Association of Science Writers' Science-in-Society Award and the Walter Sullivan Award for Excellence in Science Journalism, Witze earned her B.S. degree in geology from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and she later received a graduate certificate in science communication from the University of California, Santa Cruz, Senior News and Features Editor with Nature (Alexandra 9/10/11 Flying on sunshine. Ebsco,bs)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each individual transfer…., is taking. </span>**__Solar sails are the tortoise to the hare of chemical rocketry.__**


**Colonization is possible despite radiation**
<span class="Underline">**Zubrin 2011** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.93)//DT//</span>
__Despite all the hand ……... Radiation is not a major risk driver of a piloted Mars mission.__

**Lack of gravity isn’t an issue**
<span class="Underline">**Zubrin 2011** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">–president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering (“The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must”, Revised June 28, 2011, pg.135)DT</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But in fact </span>__we don't need to fly to Mars …, humans could adapt to living, functioning, and moving about on structures with rota­tion rates as high as 6 rpm__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.il</span>

**Solar sails can terraform**
**Roy et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc. and a registered professional engineer (robotics specialty) on the Senior Staff of TetraTech, Inc. He also serves as Treasurer of ORION, Inc. Robert worked for the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Space as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers 1994 Congressional Fellow. He has published extensively about technology, society, and international affairs; manufactured and distributed Russian space software worldwide, and co-authored with Ken Roy “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails” in the Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review. 7/14/11, “ DYSON DOTS” [[http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf,bs]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the Copernican Principle, none of these considerations are unique to our home system. Physical laws are the same for everybody. It is reasonable to suppose that intelligent beings elsewhere may apply techniques we would recognize……. the human race to a new plane of existence.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 15px;">2AC Consult Nato </span>== 
**Consultation kills hegemony and democracy**
**Kagan 10** **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and Hurwitz’s #1 fan (Robert, 1, “Obama's Year One: Contra”, http://www.worldaffairsjournal.org/articles/2010-JanFeb/full-Kagan-JF-2010.html//ts)//</span>
//__The new strategy requires…….. allowed to get in the way of the “reset.”__//


//**And turn- US participation in NATO makes Russia-China counterbalancing inevitable**//
//**Kober, 08**//
//(Stanley Kober, Ph.D., is a research fellow in foreign policy at the Cato Institute “Cracks in the Foundation: NATO’s New Troubles,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-608.pdf)//
//But as NATO<span class="Underline"> has </span>expanded<span class="Underline">, ……..</span>corresponding measures.//

//**Specifically, NATO shields blame for China’s BMD program—this makes fully functioning ASATs inevitable**//
//**Lin, 10**//
//(Joseph E. Lin, a former defense consultant in Washington, DC, is a doctoral student in political science at the University of Pennsylvania, “China’s BMD Test Reveals a Strategy of Diplomatic Dissemblance,” http://www.defensestudies.org/?paged=2)//
//Amid the flurry of reporting ……<span class="Underline">the</span> actual <span class="Underline">intent behind China’s accusations</span>.//

//**Turn – Consultation allows the US to secure Ukrainian membership in NATO**//
//Council On Foreign Relations 2/29 ("Ukraine's Instability Threatens Crisis, Weakens its Candidacy for NATO, EU, Warns CFR Report "<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cfr.org/publication/18598/ukraines_instability_threatens_crisis_weakens_its_candidacy_for_nato_eu_warns_cfr_report.html)</span>//

//"The __Obama__ administration should ……. __the NATO question__, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">and [also builds] support among the elite and broader population."</span>//

//**Ukrainian Integration Into NATO triggers nuclear terrorism, economic catastrophe, Russian intervention**//
//**International Herald Tribune 06** ("A Russian view: Ukraine should not join NATO"http://www.iht.com/articles/2006/07/19/opinion/edkara.php)//

//__A NATO-driven Ukraine will naturally push for a ………., the very community that civilized and developed nations so vocally claim to be fighting against.__//

//**Extinction**//
//**Ayson 10 -** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” </span>//Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use ……. In the charged atmosphere immediately after a nuclear terrorist attack, how would the attacked country respond to pressure from other major nuclear powers not to respond in kind? The phrase “how dare they tell us what to do” immediately springs to mind. Some might even go so far as to interpret this concern as a tacit form of sympathy or support for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>



==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 15px;">2AC Gender</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">**F/W – neg must defense a policy option – infinite number of frameworks makes it impossible to be aff – debating within different frameworks prevent linear clash**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">**Representations don’t shape policymaking**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">**Tuathail, 96** (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">__While theoretical debates..........__ the patterned mess that is human history.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">**The distinction between science and feminist science reinforces hierarchies**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">**Fehr 2004** (Carla is an Associate Professor in Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies at Iowa State University. She works in the philosophy of biology, feminist philosophy and feminist science studies............. I hope to create space for a variety of approaches.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">**Alt cedes the political**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">**Boggs 97** – professor of social sciences, Los Angeles (Carl, The Great Retreat, Theory and Society 26.6, jstor, AG)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10px;">The false sense of empowerment that comes with such..........., collective interests that had vanished from civil society.75</span>
=<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Gender Kritik</span>== 
===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC Gender K</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The Affirmatives drive to dominate space is grounded in epistemologically flawed binaries – justifying their exploitation of space with “Man’s right” to dominate the other**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Griffin 2009 (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">The US is,</span> of course, <span class="Underline">heavily reliant on its satellite-based systems</span>,........, TV crews and to, as Morabito claims, 'dubious characters' such as, perhaps, 'bounty hunters' (2004: 10). </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The alternative is to reject the 1AC to open space for a reconceptualization of security – their discourse causes endless violence against the irrational other – we should ask the question “why?” not “how?”**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Shepherd 2007 [Laura J., Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, “Victims, Perpetrators and Actors’ Revisited:1 Exploring the Potential for a Feminist Reconceptualisation.......<span style="line-height: 19px;"> If this is the case, I am more than happy to be unreasonable, and I am in excellent company.</span></span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC Scifi Gender K</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Masculine science causes extinction and is the root cause of all impacts.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Nhanenge 7(Jytte, Masters @ U South Africa, Accepted Thesis Paper for Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT, uir.unisa.ac.za/bitstream/10500/570/1/dissertation.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Underline">The androcentric premises also have political consequences</span>. ............. //The ultimate result of unchecked patriarchy will be ecological catastrophe and nuclear holocaust//. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The alternative is to reject the 1AC in favor of feminist science fiction – this allows for the re-imagining of gender and identity, to open up for a new avenue of resistance against hegemonic discourse.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Wolmark 94(Jenny, has a MA at Leeds University and is an Editor of the Journal of Gender Studies, “Aliens and Others: Science Fiction, Feminism, and Postmodernism” Pg. 21-25 **Note: SF = Science Fiction[CR])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The intersection of feminism and science fiction has produced a similar emphasis on provisionality,.... __contradictions of gender representation, rather than assuming the existence of a unitary subject that is ‘feminine’ or ‘masculine’.__</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC Gender K vs. Cyborgs</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Cyborgs reify gendered hierchies by identifying the cyborg with masculine or feminine traits – this leads to hypersexuality which re-enforces masculinity and gender as a category**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Shabot 2006** (Sara Cohen has a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the University of Haifa, Israel. She specialized in phenomenology and philosophies of the body. “Grotesque Bodies: A Response to Disembodied Cyborgs” Taylor and Francis) BW</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The first issue that I want to … __science fiction literature and films.__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**We control root cause and outweigh the aff**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Warren 1994** Professor of philosophy at Macalester College, Ecological Feminism, p. 193-194</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">In a similar vein, Paula Smithka argues … which __patriarchalism underlies all__ such kinds of __violence__ __and__ itself __breeds violence__.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The alternative is to reject the 1AC in favor of feminist science fiction – this allows for the re-imagining of gender and identity, to open up for a new avenue of resistance against hegemonic discourse.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Wolmark 94(Jenny, has a MA at Leeds University and is an Editor of the Journal of Gender Studies, “Aliens and Others: Science Fiction, Feminism, and Postmodernism” Pg. 21-25 **Note: SF = Science Fiction[CR])</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">The intersection of feminism and science fiction has produced a similar emphasis on provisionality,.... __contradictions of gender representation, rather than assuming the existence of a unitary subject that is ‘feminine’ or ‘masculine’.__</span>

==<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">__Word PICs__</span>== 
===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Cyborgs PIC</span>=== 

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere with cybernetic organisms. We’ll clarify.** </span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**( ) The net benefit is cybernetic clarity – the plan’s vagueness results in paralysis** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Gray ‘1** </span>
<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">[Chris Hables Gray is an Associate Professor of the Cultural Studies of Science and Technology and of Computer Science at the University of Great Falls in Great Falls, Montana. He studies cyborology (cybernetic organisms) and spoke with Wolfgang Sützl about cyborgs and their implications. http://world-information.org/wio/readme/992003309/994352905 //GBS-JV]//</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">//<span class="Underline">Anyone who has been … is very much the western scientific view.</span>//</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">//<span class="Underline">**( ) The counterplan solves the aff – cyborgs are cybernetic organisms**</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">//<span class="Underline">**TT ‘11**</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">//<span class="Underline">[Trashitechs.com http://www.trashitects.net/tag/term-cyborg 2011</span>//GBS-JV]</span>
<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Cybernetics is an attempt … Cybernetic Organism = Cyborg).</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**( ) This sanitized language actively conceals the horror of totalitarianism – by insulating people from understaing the situations’ full meaning, they become detached from any sense of ethical responsibility**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Davidsson ‘3**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">[Elias. Center for Research on Globalization. www.aldeilis.net 2003//GBS-JV]//</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">//<span class="Underline">In order to effectively … of which humanitarian law has sprung.</span>//</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">//<span class="Underline">**( ) Turns the case and external genocide DA**</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">//<span class="Underline">**Mann ‘3**</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">//<span class="Underline">[Halton. Writer for the Politix Group. http://www.politixgroup.com/comm180.htm 9/5/3 </span>//GBS-JV]</span>

<span class="Underline" style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">In George Orwell's "1984", his Everyman, … given its free forum, its vibrant voice.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Case Frontlines</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Neoliberalism</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Neoliberalism is cyclical and self-correcting**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Li 8 (Ming Professor of Economics at the University of Utah, April, An Age of Transition: The United States, China, Peak Oil, and the Demise of Neoliberalism, Monthly Review, Vol. 59, Iss. 11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">On February 1, Immanuel <span class="underline">**…** </span>policies and institutions <span class="underline">**throughout the world**</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Neoliberalism improves quality of life and checks environmental destruction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Goklany 7 (independent scholar writing on global and national environmental issues. 03-23-2007 The Improving State of the World: Why We're Living Longer, Healthier, More Comfortable Lives on a Cleaner Planet, [[http://www.reason.com/news/show/119252.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="underline">**Environmentalists and globalization foes …**</span> knowledge (that lead is harmful, for example).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Environmental Degradation causes extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Suurküla 6</span>** (Jaan, Chairman of Physicians and Scientists, M.D., for Responsible Application of Science and Technology (PSRAST), Physicians and Scientists for Responsible Application of Science and Technology, 6/24, [[http://www.globalissues.org/article/171/loss-of-biodiversity-and-extinctions|**http://www.globalissues.org/article/171/loss-of-biodiversity-and-extinctions**]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="underline">**The world environmental situation …** </span>cause was found to be climate change</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Globalization solves democracy – political climate, multinational corporations, NGOs.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;"><span class="Heading2Char">Chen</span>**, 2K**, Jim, Professor of Law University of Minnesota Law School, November/December, <span class="Heading2Char">2000</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Fordham International Law Journal, PAX MERCATORIA: GLOBALIZATION AS A SECOND CHANCE AT "PEACE FOR OUR TIME, 24 Fordham Int'l L.J. 217, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Globalization advances democracy <span class="UnderliningChar">… </span>help police the morals of globalized society.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">**Diamond, 95** [Larry, Senior Research Fellow at the Hoover Institute, , “Promoting Democracy in the 1990’s”, Oct, p. online: http://www.carnegie.org/sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html lexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">This hardly exhausts the lists of … <span class="DebateUnderline" style="line-height: 15px;"> __prosperity can be built.__</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**1NC Coercion**</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 80%;">**Its inevitable** </span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">**Machan 95** (Tibor, Hoover research fellow, professor emeritus of philosophy at Auburn University, and holds the R. C. Hoiles Endowed Chair in Business Ethics and Free Enterprise at the Argyros School of Business & Economics, “Private Rights and Public Illusions”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">__Throughout the last several decades … statism has constantly increased.__</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">**Accepting total individualism will devastate society—coercion is justified.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">**Galston 05** William, 5/23 Professor of Civic Engagement and the Director of the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sourcewatch.org/index.php?title=Institute_for_Philosophy_and_Public_Policy&action=edit|Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy]]</span> at the University of Maryland. “The Case for Universal Service,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ppionline.org/documents/AmeriBook/AmeriBook_Chap6.pdf]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">__Classical liberals will object, … backed by force, to do their part__.</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">**Frameworks that radically endorse liberty allow for nihilistic criminality because everyone has the right to define their own values.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">**Schwarz, 89** (Peter, writer, journalist, and original editor for <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Intellectual_Activist|The Intellectual Activist]]</span>, The Intellectual Activist Vol. V, No.1, Ayn Rand Institute, “On Moral Sanctions”, http://www.aynrand.org/site/PageServer?pagename=objectivism_sanctions)</span>

<span style="font-size: 80%;">IS LIBERTARIANISM AN EVIL … __would be the consequence__.</span>


=<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Strategies</span>= 
===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Niles</span>=== 
====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 1:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = SPS, Heg + Warming</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Weapons, SKFTA DA, DOD CP, Gender K, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Case, Gender K 1NR: SKFTA DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: SKFTA DA, DOD CP, Case</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 4:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = SPS, Heg + Resource Wars</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Weapons, SKFTA DA, DOD CP, Gender K, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Weapons, Case 1NR: SKFTA DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: SKFTA DA, Case</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 6:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = SPS, Heg + Resource Wars + India + Aerospace</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Weapons, SKFTA DA, DOD CP, Gender K, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Weapons, Case 1NR: SKFTA DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: SKFTA DA, Case</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Quarterfinals:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Climate Sats, Warming + Soft Power (Iran Prolif)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-"of", SKFTA DA, ESA CP, Gender K, Iran Prolif Good, CO2 Good</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-"of", Iran Prolif Good, ESA CP 1NR: CO2 Good</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Iran Prolif Good, ESA CP, Positive Feedbacks</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Semifinals:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = SSA, Heg + Miscalc (Russia)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Human, SKFTA DA, XO CP, Weaponization DA, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Human, Case D 1NR: SFKTA DA (Just Kidding), Airpower Good</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Airpower Good, Case D</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Georgetown</span>=== 
====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 2:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = DSCOVR, Climate + Solar Storms</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-"of", China Bashing DA, ESA CP, Gender K, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-"of", ESA CP, Case D 1NR: China Bashing DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: China Bashing DA, ESA CP, Case D</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 4:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = ORS, Deterrence</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Peaceful, Gender K, SKFTA DA, Weaponization DA, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Peaceful, Case D 1NR: Weaponization DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: T-Peaceful</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 5:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = AEHF, Cyberattacks + Transmission Security + Bomber Trade-off + Antiquated Acquisition</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: Weaponization DA, SKFTA DA, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Case D 1NR: Weaponization DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Weaponization DA, Case D</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Doubles:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = SPS, Resource Wars + Asteroids + Terrorism + Aerospace</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Weapon, DOD CP, China Bashing DA, Weaponization DA, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: DOD CP, Case D 1NR: China Bashing DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: China Bashing DA, Case D (what about the counterplan...)</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">New Trier</span>=== 
====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 1:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = SPS + International Cooperation + Asteroids</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Weapon, PIC out of SPS, Weaponization DA, Infrastructure DA, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Weapon, Case D 1NR: PIC out of SPS, Infrastructure DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Infrastructure DA, Case D</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 3:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Geriatric Women</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: Framework, State PIC, CEDAW CP, Infrastructure DA, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: CEDAW CP, Case D 1NR: Infrastructure DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Infrastructure DA, CEDAW CP, Case D</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 5:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = DSCOVR, Warming + Solar Storms</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-"of", Warming Advantage CP, Cyberdefense DA, Case D</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Case D, T-"of" 1NR: Cyberdefense DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Cyberdefense DA, Case D</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Iowa Caucus</span>=== 
====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 2:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Polar Satellites, Anti-science + Weather</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Human, China Bashing DA, ESA CP, XO CP, Case (Defense and CO2 Good)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Human, ESA CP, XO CP, Case D 1NR: China Bashing DA</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: China Bashing DA, Case D</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 4:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = ASATs, China + Hegemony</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Weapon, China Bashing DA, Weaponization DA, Case (Soft Power DA, China-Russia Alliance DA, Space Power Bad, Defense)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Weaponization DA, Hegemony Advantage (Defense), T-Weapon 1NR: China Bashing DA, China Advantage (China-Russia Alliance DA, Defense)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Weaponization DA, Case (China-Russia Alliance DA, Defense)</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 6:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Whitey on the Moon</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: Framework, Anthropocentrism K, Trance Music PIC</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Framework, Anthropocentrism K 1NR: Trance Music PIC</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Framework</span>

====<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Octos:</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Cyborgs</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: Framework, T-Human, "Cyborg" PIC, China Bashing DA, Gender K, Case</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Human, Gender K, Case 1NR: "Cyborg" PIC</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Gender K</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">University of Michigan</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 2:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Free Internet Satellites, Coercion + China Relations</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Human, Anthropocentrism K, ESA CP, Cyberterror DA, Case (Nihilism Turn, Defense)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Case (Nihilism Turn, Defense), T-Human, Anthropocentrism K 1NR: ESA CP, Case Defense, Cyberterror DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Case (Nihilism Turn), Anthropocentrism K</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 4:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Lunar Base, Martian Samples + Climate Change</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: Cyberterror DA, XO CP, Anthropocentrism K, Earth Science Trade-off DA, Case D</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Case D 1NR: Cyberterror DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Cyberterror DA, Case D</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 5:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Commons, Neoliberalism</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Development + Exploration = Physical Change, Framework, XO CP, Cyberterror DA, Case (Util, Defense, Neoliberalism Good, Hegemony Good, Calculative Thought Good)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Framework, T-Dev/Exp, XO CP, Case (Util) 1NR: Case (Hegemony Good)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Framework, T-Dev/Exp</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Doubles:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Dragnets, Hegemony/Miscalc/China + Solar Storms + Asteroids</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Human, Jackson-Vanik DA, Sacred Cow DA, Fiat PIC, Case D</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Case D 1NR: Jackson-Vanik DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Jackson-Vanik DA, Case D</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Blake</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 1:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Cyborgs</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: Framework, T-Human, CP (develop cyborgs and don't put them in space w/ ozone net benefit). Gender/Cyborg K, Case D</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Gender/Cyborg K, Case D 1NR: CP w/ net benefit, Case D</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Gender/Cyborg K</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 3:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = SSA, Asteroids + Debris</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Human, XO CP, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Nuclear Fear K, Case D</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Human, Case D, Nuclear Fear K 1NR: Payroll Tax Cuts DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 6:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Shuttles, Hegemony + Colonization</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: XO CP, Jackson-Vanik DA, Anthropocentrism K, Case (Space Colonization Bad, Defense, Soyuz Reliance Good)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Anthropocentrism K 1NR: Case (Space Colonization Bad, Defense, Soyuz Reliance Good)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Anthropocentrism K</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 7:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Fruity Pebbles, Proliferation (everywhere!)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Peaceful, XO CP. Jackson-Vanik DA, Gender K, Case D</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: T-Peaceful, Gender K, Case D 1NR: Jackson-Vanik DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: T-Peaceful</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Golden Desert</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 2:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Nanotech, Warming + Hegemony + China</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Human, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Gender K, Military Process CP, Case D</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Military Process CP, Case D 1NR: Payroll Tax Cuts DA</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case D</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Round 4:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Aff = Space Debris, Latin America + Miscalc</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC: T-Human, ESA CP, Anthropocentrism K, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case D</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NC: Case D, Anthropocentrism K 1NR: Case D, Payroll Tax Cuts DA</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">2NR: Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case D</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Round 5:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Aff = ORS, Hegemony + Development + SSA</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">1NC: T-Peaceful, Gender K, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case (Hegemony Bad, Space Colonization Bad, Defense)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NC: Case Defense, Gender K, T-Peaceful 1NR: Hegemony Bad</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NR: T-Peaceful, Gender K</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Doubles:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Aff = DRAGNETS, Hegemony + Aerospace</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">1NC: T-Human, Gender K, Keystone Rider DA, Case (Hegemony Bad, Space Colonization Bad, Nuclear Deterrence Bad, Defense)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NC: Case Defense, Nuclear Deterrence Bad, Gender K 1NR: Keystone Rider DA</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NR: Case Defense, Nuclear Deterrence Bad, Gender K</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Harvard</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Round 2:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Aff = Climate Sats, Whiteness</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">1NC: Framework, Privatization CP, Military Clean Tech DA, Gender K, Case (Util, Holocaust Trivialization, Ozone DA, Perchlorate DA)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NC: Privatization CP, Case (Util, Perchlorate DA, Holocaust Trivialization) 1NR: Military Clean Tech DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NR: Military Clean Tech DA, Case (Util)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Round 3:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Aff = SPS</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NR: Triple Turn Politics Heg Bad Thingamabober</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Round 6:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Aff = ORS, Hegemony + PGS</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">1NC: T-Human, Gender K, XO CP, Cyberdefense DA, Case (Hegemony Bad, PGS Bad)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NC: PGS Bad, Gender K 1NR: Hegemony Bad</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NR: PGS Bad, Gender K</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Round 7:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">Aff = SPS, Warming + Resource Wars + Hegemony + Economy</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">1NC: T-Human, Gender K, Agrichar CP, Cyberdefense DA, Case (Defense, Launches DA, Radio Interference DA)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NC: T-Human, Agrichar CP, Case Defense 1NR: Cyberdefense DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 15px;">2NR: Cyberdefense DA, Agrichar CP, Case Defense</span>

====Doubles:==== 
Aff = PGS, Economy + PGS

1NC: T-Human, Gender K, Military Process CP, Cyberdefense DA, Case (Dedev, PGS Bad, China Defense)

2NC: Econ Defense, PGS Bad, China Defense, Gender K 1NR: Cyberdefense DA

2NR: Econ Defense, China Defense, Gender K

===Homewood Flossmoor=== 
====Round 1:==== 
Aff = SBMD

2NR: Cyberdefense DA, Case D

====Round 4:==== 
Aff = Debris

2NR: Hegemony Bad, Case D

====Round 5:==== 
Aff = Satellite Hardening

2NR: Heteronormativity K

====Octos:==== 
Aff = Debris

2NR: Cyberdefense DA, Case D

===NFL Districts:=== 
====Round 1:==== 
Aff = AIS

2NR: Jackson-Vanik DA, Case D

====Round 4:==== 
Aff = SBMD

2NR: Gender K, Miscalc Turn

===IHSA State:=== 
====Round 2:==== 
Aff = SPS

2NR: Microwave Bad DA, Sagan DA, Heg Defense

====Round 4:==== 
Aff = Debris

2NR: Jackson-Vanik DA, Solvency

====Round 5:==== 
Aff = SBMD

2NR: US First Strike Turn, Gender K