[[toc]]
Aff Cites-- [[mailto:Chetan.s115@gmail.com|Chetan.s115@gmail.com]]

Neg Cites-- [[mailto:NJL1994@gmail.com|NJL1994@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==Wake 1AC== 
**Contention 1 is EVERYBODY PANIC**
**THE WORLD WILL END**
**A. Asteroids are coming**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Easterbrook, 08</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gregg, American writer, lecturer, and a senior editor of The New Republic June 2008, Atlantic Magazine, “ The Sky Is Falling,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807]]</span>]</span>
Breakthrough ideas... the plane."

**Extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McGUIRE, 02</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
The Tunguska Events... our direction.

**B. The Environment**
**Biological systems are failing now and conservation efforts won’t do anything**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leahy, 11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Leahy, writer for the Inter Press Service News Agency, “Data Shows All of Earth’s Systems in Rapid Decline”, July 29, 2011, [[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=56685]])</span>
Protecting bits of nature... he said.

**Extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diner, 94</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Major in JAG Corps, Military Law Review, “THE ARMY AND THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT: WHO'S ENDANGERING WHOM?” 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, L/N)</span>
By causing... the abyss.

**C. Supervolcanoes- One will inevitably erupt and kill us all**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Britt, 05</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert Roy Britt, Livescience Senior Writer, “Super volcanoes will chill the world someday”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/7129908/</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 3/8/2005)SV</span>
The eruption of... report concludes.

**D. Global Warming – it’s too late to do anything and timeframe is 100 years**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Australian, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cheryl Jones, 6/16/10, “Frank Fenner sees no home for humans”, [[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/higher-education/frank-fenner-sees-no-hope-for-humans/story-e6frgcjx-1225880091722]]]</span>
Frank Fenner doesn't... putting it off.

**Studies show positive feedbacks are plentiful and overwhelm**
**Hansen 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Earth and Environmental Science</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf]]</span></span>
Fast feedbacks... and longer.

**Global warming destroys the planet**
***Dr. Brandenberg, ’99, Physicist (Ph.D.) and Paxson a science writer ’99 – John and Monica, Dead Mars Dying Earth p. 232-3**
The ozone hole... microbes surviving.

**E. Verneshots—Extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Radowitz, 04</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John von Radowitz, science correspondent for Otter’s Haunt, “”Verneshot”: Earth blast cause of dinosaur’s extinction?” 5/21/04, [[http://otters.co.za/vdome_verneshot-theory.htm]])</span>**
The dinosaurs might... says Phipps Morgan.

**Contention 2 – Energy**
**Fuel depletion is inevitable – coal, oil, and gas will be gone in coming decades**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shafieea and Topal, 09</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">\(Shahriar & Erkan, School of Engineering and CRC Mining, The University of Queensland, St. Lucia “ When will fossil fuel reserves be diminished?” online at: <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421508004126#secx2|http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421508004126#secx2]]</span>)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Crude oil... oil and gas.</span>**
**﻿**
**States are securing energy sources through weaponization – inevitably leads to miscalc and power wars**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klare, 08</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 2008 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, “The rise of the new energy world order,” [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/JD17Dj04.html]])</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A growing risk... global distribution.</span>**
**﻿**
**The normal deterrence mechanisms won’t check – energy wars will escalate**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moran and Russell, 08 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Daniel and Jason, Associate Professor in the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, Senior Lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School and Co-Director of the Center for Contemporary Conflict, “The Militarization of Energy Security” Strategic Insights, [[http://www.ccc.nps.navy.mil/si/2008/Feb/moranFeb08.asp]]]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This book does... a conflict.</span>**
**﻿**
**Attempts to shore up supplies is leading to US-China oil competition which leads to war**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hatemi, 07</span>**
**Hatemi, professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and Wedeman, associate professor and chair of Asian Studies at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2007 ( Peter Hatemi is a professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Andrew Wedeman is associate professor and chair of Asian Studies at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln., China Security, Vol. 3 No. 3 Summer 2007, pp. 95 - 118 2007 World Security Institute, “Oil and Conflict in Sino-American Relations” accessed 6/27/11 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wsichina.org/cs7_5.pdf]]</span> aes)**
Power transition theory... to war.


**Extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson, 01</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (President of the Japan Policy Research Institute) [Chalmers, “ Time to Bring the Troops Home,” The Nation, (May 14, 2001 issue), pg. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20010514&c=1&s=johnson]]</span>]</span>**
China is another... deterrent effect.


**Almost unlimited energy would be amazing**
**Asimov ’03<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Isaac Asimov, author, former president of the American Humanist Association, and biochemist, Speech at Rutgers University, "Our Future in the Cosmos-Space," http:/lwww.wronkiewicz.net~asimov.html]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have a feeling... I believe in too.</span>**
**﻿**
**The only way to solve our ecological problems is to stop stealing energy from the biosphere**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walker, 02</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, July 31st, “The Case Against Human Extinction”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/news/725634/posts]]</span>, Bill Walker is a Research Associate at the Shay-Wright lab at UT Southwestern Medical Center.)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First of all... more concentrated sources.</span>**
**﻿**
**﻿**
**Plan: The United States Federal Government should create a self-sustaining colony on the moon through normal means. We reserve the right to clarify.**


**Contention 3 is Stayin’ Alive:**
**The moon has all necessary materials for sustainable human presence**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spudis, 11</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute (Paul D. Spudis, Toward a Theory of Spacepower, Institute for National Strategic Studies National Defense University, “12. The Moon: Point of Entry to Cislunar Space,” ed. Charles D. Lutes and Peter L. Hays, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)RK]]</span> </span>**
The Value of... months away.


**A moon colony would operate as a sanctuary of our civilization allowing us to recover from all inevitable harms**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro, 07</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Prof Emeritus & Snr Research Scientist - Chemistry at NYU 2007 Robert Space Review <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/832/1]]</span></span>**
We need to... years, away.


**Solves war**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stephens, 03</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Rex, Quantum Theorist, The Preparation, [[http://www.thepreparation.net/Chap6.html]]]</span>**
The colonization of... unproductive) business.


**Moon key to survival, resources and Mars**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lowman, 08</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD, geophysicist (14 January 2008. “Why Go Back to the Moon?” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/centers/goddard/news/series/moon/why_go_back.html]]</span>)</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Returning to the... 15th century.**</span>
**﻿**
**﻿**
**Lunar Regolith’s a good building material**
**Schrunk et al ‘08<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David G. (David Schrunk is an aerospace engineer andmedical doctor. His work experience includesperiods at the US Army Aeromedical ResearchLaboratory, NASA Manned Spacecraft Center,and McDonnell-Douglas Astronautics, and amedical career in nuclear medicine and diagnosticradiology. He is the founder of the Quality of</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Laws Institute in Poway, California) </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Burton L. Sharpe(Burton L. Sharpe participated in missionoperations planning and execution of theGemini (Agena Target Vehicle), Apollo(ALSEP), and Viking NASA spaceprograms. He looks forward to the day whenteams of tele-operated devices on the Moon,controlled from multiple locationsworldwide, will build moonbases and assist</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">human crews with their operation)</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Bonnie L. Cooper (Bonnie L. Cooper received her Ph.D. in lunargeology and geophysics from the University ofTexas in 1992 and joined Oceaneering SpaceSystems in 1997. She has researched planetaryresources and remote-sensing topics with the goalof identifying optimum sites for a lunar outpost.Currently, Dr. Cooper is supporting NASAJohnson Space Center's Astromaterials Research</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">and Exploration Science Group)</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Madhu Thangavelu (Madhu Tha ngavelu conducts the SpaceExploration Architectures Concept SynthesisStudio in the Astronautics and SpaceTechnology Department of the ViterbiSchool of Engineering and the School ofArchitecture at USC. He is an Alumnus andfrequent lecturer of the International SpaceUniversity, and has published originalconcepts of space system architectures.He is former Vice Chairman for EducationPrograms in the Los Angeles Section of theAmerican Institute of Aeronautics and</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Astronautics), “Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement”.)</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt;">The lunar regolith... Rock Structures.﻿</span>**
**﻿**
**Colonizing the moon lets us construct a Lunar Solar Power system**
**Schrunk et al ‘08<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David G. (David Schrunk is an aerospace engineer andmedical doctor. His work experience includesperiods at the US Army Aeromedical ResearchLaboratory, NASA Manned Spacecraft Center,and McDonnell-Douglas Astronautics, and amedical career in nuclear medicine and diagnosticradiology. He is the founder of the Quality of</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Laws Institute in Poway, California) </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Burton L. Sharpe(Burton L. Sharpe participated in missionoperations planning and execution of theGemini (Agena Target Vehicle), Apollo(ALSEP), and Viking NASA spaceprograms. He looks forward to the day whenteams of tele-operated devices on the Moon,controlled from multiple locationsworldwide, will build moonbases and assist</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">human crews with their operation)</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Bonnie L. Cooper (Bonnie L. Cooper received her Ph.D. in lunargeology and geophysics from the University ofTexas in 1992 and joined Oceaneering SpaceSystems in 1997. She has researched planetaryresources and remote-sensing topics with the goalof identifying optimum sites for a lunar outpost.Currently, Dr. Cooper is supporting NASAJohnson Space Center's Astromaterials Research</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">and Exploration Science Group)</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Madhu Thangavelu (Madhu Tha ngavelu conducts the SpaceExploration Architectures Concept SynthesisStudio in the Astronautics and SpaceTechnology Department of the ViterbiSchool of Engineering and the School ofArchitecture at USC. He is an Alumnus andfrequent lecturer of the International SpaceUniversity, and has published originalconcepts of space system architectures.He is former Vice Chairman for EducationPrograms in the Los Angeles Section of theAmerican Institute of Aeronautics and</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Astronautics), “Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement”.)</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt;">The steps leading... invetors alike.﻿</span>**
**﻿**
**The Lunar Space Power is feasible and energizes the world economy**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Criswell, 03 </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">(David R., November 6th, “Testimony of Dr. David Criswell: Senate Hearing on “Lunar Exploration” </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=10926]]</span>) <span style="color: black;">Director, Institute for Space Systems Operations, University of Houston and University of Houston-Clear Lake, Houston, TX The Lunar Solar Power System)</span>**
I am honored... the biosphere.



**Contention 4 – Framework**
**Extinction of the species is the most horrible impact imaginable, putting rights or ontology first is putting a part of society before the whole**
**Schell, 82<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, Professor at Wesleyan University, The Fate of the Earth, pages 136-137)</span>**
Implicit in everything... our lives.




**Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule—must consider future lives**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Matheny, 07</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)</span>**
Discussing the risks... mitigating them.




**Threats are real and our disaster discourse mobilizes people to deal with them**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurasawa, 04</span>__**
(Fuyuki Kurasawa, Associate Professor of Sociology at York University in Toronto, Canada, 2004, Constellations Vol 11, No 4, 2004, Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight [[http://www.yorku.ca/kurasawa/Kurasawa%20Articles/Constellations%20Article.pdf]])
In addition, farsightedness... ﻿preventive foresight.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]