[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
The Lottery AC:

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rights = entitlements.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Wenar, Lief [Chair of Ethics, King’s College London]. “Rights,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2011. “Rights are entitlements… not be done.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Aff burden = prove animals deserve entitlements.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Justice entails the recognition of at least some rights.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Korsgaard, Christine. “Natural Motives and the Motive of Duty,” Contemporary Readings in Law and Social Justice 2009.</span>“Hume’s distinction between… comply with them.”
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Section one: we should accept a constructivist account of justice.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls</span>, John. Collected Papers, ed. Freeman, 1993, p. 307. “Kantian constructivism holds… equal moral persons.”
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The normative realists view is crazy; consider an analogy to the New York State lottery.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Street</span>, Sharon [NYU]. “Objectivity and Truth: You’d Better Rethink It,” forthcoming in Philosophy & Public Affairs, 2011. “But now consider… you probably didn’t.”
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Normative realism is analogous.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">First, the normative lottery is supposedly independent of our own beliefs. Street-2</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“The problem for… any fair lottery.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Second, there are several ways to go wrong in the normative lottery. Street -3</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“The realist also… one has entered.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Third, the lottery winner’s claim to knowledge begs the question. Street – 4</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Finally, as I… forced to antirealism.”</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Section two: Constructivism requires that we treat both human and non-human animals with respect for their entitlements.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A. Our ends matter only if we matter.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Korsgaard, Christine [Harvard University], “Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our duties to animals” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. “I believe that… ourselves and others.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This constructivist principle applies to animals. Korsgaard – 2:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Even if you… its own sake.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">B. Values come from goods of ultimate importance to the valuing creature. Korsgaard -3:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“However that may… so to speak.”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This construction of value also applies to animals for the same reasons. Korsgaard -4: “But to say… very deep matter.”</span>
==Negative== 
Contracts NC:

V: Justice
Giving each their due

Gauthier 1:
Only a contractarian system that derives principles of mutual restraint from individuals’ self-interest accounts for this fact.
Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.
"Moral principals are introduced...a moral dimension in their affairs."

Gauither 2: only this contractarianism system provides a non-circular origin for morality.
Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.
"A contractarian theory... prior moral suppositions"

S: Upholding Contractual Agreements

Thesis and C1: Animals do not sign Contracts

Mills: Animals do not sign contracts
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Head of Biological Sciences at the University of Lincoln</span><span style="color: #4e535d; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The Encyclopedia of Applied Animal Behaviour and Welfare, 1998</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">"Morality is a function..towards each other."</span>

Tom Reagan
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">American philosopher who specializes in animal rights theory </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Narveson on Egoism and the Rights of Animals, Canadian Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 7, No. 1 (Mar., 1977), pp. 179-186</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">"every rational being... possessors of rights."</span>

----



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Vomit AC</span>=== 
V-Morality
If consequentialism is true we have an obligation to help individuals in need
AC Burden: Prove consequentialism is true
Any moral theory must have simplicity, power, and coherence.
Shelly Kagan, “The Limits of Morality” (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989). “Let me start…to reject them.”
Meeting this criteria is necessary to understand the moral realm. Kagan 2: “This need for…yielded intuitively correct.”
Consequentialism has simplicity, power, and coherence. Any other ethical story is non-unified, ad hoc, and at odds with non-moral rationality.
Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238. “There are at…of practical rationality.”
Knowledge is a matter of inference to the best explanation.
Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5. “These remarks about…reject the competitors.”
And, Normative arguments against treating the moral value of life as linearly increasing with numbers should be epistemologically discounted since they derive support from cognitive biases that prevent us from recognizing the moral badness of mass death.
Yudowsky: “Scope neglect has…the difference experimentally.”
Also, If individuals are able to prevent something bad happening, without sacrificing something of comparable moral importance, we ought morally to do it. The analogy to the drowning baby proves.
Peter Singer [Professor of Philosophy at Princeton University” Practical Ethics. Third Edition. “On my way…plausible ethical theory.”
There is no non-arbitrary justification to discriminate between saving the baby and helping people in need.
Peter Singer [Princeton University], “Famine, Affluence, and Morality”]. “I do not…on geographical grounds.”
This means that negating is equivalent to letting the baby drown in the pond. The onus is on the negative to give justification for this deeply counter-intuitive claim. That’s because intuitions are the basis of moral reasoning.
McMahan, Jeff. “Moral Intuition,” Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory (1999). “It is important…surrender our intuition.”
Intuitionism demands utilitarianism.
Joshua D. Greene (Department of Psychology, Harvard University). “The Cognitive Neuroscience of Moral Judgment*.” To appear in: //The Cognitive Neurosciences IV//. *This is not the final version, but it is pretty similar. “Four other studies…by current theory.”
Nonconsequentialist considerations only enter from emotions that interfere with logical reasoning.
Greene 2: “Three more recent…complicating this interpretation.”

==Negative== 

=The New York State Lottery NC= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">V: morality</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Korsgaard, Christine. “Natural Motives and the Motive of Duty,” Contemporary Readings in Law and Social Justice 2009.</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">“Hume’s distinction between… comply with them.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Section one: we should accept a constructivist account of justice.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Rawls</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">, John. Collected Papers, ed. Freeman, 1993, p. 307. “Kantian constructivism holds… equal moral persons.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">The normative realists view is crazy; consider an analogy to the New York State lottery.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Street</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">, Sharon [NYU]. “Objectivity and Truth: You’d Better Rethink It,” forthcoming in Philosophy & Public Affairs, 2011. “But now consider… you probably didn’t.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Normative realism is analogous.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">First, the normative lottery is supposedly independent of our own beliefs. Street-2</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">“The problem for… any fair lottery.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Second, there are several ways to go wrong in the normative lottery. Street -3</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">“The realist also… one has entered.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Third, the lottery winner’s claim to knowledge begs the question. Street – 4</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">“Finally, as I… forced to antirealism.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Thesis: If constructivism is true, then we are forced to negate</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">A. Our ends matter only if we matter.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Korsgaard, Christine [Harvard University], “Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our duties to animals” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. “I believe that… ourselves and others.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">B. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our subjective perspective could value something from a universal wrong or bad. </span><span style="color: black;">Christine Korsgaard 2, </span>//The Sources of Normativity//, THE TANNER LECTURES ON HUMAN VALUES, Clare Hall, Cambridge University November 16 and 17, 1992
“the knight says…. Of those words.”

C. **Constructivism cannot judge a theory of the good because those judgments would have to be based on goodness or badness, which creates an infinite regress.** <span style="color: black;">Christine **Korsgaard 3,** </span>//The Sources of Normativity//, THE TANNER LECTURES ON HUMAN VALUES, Clare Hall, Cambridge University November 16 and 17, 1992

“judgments of good… good or bad.”

D. Autonomy is key to moral freedom <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Dwight Furrow. “Objective Moral Reasons.” //Ethics//. 2005. 20.</span>

“The reasons I have… to impose morality.”

----
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">The Moral System NC</span>=== 
V-M
The ultimate goal of every ethical theory is to reduce badness, whatever that may be.
Bernard Gert, [Professor of Intellectual and Moral Philosophy, Emeritus, Dartmouth College], “Morality: Its Nature and Justification”, 2005, Oxford University Press. “Although morality has…are moral virtues.”
The system of morality operates by attributing punishment and praise based on violation of moral rules. Gert 2<span style="font-family: Arial;">: "O</span>nce the overall…than they are.”
S- rational persons within the moral system would agree that violating the obligation deserves blame
I contend that helping people in need is only a moral ideal because rational people would reject a principle of beneficence as part of a system of morality.
Subpoint A: The principle of beneficence is an unreasonable demand, so we would not attribute punishment for violating it.
Gert 3: “The features of…a moral ideal.”
Subpoint B: It is not irrational for individuals not to constantly pursue good b/c of the asymmetry with respect to goods and bads.
Gert 4: “Since agreement on…such an effort.”

----

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"><span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Social Context NC</span></span>=== 

V- M

1. Any normative theory that detaches itself from context is flawed at the level of epistemology.

Iris Marion Young, [Was Professor of <span style="background-color: initial; color: #0645ad;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_Science|Political Science]]</span></span> at the <span style="background-color: initial; color: #0645ad;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Chicago|University of Chicago]]</span></span>, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies and the Human Rights program there.] “Justice and the Politics of Difference”, Princeton University Press, 1990, p. 5 “The strategy of…cannot be unified.”

2. Moral actors can only understand obligations within social context.

Helen Haste, [PhD of Psychology at the University of Bath], “Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality”, 1998. “Communitarian thinkers start…than a person.”

S- consistency with social context.

First, individuals lose their distinctiveness.

Philip Selznick, [Professor of Law and Sociology Emeritus at UC Berkeley], “The Moral Commonwealth: Social Theory and the Promise of Community”, University of California Press, NC “In Western Philosophy…of modern rationalism.”

Second, individuals are ahistorical and removed from context.

Selznick 2: “To many observers…the Stoic doctrine.”

I advocate the concept of persons as the unit of moral agency as only that affirms the social situations in which obligations must operate.

Selznick 3: “The lesson is…belief, and conduct.”

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]