=Table of Contents= 
[[toc]]
=Broadband 1AC= 
Only a few changes since WaRu.

__**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Contention 1: The Status Quo</span>**__

**Firstly, the Federal Communication Commission, or FCC, has rejected free universal WiFi plans for the time being.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AP 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Associated Press. “Regulators Reject Plan for Free Wireless Broadband Network.” September 9, 2010.] BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Federal regulators are shooting down a proposal__ ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> to anyone who connects to it.</span>__**

**Second, the National Broadband Plan barely mentions Wi-Fi meaning the FCC isn’t serious about establishing universal Wi-Fi, even for big cities.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shurkin April 28</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Joel Shurkin, technology reporter for Science Friday. “What ever happened to the Wired City?” Science Friday. [[http://www.sciencefriday.com/blog/2011/04/whatever-happened-to-the-wired-city/|__http://www.sciencefriday.com/blog/2011/04/whatever-happened-to-the-wired-city/__]]] BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">But two or three years later, </span>the plans were abandoned<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">...</span>you <span class="Underline">probably </span>need<span class="Underline">ed</span> to head to a Starbucks.

__**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Thus the Plan,</span>**__

**The Federal Communications Commission will implement a universal wireless internet mesh network by establishing a civil-use ViaSat Satellite System beyond the earth’s mesosphere in geostationary orbit. We’ll allocate through the universal service fund. We’ll clarify, just ask.**

__**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Contention 2: Solvency</span>**__

**First, the plan results in many positives, is economically beneficial, and the FCC chairman likes it.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Coursey 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[David Coursey, MA @ Florida State, Award Winning Technology Programer and Reporter for 20 years. “Why the FCC National Broadband Plan Should Include Public Wi-Fi.” March 2010. [[http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/191325/why_the_fcc_national_broadband_plan_should_include_public_wifi.html|__http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/191325/why_the_fcc_national_broadband_plan_should_include_public_wifi.html__]]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Universal free Wi-Fi is an idea whose time has come</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, albeit in a more limited way</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**Second, ViaSats are perfect for the plan—they can handle massive bandwidth and transmit nationally.**

**Matthews 2009**
[William, staff writer for defense news. “ TSAT Replacement? ” July 20, 2009.]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">When it's launched in early 2011, </span>... <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">By itself, the satellite is about $250 million.</span>


**Third, the satellite Wi-Fi mesh satellites work effectively for both urban and rural areas.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Merrit 8</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Rick, writer for EE Times. “Video: Berkeley brings WiFi to rural poor.” June 17, 2010.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">I want people to think big," </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">sa<<id</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __Brewer, a professor of [[http://www.eetimes.com/encyclopedia/defineterm.jhtml?term=computer&x=&y=|__computer__]] science at the U.C. Berkeley__ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;">... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">carriers, and rural areas can't wait for carriers</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">," Brewer said.</span>


**Fifth, the USF will fund the plan.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Musgrave 2006</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Rural Enterprises, Agriculture, and Technology (5/3, Marilyn, "Opening Statement of Marilyn Musgrave Chairman, Subcommittee on Rural Enterprises, Agriculture and Technology", CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis Congressional, WEA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The bedrock of rural telecommunications was a ...</span> to the long-term sustainability to the USF.

__**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Advantage 1: Digital Democracy</span>**__

**First, the current system is leaving many of the poor without internet, increasing the digital divide. Internet is now critical for Americans to function.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hamblen 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Matt, reports for Computer World. “FCC says 93M in the US lack broadband, digital divide grows.” Febuary 23, 2010.] BW</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The survey and the associated report</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12px;">... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">fall includes 2,334 adults who said they are not broadband users at home.</span>

**Second, federal programs succeed, but expansion is necessary.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dickard & Schneider 2</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Norris Dickard is a senior associate at the Benton Foundation. His work focuses on public policies related to universal service, educational technology, and bridging the digital divide. Diana Schneider formerly served as the Assistant Director of Outreach at The George Lucas Educational Foundation. She currently works with the Benton Foundation Communication Policy program on projects related to educational technology and bridging the digital divide, “The Digital Divide: Where We Are Today,” 7/1/2002 [[http://www.edutopia.org/digital-divide-where-we-are-today]]] BW</span>
__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The digital divide is...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> feel are critical to connecting all Americans.</span>

**Third, the digital divide is undermining democracy in America and destroys civic engagement. Internet access is absolutely critical for democracy in today’s day and age.**

__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lloyd 8</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Mark Lloyd is an affiliate professor of public policy at Georgetown University and a member of the advisory board of Science Progress, “Advanced IT Policy for a New America,” December 19, http://www.scienceprogress.org/2008/12/advanced-it-policy-for-a-new-america/]</span>

__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Federal investment in communications</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> ... technology as solutions to the problems of discrimination or isolation.</span>

**Fourth, internet causes a global shift in democracy.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shirazia, Ngwenyamaa, & Morawczynskib 9</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[*Farid Shirazia, Institute for Research on Innovation and Technology Management, Ted Rogers School of Management, Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada AND **Ojelanki Ngwenyamaa, Institute for Research on Innovation and Technology Management, Ted Rogers School of Management, Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada, AND** *Olga Morawczynskib, Sciences Studies Unit, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK, “ICT expansion and the digital divide in democratic freedoms: An analysis of the impact of ICT expansion, education and ICT filtering on democracy,” Telematics and Informatics, Received 12 April 2008; revised 27 February 2009; accepted 3 May 2009. Available online 15 May 2009, Science Direct]</span>
__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Information and communication technologies ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">standing for election to public office and electing others to represent their interests.</span>

**Fifth, democracy solves all impacts and your disad’s too.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Diamond 95</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Larry Diamond, Hoover Institution, Stanford University, December, PROMOTING DEMOCRACY IN THE 1990S. 1995. [[http://www.carnegie.org/sub/pubs/deadly/diam_rpt.html|__http://www.carnegie....y/diam_rpt.html__]]] BW</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nuclear, chemical and biological weapons continue to proliferate </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">on which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.</span>__

**Sixth, the plan is a prerequisite to your kritiks—democracy is key to disseminating epistemology.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rummel 94</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Rudolph, Nobel Peace Prize winner for research on democracy, “Death by Government.” 1994.]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> preeminent facet about government is that some of them murder millions in cold blood. ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __fostering democratic freedom__.</span>

__**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Advantage 2: Bioterror</span>**__

**First, expect a bioterrorist attack by 2013.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sharoff November 2011</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[“Bioterrorism: Growing Threat, Inadequate Budget.” November 14, 2011. [[http://gppreview.com/2011/11/14/bioterrorism-growing-threat-inadequate-budget/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many officials who have reviewed class ..</span><span class="Underline">the threat of biological terrorism was “growing.”</span>

**Second, That goes global in six weeks.**

**<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Levy 7</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Janet Ellen, The American Thinker. “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]]] BW</span>

Biological weapons are among the most dangerous in the world today__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">and can</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">be engineered and disseminated to </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">achieve a more deadly result than a nuclear attack</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">.....in scale, that's like a nuclear war."</span>

**Third, bioterror is the most likely scenario for extinction.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 02</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Richard, MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]] BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">bio</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">logical </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">weapons</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">, many without a...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;"> AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine.</span>

**Fourth, a national broadband program leads to widespread telemedicine access.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davidson and Santorelli 2009</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[A study commissioned by the Department of Commerce, Charles M Davidson and Michael J. Santorelli, Advanced Communications Law & Policy Institute at New York Law School, "The impact of broadband on telemedicine", [[http://www.uschamber.com/NR/rdonlyres/ec5epgwk7vyanosellij36hyzht3udur5ceemxscfgfayigcrkyfuntto6adiwt7s2rw2g73epqddifjvykf7n6pj6h/BroadbandandTelemedicineApril2009.pdf]]] BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">In 1999, </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">the FCC observed that broadband</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> access ...like telesurgery43 and make available a wide variety of health services and treatments in the home (see Section 5.1).</span>

**Fifth, federal wireless broadband leads to a dramatic expansion of telemedicine.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bowersox 2k1</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[MD, PhD "Information Technology and the Medical Response to Bioterrorism", edited by Rosen MD and LuceyMD/JD/MPH, Institute for Security Technology Studies at Dartmouth, [[http://www.dartmouth.edu/~engs05/md/whitepapers/Emerging_Tech/ETech.pdf#page=294|http://www.dartmouth.edu/~engs05/md/whitepapers/Emerging_Tech/ETech.pdf#page=294]] BW]</span>

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">Clinical care is still based on direct contact </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">... to smaller communities, and for extending care to </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">remote or hazardous environments</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Sixth, telemedicine solves bioterror impacts.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bowersox 2k</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[MD, PhD, "Information Technology and the Medical Response to Bioterrorism", edited by Joseph Rosen MD and Charles Lucey MD/JD/MPH, Institute for Security Technology Studies at Dartmouth, http://www.dartmouth.edu/~engs05/md/whitepapers/Emerging_Tech/ETech.pdf#page=294]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Future implementation of </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">health</span>____<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">info</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">rmation </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">technologies</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(+IT) </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">in response ...</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> mentoring as the medical response evolves, and will enable medical leader- ship to be maintained at the local level.</span>

**Seventh, this is the best way to prevent bioterror becoming a pandemic.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graham 3</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">[International Security Program, Belfar Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard (November, Allison, International Security, CIAO working papers, "Implications for Public Policy of the Threat from Bioterrorism", http://www.ciaonet.org/wps/alg02/index.html.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A modernized nationwide public health system </span><span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">__The ability to detect pathogens and__</span><span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px;"> ...</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 14pt;">communication and coordination between the various parts of our</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> public </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">health</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">system."</span>


__**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Advantage 3: Human rights</span>**__

**First, Internet Access is a human right.**

**<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">LA Times 6/3</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">["United Nations Report: Internet Access Is a Human Right - Latimes.com."Politics, National, California, Washington, Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, John McCain, Republican, Democrat, President, Election - Top of the Ticket - Latimes.com. 3 June 2011. Web. 13 July 2011. <http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/technology/2011/06/united-nations-report-internet-access-is-a-human-right.html>.**]**</span>

__<span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Internet access is a human right, according to a </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://documents.latimes.com/un-report-internet-rights/|__United Nations report__]]</span>__ <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">released on Friday....</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> makes the Internet an unprecedented force. </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"</span>__

**Second, striving for human rights are key to prevent extinction.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Copelon 99</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Rhonda, Professor, Law, CUNY, “The Indivisible Framework of International Human Rights,” NEW YORK CITY LAW REVIEW, 1998/1999, p. 71-72.]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The indivisible human rights framework</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">survived the Cold War ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">human rights framework to bear on both domestic and foreign policy.</span>__

**Third, human rights are the foremost moral imperative. Prioritize them above all else.**

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gewirth 82</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Alan Gewirth, Phil@UChicago, “Human Rights”, ‘82]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The primary thesis of the following essays is that...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> necessary conditions, to fulfill the general needs of human agency</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>__

=Sexploration 1AC - Lacan - Broke rd. 5 vs. ??= 
Ummm, ya.

**__<span style="font-size: 130%;">Observation 1: Normativity</span>__**

**1. US space discourse is centered on a masculonormative and gendered hierarchy. Sex has become a null point in outer space policy.**

**Griffin 9**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Penney, PhD in IR @ university of South Wales. “Securing Outer Space.” Pg. 60-61]</span>

**2. Outer space seems to have lost its sex appeal. A reorientation of sexual imperatives has deposited our interests in earthly occurrences. Rather than push forward, we fall back into the same cycle of mundane structural violence we maintain on earth.**

**Louv 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jason, Currently the Creative Director of the Space Development Steering Committee, along with astronauts Buzz Aldrin and Edgar Mitchell, author Howard Bloom, and several members of NASA, where he is working on shifting the world energy grid to space-based solar power—and getting the human race back into space. “[[http://hplusmagazine.com/2010/02/02/get-make-love-21st-sentury-space-sexploration/|Get Up Make Love: 21st Sentury Space Sexploration]].” Feb. 2, 2010. </span>[[http://hplusmagazine.com/2010/02/02/get-make-love-21st-sentury-space-sexploration/|__http://hplusmagazine.com/2010/02/02/get-make-love-21st-sentury-space-sexploration/__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">3. Moreover, </span>NASA problematizes female and nonmasculine bodies. Its focus on fundamental differences and removes all traces of sexuality, recreating historical sexual dichotomies**.

**Casper and Moore 95**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Lisa and Monica, professors of sociology at UC-San Fransisco. “Inscribing Bodies, Inscribing the Future.” //Sociology Perspectives//. Vol. 38. 311-333.]</span>

**4. This form of patriarchy commodifies women, ensuring this violence follows humanity no matter what planet we inhabit.**

**Milojevic 8**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Ivana, Professor of sociology @ university of the Sunshine Coast. “Women and Alternative Futures.” Berkshire Encyclopedia. 2008.]</span>

**5. Specifically, this estrangement of sexuality under the masculonormative paradigm dehumanizes the “bodies” unworthy of normative masculine traits, creating endless structural violence and devaluing the life of humans.**

**Martin 8**
[Florin, Central European University. “The Battle for the Human: Gender, Heteronormativity, and Attack of the Clones.” 2008. Pg. 35-36]

**6. And, the hetero-masculo imperative is physical & mental annihilation of difference.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Irigaray 1994</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Luce, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thinking the difference: for a peaceful revolution</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, pg 4-7</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 130%;">Observation 2: Identity</span>__**

**1. Identity politics in the status quo present the wrong response to masculonormativity. Its focus on gender differences and recreates opposition to the oppressed, fueling the totalitarian order of sexual repression.**

**Newman 2k1**
[Saul Newman, PhD. Prof. @ the university of Nottingham. __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">From Bakunin to Lacan</span>__. 2001.]

**2. The outcome of this is Nazi-style genocide of queers.**

**Mohr 92**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Richard, prof. of philo @ University of Illinois. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GAY IDEAS</span>__<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Pg. 92-93]</span>

**3. Failure to prevent genocide leads to much more destructive genocide in the future.**

**Charny 99**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Israel Charny received his A.B. in Psychology with Distinction from [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temple_University|Temple University]] in 1952, and his. Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Rochester|University of Rochester]] in 1957. He established and directed the first group psychological practice in the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philadelphia|Philadelphia]] area (1958-1973), where he was also the first Professor of Psychology at the newly founded re constructionist Rabbinical College in [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philadelphia|Philadelphia]]. “Encyclopedia of Genocide: Volume 2.” 1999.]</span>

**4. Our current understanding of the political is outdated. A psychological reevaluation is needed for the age of space exploration. This is critical to preventing the same cycle of military and cultural violence we continue to procure.**

**Chadwick 6**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Richard W., Prof. of Polisci @ University of Hawaii. “Technology, Power, Politics, Outer Space, and Ethics: Notes towards a New Paradigm.” 2006.]</span>

**5. And – put away your impacts. Short-term subjective violence should not be the main preoccupation in the round. Systemic violence should take precedence as it constructs the subjective force, distractions with subjective violence only allows the systemic to slide by unnoticed.**

**Zizek 08** (Slavoj Zizek is a senior researcher at the University of Slovenia Ljubljana. He also has a beard. Violence.)

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14px;">Thus, the advocacy statement:</span>__**

**We advocate all alleviation of the subjugation of sexual liberty and fluidity. Our advocacy cannot be contained with in a plan, a sentence, a paragraph, or even a 1ac. Our advocacy is just like sexuality, fluid and amorphous. We support the involuminous, absolute, and universal spirit of sex and love, beyond the limits of mesosphere. We may clarify, but to clarify could not possibly surmount the behemoth of our project of outward sexual awakening.**

(ya, it's weird. Don't hate.)

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 130%;">Observation 3: Solvency</span>__**

**1. This reconceptualization of outer space under a paradigm that recognizes that sex is the foremost human ideology is a pre-requisite to our space travels. It provides the proper outlook for space travel and activates a gateway way to metaphysical experiences and is the proper tool for making them a reality.**

**Louv 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jason, Currently the Creative Director of the Space Development Steering Committee, along with astronauts Buzz Aldrin and Edgar Mitchell, author Howard Bloom, and several members of NASA, where he is working on shifting the world energy grid to space-based solar power—and getting the human race back into space. “[[http://hplusmagazine.com/2010/02/02/get-make-love-21st-sentury-space-sexploration/|Get Up Make Love: 21st Sentury Space Sexploration]].” Feb. 2, 2010. </span>[[http://hplusmagazine.com/2010/02/02/get-make-love-21st-sentury-space-sexploration/|__http://hplusmagazine.com/2010/02/02/get-make-love-21st-sentury-space-sexploration/__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

**2. Challenging heteronormative discourse solves the dichotomies of the oppressed by giving them the opportunity to challenge the problem.**

**Gemerelli 9**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Tobias, prof. @ Aarus University. “QUEERING DEVELOPMENT – INCORPORATING SEXUALITY.” June 2009. ]</span>



=What they ran= 

**Rd. 1 vs. BVN JP (Jones was with Phillips not Evans)**

-They ran the same strat as rd. 2 WaRu (Security D, Privatization CP, Spending DA, Case)
-2NR was Severance Perm theory on the K.

**Rd. 3 vs. Shawnee Heights**

-They ran a Privatization CP, Spending Disad, and F-22 trade-off (lol)
-2NR was a clusterfuck

**Rd. 5 vs. ??**

-They ran T on like every word, plus Effects T.