== == 
==September October== 
==Affirmative== 
OBSERVATION ONE: I will defend the resolution as a general principle, but I am open to alternate interpretations. If the NEG would like me to defend something else, they can ask me to do so in CX.

OBSERVATION TWO IS FRAMEWORK: <span style="color: #000000;">I value justice. T</span>he nature of our relationships with and obligations towards others form the basis of the requirements of justice.

<span style="color: #000000;">Previous philosophical theories try to distill justice into a single principle that is to be applied to all situations. For example, Kantian ethics establishes human dignity or reflective practical reason as the basis for all ethical reasoning. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Bruce Ellis Benson. [Wheaton Professor who is super smart] “</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">Graven Ideologies: Nietzsche, Derrida, Marion On Modern Idolatry</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">” 2002. Intervarsity Press.</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">Emmanuel Levinas and... my own image.</span>//


<span style="color: #000000;">Other agents cease to be unique entities that exist independently of ourselves because all knowledge is said to stem from //our// systemic procedures for ethics. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">However, a sound basis for ethics requires a coherent understanding of the other. Failure to recognize and identify with that which is not us prevents us from constructing ourselves as autonomous beings.</span>

<span style="color: #1d1d1d;">Allen Wood. Fichte’s Intersubjective I. (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006)</span><span style="color: #1f2734;">[[http://www.stanford.edu/%7Eallenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf|http://www.stanford.edu/~allenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf]]</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">There the transcendental... possible at all.</span>//

<span style="color: #000000;">Thus, our self-awareness can only arise through our encounter with the Other. Without the capacity to distinguish that which is in our control from that which is not, the external world would appear to be governed by our will so we could not distinguish our own autonomous action from the decisions of the other. This makes it impossible to concpetualize our autonomy. </span>

Thus we must respect the other.

[[2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftnref|A]]<span style="color: #000000;">nthony F. Beaver. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>

//If the otherness... look at God.//


<span style="color: #000000;">Therefore, the AFF burden is to prove that animals are an other worthy of ethical consideration.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Further, prefer this framework for two additional reasons:</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">First, any coherent conception of ethics arises out of respect for the other. Discussion that precedes a response to the other is internally self-defeating because it tries to attribute characteristics to the other before encountering the other,s. This also allows us to exclude anything outside of our defined interpretation of what the other is. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Anthony F. Beaver. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">//If we can... on the environment//.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Second, ethics must accept others because we can never fully understand them. When we encounter the other, it has an independent perspective that eludes my understanding so we have no choice but to respect its otherness</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//Levinas suggests in...a power exercised.//


<span style="color: #000000;">My thesis and sole contention is that a proper understanding of the other requires the recognition of animal rights.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">A) Animals constitute an other because we are unable to truly and fully understand them. </span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">It is useful...types of beings.</span>//


<span style="color: #000000;">Further, differences between humans and animals are irrelevant. This dichotomy would thematize and totalize the other<span style="color: #000000;">[[2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftn7|.]]</span></span>

B<span style="color: #000000;">arbra Jane Davy. An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007</span>

//Our humanity is...of active invitation.//


<span style="color: #000000;">B) Justice would require the recognition of animal rights, even if animals are not truly an “other.”</span>

B<span style="color: #000000;">arbra Jane Davy. An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007</span>

//Levinas's statements in... question of ethics.//

<span style="color: #000000;">Thus, justice must recognize the rights of all agents that influence the interaction between ourselves and the other, not just those within the realm of the other. </span>

Finally, ethical obligations to others can only be conceptualized as rights.

<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">We have seen... a moral right.</span>//
== == 



----

==[[#September-October-Negative]]Negative== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I negate and value Justice.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Justice is a social construct more than an absolute or transcendent set of principles. Kuflik</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Arthur Kuflik. “Hume on Justice to Animals, Indians and Women.” April 1998. Hume Studies Volume XXIV, Number I, pp. 53-70. [[@http://www.humesociety.org/hs/issues/v24n1/kuflik/kuflik-v24n1.pdf]]. BG</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">For Hume, the...all these extremes” [EPM 1881.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As a system that exists to effectively govern societal relationships, any scheme of justice must be based on the assumption that all of its members could flourish without infringing on the rights or desires of others. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Barilan </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Y. Michael Barilan, MD, MA [Department of Internal Medicine B Meir Hospital Kfar Saba </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[@mailto:bentovia@shani.net|bentovia@shani.net]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. Department of Behavioral Sciences Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv, Israel]. Speciesism as a precondition to justice.</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">People abuse and ... trying to do so.38</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore, the standard is Demonstrating Moral Sociability. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that animals are not morally sociable creatures.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;"> survive, animals must violate the rights of other animals. Thus, they cannot coexist in a just society. Barilan 2</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Y. Michael Barilan, MD, MA [Department of Internal Medicine B Meir Hospital Kfar Saba </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[@mailto:bentovia@shani.net|bentovia@shani.net]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. Department of Behavioral Sciences Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv, Israel]. Speciesism as a precondition to justice.</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">The lion and ... own moral sense.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Aristotelian NC</span>=== 
I negate, and value justice

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The adoption of a normative system cannot be justified using techniques of rationalization. Reader[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]] explains;</span>

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-align: justify;">What is the alternative? …<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">we need to go.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">We start with individuals in a species or group to generate natural rules, and then use those facts to judge the rest of the individuals. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thompson[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In speaking of … </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">at a bonzai exhibition.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Further, good and bad are attributive adjectives meaning that something can only be good or bad in relation to what is good or bad. Geach[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I can now state my first … thesis, illegitimate.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Standard: Consistency With One’s Natural Purpose</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">I contend that the granting of animals rights is inconsistent with human’s natural purposes. Humans are omnivores. The Vegetarian Research Group. [[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Archeological Record .. and health concerns.</span>

----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[1]]] Soran Reader. “New Directions in Ethical Naturalism.” </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/27504153]]</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Vol. 3, No. 4 (Dec., 2000), pp. 341-364 Published by: </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Springer.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[2]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.pitt.edu/%7Emthompso/apprehending.pdf|http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">P.T. Geach, “Good and Evil,” //Analysis// 17, no. 2 (1956): 33-42. </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #293442; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3326442]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[4]]]Vegetarian Resource Group (Adapted from a talk by John McArdle, Ph.D.), “Humans are Omnivores,” article originally published in the May/June 1991 edition of the Vegetarian Journal</span>


=AFF - NOV/DEV= 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">value **morality** as implied by the resolution</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Morality must be based in humanity’s conception of moral personhood. Without doing so, we could never bridge the ought-ought gap, meaning that people don’t have a reason that they ought to do what they are compelled to do by morality. **Strom[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now, the ―ought-ought… about good people.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Just because people act as though they ought to be selfish, or ought to harm others doesn’t meant this fulfills the ought-ought gap. </span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">CS Lewis[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If you take a</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">…</span>**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> to behave differently.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Instead, **Velleman**</span>[[home#_ftn3|****[3]****]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">explains how people act in accordance with the way they perceive themselves. </span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">A human</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">being</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">’s</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">…</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">label “act identification.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Humans derive their reasons for acting from their unique perspective and their ability to separate their instincts from reason. **Korsgaard[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">But </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the human …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> it cannot commit itself or go forward.</span>

**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">And, Velleman 2[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]</span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> explains why questioning the authority of reasons just purports its own significance.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we have seen, … a reason to act for reasons. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> as rational agents, which seek justification for all actions, the moral rules we determine for ourselves are universal. **Engstrom[[home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we saw,</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">rational …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> of the //we// of practical knowledge. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **consistency with universal maxims**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">All humans set ends for themselves, as the very nature of being a person requires us to seek out certain end states. **Engstrom 2[[home#_ftn7|**[7]**]]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything … out through its specification.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> since we all have our own ends and desires, willing that people help you achieve those ends means that you necessarily must also help others achieve their own ends. **Engstrom 3[[home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Kant explains how …would need assistance. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, willing that others will help you means that you must necessarily help others. If I only helped others when it was beneficial to me, then this would contradict the universal maxim that people help me whenever I need help.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Engstrom 4[[home#_ftn9|**[9]**]] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">continues how living in pursuit of your own happiness ultimately leads to a contradiction in universal maxim, even if pursuing your own happiness is bound by not harming others.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">With these …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> but not his. </span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">rational agents cannot will a maxim of non-beneficence because we all require assistance. However, this duty is not couched in any pity or compassion felt for the other person, the duty is based on simply a contradiction in universal maxim regardless of emotions. **Wood[[home#_ftn10|**[10]**]]**</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Participation</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">along with love</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">… **__we actively do.__**</span>



----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. Lewis Mere Christianity1943 Scan and OCR by Copper Kettle aka T.A.G, 2003-12-21. Yekaterinburg.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]] Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="color: #141414; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Stephen Engstrom – 2009, //The Form of Practical Knowledge// [Harvard University Press, 2009], pg. 122-123. BG</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]] Allen Wood. 2008. //Kantian Ethics.// Cambridge University Press. MO.</span>


=== === 
==<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 1.1em;">NEGative</span>== 
===<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 1.1em;">Kant NC</span>=== 

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">The value is morality as implied by the resolution.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The only place in which a moral obligation could actually be derived from is reason. We as humans have the ability to question any other source of authority by asking why they are an authority</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">. **Velleman[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]** </span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we have seen, ...reason to act for reasons. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, the burden is to prove that practical reason can provide a basis for an obligation.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C1. Kantianism does not derive rights or moral laws because it relies on morality being self-legislating. This type of ethics relies on us giving reasons to ourselves for our moral rules. **However,** self-legislation cannot actually provide moral rules as there is no absolute authority in giving a law to oneself.**Ridely and Alvarez[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|[2]]]**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">We have noted, in the ....</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> any obvious content.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C2. It is impossible ever to force someone to understand why they ought to do what they ought to do. This creates and ought-ought gap in ethics. **Strom[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|[3]]]**</span>





<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now, the ―ought-.... about good people.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus as we can always question why we ought to do what we ought to do, there is no reason there is an actual obligation to help others. This offense also links into the affirmative framework because there is no reason for people actually to understand why they ought to do what they ought to do under the aff.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Calibri;">January - Februrary</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AFF</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Evolution AC</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">value is morality</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Inquiring about the nature of the good life for the moral subject is the only way to circumvent the is-ought fallacy that plagues rationalistic moral theory. Alasdair MacIntyre:</span>



Alasdair MacIntyre [Emeritus Prof. of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame], After Virtue, 3rd Edition, Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press (2007), p. 56-59



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Some later moral… a functional concept.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the resolution asks what principle is most salient to our moral identities.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This means the only constant about what constitutes a “good” human is one that seeks self-preservation. West</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">http://www.discovery.org/a/9541. Discovery Institute — Center for Science and Culture. “DOES DARWINISM SUPPORT TRADITIONAL MORALITY?.” May 1, 2009.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However, before one…. as morally blameworthy.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">My only burden is to demonstrate that deadly force is justified as self-defense against repeated abuse.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">self-preservation is the basis of ethics.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, there is no faculty that perceives moral facts in the physical world. Mackie</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">J.L Mackie. Ethics Inventing Right and Wrong Chapter 1 “The subjectivity of Values”. Page 38.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Even more important… compelled to resort.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">All ethical codes and systems can be explained by evolutionary mechanism. Rauscher</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“How a Kantian Can Accept Evolutionary Metaethics.” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/?Author=FREDERICK+RAUSCHER|FREDERICK RAUSCHER]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/0169-3867/|BIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY]]</span>. 1996. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/0169-3867/12/3/|Volume 12, Number 3]]</span>, 303-326.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The fourth application… mechanisms and behaviors.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This means that the only reason that humans make arguments for ethics and believe them is because evolution has caused them to and ethics does not exist independent of that.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, only evolutionary theory explains the structure of justifications.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ratner explains how all justification traces back to evolutionary theory and analyzes the structure of human justification.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Leonard G. Ratner, “THE UTILITARIAN IMPERATIVE: AUTONOMY, RECIPROCITY, AND EVOLUTION,” Hofstra Law Review (Spring, 1984)--Legion Lex Professor of Law, University of Southern California Law Center.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The process thus… or future survival.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that using deadly force best solves for domestic violence and promotes the survival of the victim.</span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">A) Risk Of Death: </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">The Silent Witness National Initiative provides statistics on the number of victims killed by domestic abuse.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">http://www.silentwitness.net/sub/violences.htm. 2006.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Female murder victims… and aggravated assaults.</span>


<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">B) Domestic Violence is not effectively prevented by the state</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Cohen provides 5 warrants for why the criminal justice system fails to stop domestic violence</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Jane Maslow Cohen [Professor of Law, Boston University School of Law].</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">It is not difficult… means of escape.</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">C) Running away does not solve the problem. This belief is supported empirically. Victims who try to leave their abusers are much more likely to be murdered. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The victim be- lieves… tensive safety planning</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Johnson further supports Buel with multiple other studies and provides analytic warrants.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Michael P. Johnson. –</span><span style="color: #463c3c; font-family: Calibri;"> [Michael P. Johnson (Ph.D., University of Michigan) is Emeritus Professor of Sociology, Women’s Studies, and African and African American Studies at Penn State, where he taught sociology and women’s studies for over thirty years and was designated an Alumni Teaching Fellow, Penn State’s highest teaching award. He is an internationally recognized expert on domestic violence, invited to speak at conferences and universities throughout the United States and around the world.] </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> 2008</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The feminist analysis… those still married</span>

====**NET BENEFITS AFF**==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">I affirm and value **morality** as implied by the resolution.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">I will defend the resolution as a general principle, but if the neg wants a different interpretation they can ask in CX and I will either concede to the interpretation or concede to the Violation on T.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We cannot use rationality to justify all of our beliefs. Asking us to do so is an impossible demand and asks the wrong question. **Keller[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]** explains that strong rationalism fails both because it undermines its own legitimacy and requires a “view from no-where” to objectively determine facts.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything wrong …have to</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> bow to.</span>__</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">to argue that justifications for ethics ought to be based upon rationality or emotions or intuitions is regressive. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">In the wake of the Holocaust, “never again” serves as a rallying cry, which should pervade our moral theories. **Glover**[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Not all sceptics about … pattern of failure.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> only a system of net benefits can condemn the actions of those who commit atrocities, and allow for action to prevent these atrocities. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **net benefits.**</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Contention 1 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">is the direct impact of domestic violence on victims.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) is death- The Silent Witness National Initiative[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> provides statistics on the number of victims killed by domestic abuse.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Female murder victims ….</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">assaults. </span>__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(NOW Legal Defense Fund)</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further,</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> harms to the victim outweigh harms to the abuser. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Herman[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|[4]]] </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">warrants that killing someone who intends to harm simply reaffirms human-worth.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">This same fact blocks …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of self-respect.</span>__</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">B)</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Victims are subject to constant abuse and fear of violence in abusive relationships. Women describe the psychological abuse of domestic violence to be worse than the physical abuse that they endure. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Leonard[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span></span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Even more hidden than …. crime under current statutes.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This dehumanization outweighs any other impact. **Butler**[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn6|[6]]]:</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Lives are supported …. a life that qualifies for recognition.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Deadly force can be used as a last option for victims. Victims can try all the options that the neg wants to bring up and then use deadly force; it is still a permissible option. I dare you to run a counterplan; I will perm it. My advantages are not based on deadly force being the only option.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Contention 2</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> is patriarchy.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Patriarchy and societal subjugation of women is the cause of crimes against women. **MacKinnon[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn7|[7]]]**</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">So what is meant by treatment “…the name of a way of being human.”</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further, </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">patriarchy and such conceptions of women perpetuate domestic violence. **Johnson[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn8|[8]]]**</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Another indicator …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> to gender attitudes</span>__</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">However,</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">domestic violence victims who kill their abusers are acting to defy those who define them into specific gender roles. **Taylor**[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn9|[9]]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Homicides by women</span>__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, …..: the right to physical safety.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND,</span></span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Making deadly force morally permissible uproots such norms meaning affirming stops one of the root causes of domestic violence. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ayyildiz[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn10|[10]]]</span></span>**





<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">BWS is but one moderate ….</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> and empowerment.</span>__</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Contention 3 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">is long term prevention of domestic violence. Making deadly force permissible deters abusers from attacking victims. **Zipursky[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn11|[11]]]** </span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A similar argument ….rguably enhance women’:</span>


----
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[1]]] The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. BG.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[2]]] Glover, Jonathon. //Humanity// (Yale University Press: 1999), 406</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.silentwitness.net/sub/violences.htm]]. 2006. Silent Witness began promoting an end to domestic violence in 1990 and now in 2004 we are pleased to report that domestic homicide rates are dropping significantly. Our message is one of hope, help and healing for the victims and perpetrators of domestic violence. In this site you will find out more about Silent Witness's efforts to end the silence about domestic violence and bring successful programs to every state</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[4]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Barbara Herman-1989[University of Southern California] “Murder and Mayhem: Violence and Kantian Casuistry,” //The Monist,// Vol. 72, No. 3, pp. 411-431. AS</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[5]]] Elizabeth Ann Dermody Leonard-1997[Professor Emerita of Sociology at Vanguard University] “Convicted Survivors: The Imprisonment of Battered Women Who Kill” AK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[6]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[7]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Catherine A. MacKinnon [J.D. and Ph.D. from </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yale_University|__Yale University__]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">, Professor of Law at the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Michigan_Law_School|University of Michigan Law School]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">]. //Women’s Lives Men’s Laws.//2005. print. AK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[8]]]Michael P. Johnson [Pennsylvania State University, Sociology Department]. “Domestic Violence: It's Not about Gender: Or Is It?” //Journal of Marriage and Family//, Vol. 67, No. 5 (Dec., 2005), pp. 1126-1130 SH</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[9]]] Laurie J. Taylor [BA, Wittenberg University]. "PROVOKED REASON IN MEN AND WOMEN: HEAT- OF-PASSION MANSLAUGHTER AND IMPERFECT SELF-DEFENSE”//UCLA Law Review.// Vol. 33: 1679. 1986 AK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[10]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Elisabeth Ayyildiz-1995[J.D. Chicago-Kent College of Law] “When Battered Woman’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman AS Vigilante” AS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[11]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Benjamin C. Zipursky-1996[University of Pittsburgh] “Self-Defense and Relations of Domination: Moral and Legal Perspectives on Battered Women who Kill: Self Defense, Domination and the Social Contract”. AS</span>