=Table Of Contents:= 
**[[2011-2012 Gulliver Prep (FL) - Jake Soria and Julian Asilis|Affirmative:]]**
**[[2011-2012 Gulliver Prep (FL) - Jake Soria and Julian Asilis#1AC%20--%20The%20Crestian%20Classic%20(Pine%20Crest)|Asteroids - Crestian Classic (Pine Crest)]]**
Inherency
Plan
An Asteroid Strike Would Be Bad
Solvency
Impact Calculus
**Asteroids - Nova Titan Invitational, The Glenbrooks, The Sunvintational**
Inherency
Plan
An Asteroid Strike Would be Bad
Solvency

**Negative:**
**Topicality**
Human Presence
Space Particles 
**Disadvantages**
Spending DA
Weaponization DA
=Affirmative= 
For any questions about the Affirmative please contact Julian at: [[mailto:julianasilis1@hotmail.com|julianasilis1@hotmail.com]]
We choose what Affirmative we read before each round, we promise that every Affirmative we read will be uploaded on the Wiki.
----

**1AC -- The Crestian Classic (Pine Crest)**
----
**Inherency:**
----

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Observation 1: Inherency</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The status quo is insufficient to solve asteroids</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bucknam and Gold in 08 [Mark and Robert “Survival” (00396338); Oct/Nov2008, Vol. 50 Issue 5, p141-156, 16p PN] [PHO - potentially hazardous object]</span>
<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Though </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">radar telescopes</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">….hundred million dollars.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Specifically, funding isn’t enough</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">IRWIN I. SHAPIRO et al in 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">,( Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair FAITH VILAS, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair MICHAEL A’HEARN, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair ANDREW F. CHENG, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory FRANK CULBERTSON, JR., Orbital Sciences Corporation DAVID C. JEWITT, University of California, Los Angeles STEPHEN MACKWELL, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. JAY MELOSH, Purdue University JOSEPH H. ROTHENBERG, Universal Space Network, //Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences//, __THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES PRESS__,</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf|__http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf__]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The second mandate</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">during the past 5 years.</span>

----
**Plan Text**
----

Plan: The United States Federal Government should fully fund and implement a space based infrared sensor in a Venus-like orbit for the purposes of asteroid detection.

----
**An Asteroid Strike Would Be Bad**
----

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2: an asteroid strike would be bad</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**First, an asteroid strike is __coming now__ and will __destroy__ the planet**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shiga 2009</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(David) (New Scientist; 9/26/2009, Vol. 203 Issue 2727, p30-33, 4p)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">They can strike </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…come to pass.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Asteroid impact is inevitable – you have an obligation to vote aff because its magnitude outweighs everything</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lawler in 2k7</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Andrew (__Discover__, //WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE ASTEROID STRIKES//, Nov2007, Vol. 28, Issue 1, Academic Search Premiere, accessed 6/27/2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Amid fears about__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Indian Ocean tsunami__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Independently outweighs nuclear war</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kunich 97</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel John C., </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Staff Judge Advocate, 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, Colorado, Air Force Law Review, 41 A.F. L. Rev. 119, accessed through Lexis, NB)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If you were …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> megatons of TNT</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We’ll isolate specific extinction scenarios:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 1 is ice age:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">An asteroid will cause an ice age</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Science Daily 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Extraterrestrial Impact Likely Source Of Sudden Ice Age Extinctions, ScienceDaily (Sep. 25, 2007),</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/09/070924172959.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, G.L)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the Proceedings…funded the work.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ice age makes extinction inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bingel in 7</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Dr. Ferit, Middle East Technical University of Marine Sciences, May 25 __Ice Age Possible for Scandinavia?;__ behav.org)</span>
<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Within recent months…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and even centuries.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2 is miscalculation</span>**

<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Asteroids cause accidents</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Correll ‘3</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (national security consultant, former U.S. Air Force space project, PhD in physics from University of Texas, “National Security Implications of the Asteroid Threat” 2/4/03, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/120.pdf|www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/120.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, AG)</span>
<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In addition to …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">diplomatic issues involved.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Accidents cause extinction – specifically causes war with Russia</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moore 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Carol, anti-nuclear political activist, “Is World Nuclear War Inevitable?” </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://carolmoore.net/nuclearwar/#Accidental|http://carolmoore.net/nuclearwar/#Accidental]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">November 2007) JM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Needless to say,… a relevant video.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 3 Ocean Strike</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Asteroid is likely to hit the ocean – creates huge tsunami waves, according to computer simulations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stephens 03</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Tim, Staff Writer @ UC Santa Cruz, “Massive tsunami sweeps Atlantic Coast in asteroid impact scenario for March 16, 2880”</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://news.ucsc.edu/2003/05/355.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> May 27, 2003) JM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If an asteroid</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Geophysical Journal International</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This scenario is very likely to cause extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edwards 10 (Lin, science-specialized news reporter for Physorg, “Asteroid strike into ocean could deplete ozone layer” October 27, 2010 </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.physorg.com/news/2010-10-asteroid-ocean-deplete-ozone-layer.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">) JM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Scientists in Texas … Planetary Science Letters.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ocean destruction will ensure planetary extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Craig 03** [Robin Kundis,Associate Professor at Indiana University School of Law “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection”, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem….not necessarily unique.</span>

----

**Solvency**
----

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 3 is solvency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Putting an infrared sensor in a Venus-like orbit would increase detection methods by 180% and could detect PHO’s, which threaten Earth.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bucknam and Gold in 08[Mark and Robert “Survival” (00396338); Oct/Nov2008, Vol. 50 Issue 5, p141-156, 16p PN] [PHO - potentially hazardous object]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NASA analysed options</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to ten years.14</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space based telescopes are key to successful detection-they can operate 24/7 and are more efficient</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">IRWIN I. SHAPIRO et al in 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">,( Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair FAITH VILAS, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair MICHAEL A’HEARN, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair ANDREW F. CHENG, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory FRANK CULBERTSON, JR., Orbital Sciences Corporation DAVID C. JEWITT, University of California, Los Angeles STEPHEN MACKWELL, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. JAY MELOSH, Purdue University JOSEPH H. ROTHENBERG, Universal Space Network, //Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences//, __THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES PRESS__,</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf|__http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf__]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The 2003 NASA …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> made 24 hrs/day.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Detection is key to the deflection technology the world will need to survive</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Keim 09</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(How to Defend Earth Against an Asteroid Strike By Brandon Keim March 27, 2009, is a Wired Science reporter and freelance journalist </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2009/03/planetdefense/]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> G.L)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Under NASA’s Near… comes to you."</span>
----
**Impact Calculus**
----
Observation 4: Impact Calculus

The focus on short - term impacts is bad - failure to think on a longer scale invites human extinction
**VERSCHUUR 1996**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Gerrit., Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)</span>There is an even more... assuming we take care will are species will be around for a long time, that is a question worth thinking about

Extinction outweighs - evaluate the magnitude of our scenario first
**YUDKOWSKY 2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Three groups of subjects considered .... of magnitude to detect the difference experimentally</span>

**Extinction is unique—if you think there’s a one in 75 million chance of our advantage you should vote Aff**
**POSNER 2004** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, </span>__Catastrophe: Risk and Response__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 249-250)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even if our insouciant reaction to small probabilities ... some higher taxes or otherwise to reduce the risk </span>

----
**1ac -- Nova Titan Invitational, The Glenbrooks, The Sunvintational**
----
**Inherency:**
----
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Observation 1: Inherency</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The status quo is insufficient to solve asteroids</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bucknam and Gold in 08 [Mark and Robert “Survival” (00396338); Oct/Nov2008, Vol. 50 Issue 5, p141-156, 16p PN] [PHO - potentially hazardous object]</span>
<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Though </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">radar telescopes</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">….hundred million dollars.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Specifically, funding isn’t enough</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">IRWIN I. SHAPIRO et al in 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">,( Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair FAITH VILAS, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair MICHAEL A’HEARN, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair ANDREW F. CHENG, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory FRANK CULBERTSON, JR., Orbital Sciences Corporation DAVID C. JEWITT, University of California, Los Angeles STEPHEN MACKWELL, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. JAY MELOSH, Purdue University JOSEPH H. ROTHENBERG, Universal Space Network, //Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences//, __THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES PRESS__,</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf|__http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf__]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The second mandate</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">during the past 5 years.</span>

----
**Plan Text:**
----
Plan: The United States Federal Government should fully fund and implement a space based infrared sensor in a Venus-like orbit for the purposes of asteroid detection.
----
**An Asteroid Strike Would Be Bad**
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2: an asteroid strike would be bad</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**First, an asteroid strike is __coming now__ and will __destroy__ the planet**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shiga 2009</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(David) (New Scientist; 9/26/2009, Vol. 203 Issue 2727, p30-33, 4p)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">They can strike </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…come to pass.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Asteroid impact is inevitable – you have an obligation to vote aff because its magnitude outweighs everything</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lawler in 2k7</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Andrew (__Discover__, //WHAT TO DO BEFORE THE ASTEROID STRIKES//, Nov2007, Vol. 28, Issue 1, Academic Search Premiere, accessed 6/27/2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Amid fears about__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__Indian Ocean tsunami__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Extinction outweighs – evaluate the magnitude of our scenario first**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**YUDKOWSKY 2006** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in//Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__Three groups of ….the difference experimentally__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Independently outweighs nuclear war</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kunich 97</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel John C., </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Staff Judge Advocate, 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, Colorado, Air Force Law Review, 41 A.F. L. Rev. 119, accessed through Lexis, NB)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If you were …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> megatons of TNT</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We’ll isolate specific extinction scenarios:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Scenario 1 is ice age:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">An asteroid will cause an ice age</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Science Daily 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Extraterrestrial Impact Likely Source Of Sudden Ice Age Extinctions, ScienceDaily (Sep. 25, 2007),<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/09/070924172959.htm]]</span>, G.L)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the Proceedings…funded the work.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ice age makes extinction inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bingel in 7</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Dr. Ferit, Middle East Technical University of Marine Sciences, May 25 __Ice Age Possible for Scandinavia?;__ behav.org)</span>
<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Within recent months…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and even centuries.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2 is miscalculation</span>**

<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Asteroids cause accidents</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Correll ‘3</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (national security consultant, former U.S. Air Force space project, PhD in physics from University of Texas, “National Security Implications of the Asteroid Threat” 2/4/03, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/120.pdf|www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/120.pdf]]</span>, AG)</span>
<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In addition to …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">diplomatic issues involved.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Accidents cause extinction – specifically causes war with Russia</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moore 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Carol, anti-nuclear political activist, “Is World Nuclear War Inevitable?” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://carolmoore.net/nuclearwar/#Accidental|http://carolmoore.net/nuclearwar/#Accidental]]</span>November 2007) JM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Needless to say,… a relevant video.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 3 Ocean Strike</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Asteroid is likely to hit the ocean – creates huge tsunami waves, according to computer simulations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stephens 03</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Tim, Staff Writer @ UC Santa Cruz, “Massive tsunami sweeps Atlantic Coast in asteroid impact scenario for March 16, 2880”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://news.ucsc.edu/2003/05/355.html]]</span> May 27, 2003) JM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If an asteroid</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Geophysical Journal International</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This scenario is very likely to cause extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edwards 10 (Lin, science-specialized news reporter for Physorg, “Asteroid strike into ocean could deplete ozone layer” October 27, 2010 </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.physorg.com/news/2010-10-asteroid-ocean-deplete-ozone-layer.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">) JM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Scientists in Texas … Planetary Science Letters.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ocean destruction will ensure planetary extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Craig 03** [Robin Kundis,Associate Professor at Indiana University School of Law “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection”, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem….not necessarily unique.</span>

----
**Solvency:**
----
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 3 is solvency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Putting an infrared sensor in a Venus-like orbit would increase detection methods by 180% and could detect PHO’s, which threaten Earth.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bucknam and Gold in 08[Mark and Robert “Survival” (00396338); Oct/Nov2008, Vol. 50 Issue 5, p141-156, 16p PN] [PHO - potentially hazardous object]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NASA analysed options</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">…</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to ten years.14</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space based telescopes are key to successful detection-they can operate 24/7 and are more efficient</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">IRWIN I. SHAPIRO et al in 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">,( Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair FAITH VILAS, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair MICHAEL A’HEARN, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair ANDREW F. CHENG, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory FRANK CULBERTSON, JR., Orbital Sciences Corporation DAVID C. JEWITT, University of California, Los Angeles STEPHEN MACKWELL, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. JAY MELOSH, Purdue University JOSEPH H. ROTHENBERG, Universal Space Network, //Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences//, __THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES PRESS__,</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf|__http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf__]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The 2003 NASA …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> made 24 hrs/day.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Detection is key to the deflection technology the world will need to survive</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Keim 09</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(How to Defend Earth Against an Asteroid Strike By Brandon Keim March 27, 2009, is a Wired Science reporter and freelance journalist <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2009/03/planetdefense/]]</span> G.L)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Under NASA’s Near… comes to you." </span>
=Negative= 
For Negative Information contact Jake at: [[mailto:jakesoria62098@gmail.com|jakesoria62098@gmail.com]]
----
**Topicality**
----
**1nc Human Presence**
----
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">I. Interpretation –</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a) Exploration means to expand human presence to space</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Logsdon, 9 –</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,”</span>//</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a … “primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">b) development also has to be human presence</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Livingston 07</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eric Westling is ascience writer</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">, pundit on science, technology, …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">manned commercial projects in space</span>__**</span>

----
=====**2nc Counter Interpretation**===== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Their interpretation muddles debate –</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Faith 8/31/9</span>__**</span>

<span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1456/1]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">“ Giving NASA a clear mission “</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">G. Ryan Faith is an adjunct fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Giving NASA a clear mission</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">If … step to build on past accomplishments and lay the groundwork for future missions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">b)And, aff T cards distort the language and slay precision</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wright 6/28/6</span>__**</span>

<span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Overseeing the revival of Teachers in Space …. __attempt to co-opt the language.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">c)international consensus is on our side</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ehrenfreund and Peter 9</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 244-256, “ Toward a paradigm shift in managing future global space exploration endeavors”</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ehrenfreund: Pascale Ehrenfreund, (Ph.D. Thesis University of Vienna/ University Paris VII) Research Professor of Space Policy and International Affairs. Molecular Biology, Space Science and related policy making, technology management.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nicolas Peter: Research Fellow, European Space Policy Institute, M.A. in International Science and Technology Policy - Elliott School of International Affairs -The George Washington University, Washington D.C., USA</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The rising number of new countries embarking …</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;"> strategy: the framework for coordination <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://esamultimedia.esa.int/docs/GES_Framework_final.pdf]]</span>(2007) [GES 2007].[10].</span>

[[#Negative-Topicality-T Human-2NC AT: robots = we meet]]**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC AT: robots = we meet</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There is a clear difference between robots and humans – they don’t meet</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ehrenfreud 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (P., Space Policy Institute – George Washington University, et al., “Cross-Cultural Management Supporting Global Space Exploration”, Acta Astronautica, 66(1-2), January-February, p. 245)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">1 The European Space Agency ESA defines exploration …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">neighboring planets and small bodies of our solar system</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">[[#Negative-Topicality-T Human-2NC satellites link to limits]]**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">2NC satellites link to limits</span>**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, limits</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">- they blow the lid off the topic – here is a SHORT list of satellites that they would allow for</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia 2007</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Types of Satellites” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.infoplease.com/ce6/sci/A0860930.html]]</span>, PZ)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Satellites can be divided into five</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;"> principal</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">types: research, communications, weather, navigational, and applications</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">… can also use the GLONASS data if equipped with the proper processing software.</span>



====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">[[#Negative-Topicality-T Human-2NC AT: aff ground]]**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">2NC AT: aff ground</span>**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">humans are the core of the topic – here’s a caselist</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Vernikos 2008</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;"> -- member of the Space Studies Board of the National Academy and former director of NASA’s Life Sciences Division (Joan 1/1 2008, “Is Space Exploration Worth the Cost? A Freakonomics Quorum.” A quorum on Freakonomics blog, run by Steven J. Dubner, “</span><span style="background-color: initial; color: blue; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.freakonomics.com/2008/01/11/is-space-exploration-worth-the-cost-a-freakonomics-quorum/]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">) Without risking human lives, robotic</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">technology</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">such as [non human]</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">unmanned</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">missions</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">, ...but, should the need arise, provide alternative habitats for humanity’s survival.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">*we don’t endorse gendered language</span>


----

**T Space Particles**
----

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;">Space is the void between celestial bodies </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Abby **__Cessna__**, July 5 20**__09__**, UniverseToday.com, “Interplanetary Space”,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/34074/interplanetary-space/]]</span></span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;">The region of </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/25406/space/|space]]</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;"> within our </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/15908/3d-solar-system/|Solar System]]</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;"> is called interplanetary space, also known as interplanetary medium. Most ….</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 9px;"> hit interstellar space. </span>


**The phrase “OF SPACE” in the resolution means the activity must occur IN space – not simply develop for USE in space.**
**BOCKSTIEGEL 95** Ph D., Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chair Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chair of Council of the National German Space Agency
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The official title …</span> __as ‘use’ of space.__

**AND – of creates precision – the OBJECT of the development/exploration must be SPACE.**
**COLLINS 09**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">[Collins World English Dictionary, dictionary.com]</span>
__of__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho'; font-size: 11px;">ɒ</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">v, ( //unstressed// ) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">ə</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">v) </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">-- //prep//</span>
__1. used with a …in the gerund__<span style="font-size: 11px;">:</span> //<span style="font-size: 11px;">the</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">breathing</span> __o__////<span style="font-size: 11px;">f</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">a</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">fine</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">swimmer(subject)</span>// <span style="font-size: 11px;">;</span> //<span style="font-size: 11px;">the</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">breathing</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">of</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">clean</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">air</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">(object)</span>//

----
**Disadvantages**
----
**Spending Disadvantage** 
----
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space programs cause huge spending</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hsu 9 (Feng, Ph.D. and Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group, and Ken Cox, Ph.D. and Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]]</span>)</span>
<span class="heading3char0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">There are limited financial resources from</span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt;">…</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">affordable but can be mutually supported.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Failure to maintain fiscal discipline collapses investor confidence and causes economic collapse</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington Post, 1-7</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 11, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/07/AR2011010701826.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bernanke laid out a … and increasing business confidence.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic collapse causes global nuclear war</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5.5pt;"> – PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span>, EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5.5pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in a</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5.5pt;">more</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">dog-eat-dog world.</span>__</span>

----
**2nc Overview:**
----
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The economy is on the brink now</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Business Report 8-26</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (The Chronicle with Bloomberg, “US Economy: Recovery Sputters, Consumer Confidence Sinks”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/g/a/2011/08/26/bloomberg1376-LQJC203T6SRC01-0L33AMUKCOH4R4TUS87KAQN8QA.DTL]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">"</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The consumer is clearly unnerved</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">,"</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;"> GDP. Estimates ranged from 0.3 percent to 1.6 percent.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">c.</span>****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">magnitude</span>__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">- every impact we access more through the economy</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Silk 93**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Leonard, Professor of Economics – Pace University, “Dangers of Slow Growth”, Foreign Affairs, 72(1), Winter, p. 173-174)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the absence of</span>__** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">such shifts of</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> **__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">human and capital resources …and more liberal and open economies and societies</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">.</span>

----
**2nc At: Investor Confidence Low Now**
----
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Investor confidence is low but rising – magnifies the internal link</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">nited **P**ress **I**nternational **10-11** (2011, “Consumer Confidence Low, But Rising”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/2011/10/11/Consumer-confidence-low-but-rising/UPI-54301318346476/]]</span>, PZ)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">RAMSEY, N.J., Oct. 11 (UPI) -- U.S. consumer confidence …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Consumer confidence is still in a vulnerable territory, despite its modest improvement in October</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">," Raghavan Mayur, president of TIPP, said in a statement.</span>

----
**2nc At: No Impact From Economic Collapse**
----
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline causes war – studies prove</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Royal 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>

----
**Space Weaponization Disadvantage** 
----
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">As is well … in these details. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Space weaponization makes nuclear war inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> Gordon </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Mitchell et al</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Communication at the University of Pittsburg, 7/20</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">01</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense no. 6, </span>
http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html.)
A buildup of .... conflict ever seen.

**NASA is inherently tied to and influenced by the military**
Chris Hables **Gray**, PhD associate professor of the cultural studies of science and technology, 19**99**, “Human Machine Systems in Space: The Construction of Progress” http://www.chrishablesgray.org/CyborgCitizen/nasa.html)
Second is an .. true of biopolitics.

----

**2nc Impact Calculus** 
----

**Time frame - Space weapons will create nuclear preemption incentives before deployment can be completed**
**Englehart, 8** – patent litigation attorney (Alex, “COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE TREATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS,” 17 Pac. Rim L. & Pol'y J. 133, lexis)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">D. An Effective U.S. Space Weapons Deployment </span>
__The actual deployment of satellite-based weapons__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> …in the coming decades </span>__is sure to inflame Russia__<span style="font-size: 10px;">and drive it further away from the United States.</span>

----

**2nc Uniqueness**
----

**No space weaponization now**
**Denmark 2010 -** Fellow with the Center for a New American Security<span style="font-size: 10px;"> [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested]]</span> %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]</span>
__Space’s militarization__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> — its use as a medium to …f space capabilities hostile to U.S. national interests. 38</span>

**The United States is pursuing cooperation in space now**
**Rose, 11 –**Deputy Assistant S2ecretary of the Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance (Frank, “STRENGTHENING STABILITY IN SPACE,” REGULATORY INTELLIGENCE DATA, 4/4, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 9px;">Why is SSA important to space security? A long-standing principle …</span> __the risk of mishaps, misperceptions, and mistrust__<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span>