[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - NDCA - EOS== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should fund and launch a substantial amount of Earth observation satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Warming</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – Warming is real & anthropogenic – causes extinction and systemic deaths – We control probability and magnitude</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Deibel 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">there is one </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">major existential threat</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">to ...potentially </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">to </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Carbon cycle feedback loops mean we control timeframe</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Von Diemling et al 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (T. Schneider von Deimling, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, M. Meinshausen, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, A. Levermann, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and Potsdam University Physics Department, V. Huber, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, K. Frieler, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, D. M. Lawrence, Climate and Global Dynamics Division, National Center for Atmospheric Research and V. Brovkin, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Max Planck Institute for Meteorology, published May 12, 2011, “Estimating the permafrost-carbon feedback on global warming,” Biogeosciences Discuss., 8, 4727–4761, 2011)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The climate response to</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> anthropogenic ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> feedback refer to (Schewe et al., 2011).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, warming comparatively outweighs all other impacts </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Doebbler 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Curtis, international human rights lawyer, two threats to our existence, ahram weekly, july 2011)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change is</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> widely acknowledged ... countries. They continue in this vein.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, prefer our authors – They’re more qualified</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ashley 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Certainty in science If you ask a scientist ... media has tragically and thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, plan solves warming – 2 internal links – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST is Data – Earth observation satellites close climate data gaps – Influences policy to cap emissions – US action is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et al. 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> provide globally consistent observations</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> and ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> observations that can only be done from space</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, no way to solve warming without closing data gaps.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gifford 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Robert Gifford, Professor of psychology at University of Victoria, May – June 2011, “The dragons of inaction: Psychological Barriers That Limit Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation,” American Psychologist Vol. 66, No. 4, 290–302 DOI: 10.1037/a0023566</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Experimental research on resource dilemmas ... inaction on the part of the public. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Plan is the only way to ensure international preventative measures and cooperation – There’s no hope of solvency otherwise.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et al. 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">There has been speculation for more than a ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> is incorporated into public policymaking.4 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, SECOND internal link is leadership – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">US Earth Observation collapses in the status quo</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AMS 1/24</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (AMS Commission on the Weather & Climate Enterprise, http://annual.ametsoc.org/2012/index.cfm/programs-and-events/town-hall-meetings/town-hall-meeting-impending-earth-observations-network-gap1/) JPG</span>
A<span class="underline"> perilous </span>gap in Earth observations, ...<span class="underline"> weather forecasts remain as accurate as possible.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, that decks US environmental leadership – Plan’s key to prevent collapse.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sabathier & Faith 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Vincent Sabatheir, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program. From 2004 to 2009, he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications; Ryan Faith, associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 31 July 2007, “Minding the Gaps: Keeping Exploration Alive,” Online: http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070731_space_commentary.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, the third challenge relates to the collection ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> our leadership role is at great risk.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, US environmental leadership is the only way to solve warming globally.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ivanova & Esty 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Asst. Prof of Govt and Enviro Policy @ College of William of Mary and Director of Global Environmental Governance Project @ Yale, and Prof of Enviro Law @ Yale, “Reclaiming US Leadership in Global Environmental Governance”, http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">In this article, we address these core questions. We argue ... those related to protecting the planet </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is Food</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – Massive food crises coming now – they can be solved, but nothing is being done to do so</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Bittman 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, writer for the new york times, cites Julian Cribb, director of australia’s national science agency, fellow of the Australian academy of technological sciences and engineering, has published more than 8000 scientific studies, “seeing a time (soon) when we’ll all be dieting,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/25/books/25book.html?pagewanted=print)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Today we have another worry: roughly the same number ... those of the Green Revolution.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, plan solves food crises – 3 internal links – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST is food prices – Earth-observation is key to reliable crop estimates – Only way to keep future food prices stable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rocchio 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Laura, nasa scientist, “landsat – protecting the price of bread,” http://landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov/news/news-archive/soc_0010.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Year-to-year we expect the price of bread to ... shortage 35 years ago that initially led FAS to use Landsat data.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, fluctuating food prices triggers massive global food shortages – outweighs on timeframe and magnitude</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cribb 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Julian, director of australia’s national science agency, fellow of the Australian academy of technological sciences and engineering, has published more than 8000 scientific studies, “the coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” google books)JFS <we do not endorse gendered language> <note: FAO = food and agriculture organization></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">With eloquent symbolism, this Petronian banquet made ... and which we have forgotten to renew.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Second internal link is precision farming – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Current farming methods are unsustainable – Satellite imagery is key to forecasting, soil mapping, and wasteland management – the plan is key to land efficiency and food production</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Singh et al 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Pradeep, Feroz Ahmed Parry, Kouser Parveen, Sumati Narayan, Asima Amin, Ahsis Vaidya, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir, International Journal of Current Research, Vol. 3, Issue 4, april 2011, “precision farming and its role in vegetable production,” http://www.journalcra.com/sites/default/files/Download_331.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Remote sensors are generally categorized as aerial or ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> for increasing the food production</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, the plan is key to precision farming – that’s the only way to keep food production sustainable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Singh et al 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Pradeep, Feroz Ahmed Parry, Kouser Parveen, Sumati Narayan, Asima Amin, Ahsis Vaidya, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir, International Journal of Current Research, Vol. 3, Issue 4, april 2011, “precision farming and its role in vegetable production,” http://www.journalcra.com/sites/default/files/Download_331.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Agriculture is the backbone of our country and economy, ...has a desirable benefit to the farmers and to society.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, we solve the __only__ internal link to precision farming – EOS is the only way to have sustainable agriculture</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cookson 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Clive, jan 26, writer for financial times, specialist in business and food sustainability, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/ad6e3492-0a00-11df-8b23-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1j1tAYTI1)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> technological battle to raise agricultural ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> machinery – adding perhaps $20,000, or 10 per cent, to the cost of a fully equipped new tractor.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Sustainable ag solves extinction – also checks all food shortages</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kahn 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Linda, june, bulletin of the atomic scientists, linda is a research @ princeton’s program on science and global security, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/laura-h-kahn/the-uncertainty-surrounding-sustainable-agriculture)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">So, though all of our planet's problems may have started with ... time, an even greater challenge awaits us: Will we be able to feed billions andpreserve the natural world?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, sustainable ag makes nuclear war survivable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kearny 87 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Cresson, oak ridge national laboratory, us department of energy, Oregon institute of science and medicine, “nuclear war survival skills,” http://www.nukepills.com/docs/nuclear_war_survival_skills.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Even if all food-producing animals were lost, ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> basic</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">unprocessed </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">foods</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, third internal link is US agricultural leadership – US governmental action now is key to solve failure of the American ag industry.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">WFP 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (World Food Prize,“Chicago Council Wins Grant to Expand Global Agricultural Development Initiative,” Dec 23, 2010, pg. http://www.worldfoodprize.org/index.cfm?nodeID=24667&action=display&newsID=11003)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A number of policy developments indicate that </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">the ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> supporting agriculture</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> as a poverty alleviation tool.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, US ag industry failure triggers mass death</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sircus 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, director of agriculture news, “agricultural apocalypse 2010,” http://agriculture.imva.info/food-prices/agricultural-apocalypse-2010)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The world faces “mass starvation” following</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">North </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">America’s ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> listen to what else the USDA is saying.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is No War</span>**

Great power wars are over – war is unpopular, nuclear weapons deter and economic interdependence
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fettweis 6</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Chris, Profess at the National Security Decision Making Department at US Naval War College) 2006 'A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?,' International Studies Review</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Most IR scholarship carries on as if such an anomaly ... anyone should believe that it could not.</span>

AND, no accidents – Expertise, history, deterrence and uncertainty ensure safe handling of nuclear weapons.
Waltz 95 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kenneth N. Waltz (inventor of structural realism, father of deterrence, professor of political science @ Columbia) 1995 "Peace, Stability and Nuclear Weapons" [[http://www.ciaonet.org/wps/wak01/]]</span>
<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;">Large numbers of weapons increase the ...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;"> controllable is too dangerous to bear.</span>__</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">No great power wars </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Mandelbaum 99</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University (Michael, Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy, The Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, ... against an attack on a king.”</span>

AND, No great power wars – diplomacy and nuclear weapons
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">David </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bosco 6</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Editor at Foreign Policy Magazine) July 23 2006 'Could This Be the Start of World War III?,' http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/sunday/commentary/la-op-bosco23jul23,0,6188365.story?coll=la-sunday-commentary</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There is another factor working in ... hash out developing crises.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, No nuclear escalation </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Robinson 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[C. Paul, President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command, 3-22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Let me then state my most important conclusion ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> a stable and peaceful world</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist 99 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As I write about Russia's nuclear war preparations, I get some ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> few</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (if any) </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">fallout casualties</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


=Negative= 
==Rounds== 
===NDCA=== 
=====Round 1 - Niles North BG===== 

Aff: SPS

1NC: T-Meso, T-Human, Cadmium PIC, Strat CP, Radio DA, Case
2NC: T-Meso, Radio, Cadmium, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: T-Human

=====Round 4 - Edgemont ??===== 

Aff: Comsats

1NC: T-Human, Eaarth PIC, Foucalt, Radio DA, Case
2NC: Eaarth PIC, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: Case (China Turn)

=====Round 6 - Jesuit College Prep ??===== 

Aff: SPS

1NC: T-Its, T-Human, T-Mesosphere, Radio DA, Strat CP, Cadmium PIC, Case
2NC: T-Its(Shadow), Cadmium (kicked the cp, extended the net benefit), Radio DA, Strat CP, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: Radio DA, Strat CP, Case

=====Round 7 - Edina LH===== 

Aff: Something about [[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neo_(The_Matrix)|NEOs]]...

1NC: **D**at Yung K
2NC: **A** Quasi-Buddhist Speech of Indifference
1NR: **D**ouche K
2NR: **A**n Artificially Sweetened Speech

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]