[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==SPS 1AC (Straight Up)== 
===Observation 1 is inherency=== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Solar power satellite technology is available now, but the United States is not pursuing it</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cox 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[3-23-2011William John, Consortium News, “The Race for Solar Energy from Space,” [[http://www.consortiumnews.com/Print/2011/032311b.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Presently, only the top industrialized nations have the technological, industrial and economic power to compete in the race for space solar energy. In spite of, and perhaps because of, the current disaster, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Japan occupies the inside track, as it is the only nation that has a dedicated space solar energy program and which is highly motivated to change directions. China, which has launched astronauts into an earth orbit and is rapidly become the world’s leader in the production of wind and solar generation products, will undoubtedly become a strong competitor. However, the United States, which should have every advantage in the race, is most likely to stumble out of the gate and waste the best chance it has to solve its economic, energy, political and military problems.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">A Miraculous Source of Abundant Energy</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Space-solar energy is the greatest source of untapped energy which could, potentially, completely solve the world’s energy and greenhouse gas emission problems. The technology currently exists to launch solar-collector satellites into geostationary orbits around the Earth to convert the Sun’s radiant energy into electricity 24 hours a day and to safely transmit the electricity by microwave beams to rectifying antennas on Earth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Following its proposal by Dr. Peter Glaser in 1968, the concept of solar power satellites was extensively studied by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). By 1981, the organizations determined that the idea was a high-risk venture; however, they recommended further study. With increases in electricity demand and costs, NASA took a "fresh look" at the concept between 1995 and 1997. The NASA study envisioned a trillion-dollar project to place several dozen solar-power satellites in geostationary orbits by 2050, sending between two gigawatts and five gigawatts of power to Earth. The NASA effort successfully demonstrated the ability to transmit electrical energy by microwaves through the atmosphere; however, the study’s leader, John Mankins, now says the program "has fallen through the cracks because no organization is responsible for both space programs and energy security." The project may have remained shelved except for the military’s need for sources of energy in its campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan, where the cost of gasoline and diesel exceeds $400 a gallon. A report by the Department of Defense’s National Security Space Office in 2007 recommended that the U.S. "begin a coordinated national program" to develop space-based solar power. There are three basic engineering problems presented in the deployment of a space-based solar power system: the size, weight and capacity of solar collectors to absorb energy; the ability of robots to assemble solar collectors in outer space; and the cost and reliability of lifting collectors and robots into space. Two of these problems have been substantially solved since space-solar power was originally proposed.</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">New thin-film advances in the design of solar collectors have steadily improved, allowing for increases in the efficiency of energy conversion and decreases in size and weight. At the same time, industrial robots have been greatly improved and are now used extensively in heavy manufacturing to perform complex tasks</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The remaining problem is the expense of lifting equipment and materials into space. The last few flights of the space shuttle this year will cost $20,000 per kilogram of payload to move satellites into orbit and resupply the space station. It has been estimated that economic viability of space solar energy would require a reduction in the payload cost to less than $200 per kilogram and the total expense, including delivery and assembly in orbit, to less than $3,500 per kilogram. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Although there are substantial costs associated with the development of space-solar power, it makes far more sense to invest precious public resources in the development of an efficient and reliable power supply for the future, rather than to waste U.S. tax dollars on an ineffective missile defense system, an ego trip to Mars, or $36 billion in risky loan guarantees by the DOE to the nuclear power industry</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">With funding for the space shuttle ending next year and for the space station in 2017, the United States must decide upon a realistic policy for space exploration, or else it will be left on the ground by other nations, which are rapidly developing futuristic space projects.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">China is currently investing $35 billion of its hard-currency reserves in the development of energy-efficient green technology, and has become the world’s leading producer of solar panels. In addition, China has aggressively moved into space by orbiting astronauts and by demonstrating a capability to destroy the satellites of other nations. Over the past two years, Japan has committed $21 billion to secure space-solar energy. By 2030, the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency plans to "put into geostationary orbit a solar-power generator that will transmit one gigawatt of energy to Earth, equivalent to the output of a large nuclear power plant." Japanese officials estimate that, ultimately, they will be able to deliver electricity at a cost of $0.09 per kilowatt-hour, which will be competitive with all other sources. </span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Lack of funding and clear responsibility with the United States federal government results in lack of development, despite viability of technology.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|Shea]]</span> 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: #000033; font-size: 8pt;">Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 20**10** (Karen Cramer, Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html NP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Space solar power has been studied by both NASA and the DOE</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Unfortunately, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">NASA considers SSP to be an energy issue and the DOE considers it to be a space issue. Neither is currently funding SSP research</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Added to this, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">NASA is in crisis with the retirement of the Space Shuttle, while trying to operate the International Space Station and return to the Moon with a launch system that is behind schedule, over budget and losi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ng </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">capability.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 2009 Augustine Committee called for a $3 billion increase in the NASA budget just to keep up with its current commitments. </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">NASA clearly cannot take the lead in SPS research and development</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the past, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">DOE has been interested in nuclear technology because of its connection to defense and DOE was interested in distributed systems for renewable energy. Now the DOE is putting emphasis on clean coal and biofuels. DOE has not shown any renewed interest in Solar Power Satellites</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">DOE thinks launch costs are too high to ever be profitable, and space solar power is unproven both in terms of commercial viability and safety</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. To confirm safety and commercial viability requires funding. Many groups are working on reducing launch costs</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. SSP development should be funded in anticipation of launch cost reductions.</span>

===Observation 2 is harms=== 
===Adv. 1 is Captain Planet=== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">There are no suitable alternatives to fossil fuels in the status quo; by 2020 Peak oil and Peak Natural gas will swiftly end energy distribution – impacts occur too fast for alternative to be researched.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fan Et al. 6/2 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William Fan, Harold Martin, James Wu, Brian Mok; 6/2/2011; Industry and Technology Assessment, SPACE BASED SOLAR POWER; [[http://www.pickar.caltech.edu/e103/Final%20Exams/Space%20Based%20Solar%20Power.pdf)AM]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Recent studies regarding “peak oil,” the time when the world oil supply reaches its highest volume before it declines, suggest a time frame between now and 2016</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and multiple scenarios predict a 10% reduction in production by 2030</span> [8]. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Oil makes up 29% of the current energy supply</span> [9]. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While these numbers suggest that oil will decrease at 0.005% per year, its actual decrease will not be gradual, but instead be a sudden precipitous drop over the course of only a few years [8], not giving the market enough time to develop a suitable alternative without having a destructive effect on the global economy. Coal, also makes up 29% of the current energy supply. “Peak coal” is estimated by academic sources to be reached in the next few years, and have been reduced to 50% of peak values by 2047</span> [10],<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> though significant technological improvement in mining and refining low quality coal may reduce some of the effects</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Producing 25% of the world’s sources of energy, natural gas is the only resource that is not expected to peak until 2020[11]. However, natural gas is not commonly shipped over ocean lanes, leading to a natural gas crisis currently in North America</span>, as <span style="font-size: 8pt;">domestic (US and Canadian) production is not enough to meet demand, even with the use of environmentally destructive “shale gas” and other unconventional natural gas resources</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. North American peak natural gas could occur as early as 2013 [12]. Including the widespread use of environmentally destructive practices, North American gas production will only increase by 5% by 2025</span> [13]. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Combining this data with data for total consumption gives us the following table[14]. The projections were all constructed using the standard Hubbert method, after which the overall changes were linearized and then extrapolated to 2025, as shown in the table below</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Nuclear and renewables, discounting traditional biomass, currently accounts for 8.8% of the world energy supply. If we assume a low, basic growth in energy demand, by year 2025 there will need to be a 32% increase in energy supply. If we project a loss of 6.7% by 2025 from fossil fuels, there needs to be an amount of 38.7% of the current energy supply that comes from nuclear and renewables</span>. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This amounts to an increase of 12.8% per year from nuclear and renewables alone. While on the other hand, a 4% annual increase in energy demand would lead to a necessary 18.5% increase in the renewable and nuclear. Nuclear energy is approximately half the size of the renewable energy sources. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Considering the difficulties there are in disposing of nuclear waste, and the recent problems with the nuclear facilities in Japan casting doubt on the safety of nuclear energy, it is unlikely that nuclear energy will be able to meet this increased demand</span>. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, though currently renewable energy is increasing at a rapid rate, of around 20% over the renewables (mainly hydroelectric power) as a whole [14]. This indicates that there needs to be growth of a new source of energy in order to match such demand. Furthermore, as supply is not linear, but is instead expected to have sharp changes due to the Hubbert curve, a prepositioned alternative source of energy may have much to gain.</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And, continued use of coal power results in mass death and health complications and increased warming</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Helm and Larsen 07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ethan and Benjamin N.-Department of Biology, Lake Forest College)([[http://legacy.lakeforest.edu/images/userImages/eukaryon/Page_6561/p65CoalPower_Helm.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 3pt;">)</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> February 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Over 23,600 people die from it yearly</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> It causes more than 554,000 asthma attacks and 38,200 </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">nonfatal </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">heart attacks</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. (Schneider, 2004). It has left twenty-five percent of New York’s Adirondack Lakes uninhabitable (Wu, 2003). </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is a large contributor to the global warming trend which is melting the artic and </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">glaciers world wide and </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">pushing </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">many</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> species to the brink of extinction</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Schneider, 2004). </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Coal power plants are not only affecting our cities</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> by </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">cloaking them with</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ominous </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">clouds of pollution, but also our children, us, and the world we live in</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Most of this is preventable. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Over half of the electricity in the United States comes from coal power</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and 548 power plants have not been modified to reduce emissions in the last thirty years (Schneider, 2004). In this time period, huge </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">technological advances have been made that could significantly reduce pollution</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Unfortunately, such technology has mainly been implemented in newly constructed power plants and current legislation does not require old power plants to be modified (Corrigan, 2005). As such, over 70% of the sulfur dioxide and 62% of nitrogen oxides released from these plants could have been prevented (Wu, 2003). Additionally, large amounts of ozone, particulate matter, and carbon dioxide could also be reduced if older plants implemented extant technology. Part of the problem with </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">coal power is that it does not produce just one pollutant.</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Carbon dioxide, Sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ozone, and particulate matter are all released through burning coal. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nitrogen oxides, ozone, sulfur dioxides, and particulate matter have all been linked with respiratory problems</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Additionally, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">particulate matter has been associated with cardiac disease, and all </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">of the </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">pollutants have been shown to be </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">harmful and </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">potentially fatal to children</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Schneider, 2004). While there are many similarities, pollutants work in a variety of different ways. For example, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and sulfur dioxides form acids with other compounds, which cause scarring in the lungs (Schneider, 2004). Also, ozone is damaging because it catalyzes oxidation inside the body. Through oxidation, it can produce free radicals, which cause muscle pain, inhibit hormone function, and disrupt neural impulses (Wu, 2003). While </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">coal power pollution affects people in a variety of ways,</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> we are focusing on the direct physiological effects of pollution on humans. As such, we are not researching the heat trapping capabilities of carbon dioxide. Additionally, we will not be focusing on the environmental impacts on biodiversity due to nitrogen oxides. Instead, we concentrated on the cardiac, pulmonary, and developmental problems associated with pollution from coal power. Pulmonary Effects of Coal Power Pollution Nearly eighty years ago, a dense mist settled to the east of Belgium’s third largest metropolitan area, Liege (Roholm, 1937). Soon after the emergence of the mist, doctors in the area began to realize something was wrong. Several thousand acute pulmonary attacks had been caused in the area and there were sixty confirmed deaths (Firket, 1931). In the small town of Meuse, people did not know what hit them. They would later find out that a poison in the form of sulfur dioxide was being produced by a local factory (Roholm, 1937). This discovery was met with much skepticism, and sulfur dioxide emission standards were not increased until the 1970s. Since then, the scientific world has investigated the role of the pollutants released through industrialized processes, and as a result, we know that sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, and ozone all have deleterious pulmonary effects (Pope et al., 2002). </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> recent </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">study </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">conducted by Kan and Chen</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> in Shanghai found </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">mortality caused by pulmonary problems was associated pollution from coal power plant</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">s; these findings lead to the conclusion that </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">c</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">urrent pollution levels are a threat to the general population’s health</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in Shanghai (2003).</span>
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Fossil fuels release greenhouse gases, which are the main cause of global warming</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">André Felipe </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Simões & Rovere **08**,</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> D.Sc., Researcher, The Center for Integrated Studies on Climate Change and the Environment and Visitant Professor at the Energy Department of the State University of Campinas, </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Emilio Lèbre La </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rovere</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Head of the The Center for Integrated Studies on Climate Change and the Environment, COPPE/Federal University of Rio de Janeiro – UFRJ and Professor at the Energy and Environmental at the University of Rio de Janeiro, 6/18/</span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">08</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**,** Energy Sources, Part A: Recovery, Utilization, and Environmental Effects, Vol 30, Iss 14-15, pg 1327, “Energy Sources and Global Climate Change: The Brazilian Case” Taylor & Francis Online</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Abstract </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">If the world continues to follow a “business as usual” energy path, current projections of increased energy demand threaten a massive disruption of the global biosphere, as</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">fossil fuels consumption is the primary cause of global warming</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Climate change is a direct threat to sustainable development itself</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">,</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> especially in developing countries that are most vulnerable to its impacts. Within this context, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">the potential role of renewable energ</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">y (RE</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">)</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> is</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> twofold: </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">cutting greenhouse gas</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (GHG) emissions in the industrialized world and expanding energy supply to the world’s poor while curbing the increase of GHG emissions from developing countries. In fact, an adequate supply of RE is an important key to sustainable economic, environmental, and social development for many countries. The country of Brazil is reviewed as a particularly illustrative example of this point, thanks to the large-scale use of hydropower and sugarcane products (ethanol and bagasse) and to a huge RE potential yet to be tapped. </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">We’ll turn any war scenario-climate change will raise the magnitude of all conflicts and initiate the outbreak of others, multiple internal links-storms, drought, resource wars, flooding, disease, economic collapse, border tensions, and U.S. intervention-it’s the consensus of top military experts.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Environmental News Service 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Environmental News Service, “Military Panel: Climate Change Threatens U.S. National Security”, April 16, 2007, http://www.ens-newswire.com/ens/apr2007/2007-04-16-05]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Global </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">climate change presents a serious national security threat that could affect Americans at home, impact U.S. military operations, and heighten global tensions, finds a study released today by a blue-ribbon panel of 11 of the most senior retired U.S. admirals and generals.Climate change, national security and energy dependence are a related set of global challenges that will add to tensions even in stable regions of the world,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> found the panel, known as the Military Advisory Board. "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**We will pay for this one way or another**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," said retired Marine Corps General Anthony Zinni, former commander of U.S. forces in the Middle East. "We will pay to reduce greenhouse gas emissions today, and we'll have to take an economic hit of some kind. Or, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we will pay the price later in military terms. And that will involve human lives. There will be a human toll</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. should commit to a stronger national and international role to help stabilize climate changes at levels that will avoid significant disruption to global security and stability," the Military Advisory Board recommends.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The study, "National Security and the Threat of Climate Change," explores ways in which climate change acts as a "threat multiplier" in already fragile regions of the world, creating the breeding grounds for extremism and terrorism. The </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">CNA Corporation, a nonprofit research and analysis organization, brought together 11 retired four-star and three-star admirals and generals as a Military Advisory Board to provide advice, expertise and perspective on the impact of climate change on national security. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">CNA writers and researchers compiled the report under the board's direction and review. Members of the Military Advisory Board come from all branches of the armed services. The board includes a former Army chief of staff, commanders-in-chiefs of U.S. forces in global regions, a former shuttle astronaut and NASA administrator, and experts in planning, logistics, underwater operations and oceanography. One member also served as U.S. ambassador to China. "</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">We found that climate instability will lead to instability in geopolitics and impact American military operations around the world," said retired General Gordon Sullivan, chairman of the Military Advisory Board and former Army chief of staff, in releasing the report today at a Washington news conference. "People are saying they want to be perfectly convinced about climate science projections," General Sullivan said. "But speaking as a soldier, we never have 100 percent certainty. If you wait until you have 100 percent certainty, something bad is going to happen on the battlefield." Military Advisory Board members said they remain optimistic that climate change challenges can be managed to reduce future risks. As part of its five specific recommendations for action, the Board said "the path to mitigating the worst security consequences of climate change involves reducing global greenhouse gas emissions." The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency today released the national greenhouse gas inventory, which finds that overall emissions during 2005 increased by 0.8 percent from the previous year. Overall emissions have grown by 16 percent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">from 1990 to 2005. Retired Navy Vice Admiral Richard Truly, a shuttle astronaut and former NASA administrator, said, "Unlike the challenges that we are used to dealing with, these will come upon us extremely slowly, but come they will, and they will be grinding and inexorable." Truly also notes that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"maybe more challenging is that climate change will affect every nation, and all simultaneously. This is why we need to study this issue now, so that we'll be prepared and not overwhelmed by the required scope of our response when the time comes."</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Military Advisory Board report recognizes that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**unabated climate change could bring an increased frequency of extreme storms, additional drought and flooding, rising sea levels, melting glaciers and the rapid spread of life-threatening disease.**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These projected effects are usually viewed as environmental challenges, but now the Military Advisory Board has looked at them from the perspective of national security assessments</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. They are serious risk factors for massive migrations, increased border tensions, greater demands for rescue and evacuation efforts, and conflicts over essential resources, including food and water,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the board said, saying </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">such developments could lead to direct U.S. military involvement. "Climate change can provide the conditions that will extend the war on terror,"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> said retired Admiral T. Joseph Lopez, former commander-in-chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe and of Allied Forces, Southern Europe. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"Rising ocean water levels, droughts, violent weather, ruined national economies-those are the kinds of stresses we'll see more of under climate change,"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he said. "In the long term, we want to address the underlying conditions that terrorists seek to exploit," Admiral Lopez said. "But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">climate change will prolong those conditions. It makes them worse.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">" </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Oil spike causes nuclear great power war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McKillop 4, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Founder of International Association of Energy Economists, ‘4 (October 10, “Energy Transition And Final Energy Crisis” Oil and Gas Journal, [[http://www.vheadline.com/readnews.asp?id=23067]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Geopolitical risk: In the mid-term and long-term there is recognized need to cut oil and gas burning to limit climate change. More </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">importantly in the short-term there is an increasingly urgent need to limit and head off oil and gas price explosions able to trigger ‘</span>//great power rivalry’//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that is </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">armed conflict for remaining reserves</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of oil and natural gas </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">between the world’s</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">superpowers, motivated by ‘national economic survival</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.’ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">World regions most exposed to this risk are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> evidently </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Middle East and Central Asia, and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to a lesser extent </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Africa</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We can note that threats of using military invasion, or actual invasion -- of Iraq in 2003 -- did not in any way ‘facilitate and improve’ oil supplies to the large consumer countries and groups of countries.</span>In fact the exact opposite: the US-UK invasion of Iraq has effectively sabotaged or neutralized Iraq’s oil export capacity for many years. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Any</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> international plan and program for </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">energy transition</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, perhaps modeled on or incorporating the Kyoto Treaty, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">must ensure that oil producers are not exposed to military invasion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, nor catastrophic falls in the oil price and their export revenues, when or if they choose to husband or conserve their non-renewable resources, and cap their oil or gas production before reducing it, instead of waiting for resource depletion and exhaustion to do the same job. No “obligation to supply” a depleting, non-renewable resource exists. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The risk of great power rivalry for remaining oil and gas reserves is high</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even the most unconditional believers in “unlimited oil and gas reserves” accept that covering depletion loss, and adding net production capacity takes time and is increasingly costly to develop. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The risk</span>, or threat <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of large nations or groups of nations ‘jumping the queue’ and taking oil and gas production capacity wherever it already exists -- leading inevitably to armed resistance</span>, as in Iraq <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">-- is real.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Certainly </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">since 1973, political deciders in the US have considered that any</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> embargo or ‘</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">unreasonable’ reduction in supplies of oil</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, by exporters, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is hostile to US vital interests</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">opening the way to retortion or revenge by military invasion,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to restore the ‘free flow of reasonable priced oil’ ... as it was called by George Bush-1 at the time of the ‘liberation’ of Kuwait in 1991. A</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ny other large oil-importer nation, or group</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of oil-importer nations </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">with nuclear weapons </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">capability </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">can adopt the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> same ‘oil supply security’ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">doctrine</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
Participation in faster development and construction of non-oil, non-gas renewable energy alternatives to fossil fuels, and especially substitutes for oil, will therefore reduce invasion risks for oil and gas exporter countries. The same effort will also reduce ‘threats to economic security’ of the large oil importer nations and groups of nations.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As noted above, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">current and future oil and gas ‘supply gaps’, causing undersupply to markets, will become structural.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This will raise the risks from failed attempts at obtaining oil reserves or production capacity through military invasion, as in Iraq.</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">These wars go global</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schubert 10 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in electrical engineering Peter J. Schubert, PhD in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University, holds 30 US patents, 8 foreign patents, and has published over 60 technical papers and book chapters, 12-2010, “Costs, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For a miracle to occur </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the US must perceive a real and on-going threat</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Considering the most problematic areas listed above gives guidance on what sort of threats may arise. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Environmental events may be</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> roughly </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">divided into</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> regional disasters lasting days, weeks, or years (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">tsunamis, hurricanes, droughts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">); or decimating </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">global weather shifts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> lasting generations (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">megavolcanic eruptions, ice age, runaway thermal superstorms</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">). Either type threatens SSP. Regional disasters draw down funding coffers to provide immediate relief and possibly rebuilding; while decimations reduce commerce such that long-term, high-cost projects are no longer affordable. The same logic holds true for nuclear events, whether localized (Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Chernobyl), or widespread and generational (global thermonuclear war). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Energy shortages will drive prices until</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic necessity overcomes free market forces, and </span>//wars erupt//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These may</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> be regional, lasting years; or they may </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">escalate </span>//into a third Great War//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> over scarce energy sources.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> None of these options favor SSP.</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And, SBSP breaks our dependence on fossil fuels, ensuring energy security</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Draiman 2008 </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jay, “Mandatory Renewable Energy: The Energy Evolution”, Energy Consultant and Energy Development Specialist with over 20 years experience in energy research, [[http://environment.newscientist.com/channel/earth/energy-fuels/dn12774-pentagon-backs-plan-to-beam-solar-power-from-space.html]]]</span>

"We strive to meet the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs". <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Today’s energy industry is perhaps the worlds most powerful</span>. //Energy is the basis of this entire world wealth,//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and for perhaps earth entire history, </span>//the sun energy//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> has fueled all ecological and economic systems</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If early humans did not learn to exploit new sources of energy, humankind would still be living in the tropical forests. Without the continual exploitation of new energy sources, </span>//there would have been no civilization//, no Industrial Revolution and no looming global catastrophe<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. In order to insure </span>//energy//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>//economic// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">independence </span>//as well as better economic growth//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> without being blackmailed by foreign countries</span>//, our country, the United States of America utilization of energy sources must change//. "//Energy drives our entire economy.// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We must protect it</span>. "Let's face it, //without energy the whole economy and economic society we have set up would come to a halt.// So you want to have control over such an important resource that you need for your society and your economy<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">." The American way of life is not negotiable</span>. //Our continued dependence on fossil fuels could and will lead to catastrophic consequences.//
===Adv. 2 Follow the leader=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The US aerospace industry is in decline – Chinese investment and supply issues threaten leadership</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Douglas 2010</span>**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Donald, American Power, “China Challenges United States for Aerospace Leadership”, http://americanpowerblog.blogspot.com/2010/11/china-challenges-united-states-for.html]</span>
China is aiming to reshape the global aviation industry with a home-grown jetliner, a direct challenge to the supremacy of Boeing and Airbus, the world's only manufacturers of large commercial aircraft. The communist government has staked billions of dollars and national pride on the effort. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">What may surprise some Americans worried about slipping U.S. competitiveness is that some well-known U.S. companies are aiding China in its quest. That partnership will be on display next week at an air show in southern China with the unveiling of a full-scale mockup of the C919. Slated for production by 2016, the 156-seat, single-aisle passenger plane would have its fuselage emblazoned with Comac, short for the state-owned Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China. But inside, the most crucial systems would bear the trademarks of some of the biggest names in Western aviation. Honeywell International Inc. will supply power units, on-board computing systems, wheels and brakes; Rockwell Collins Inc. will handle navigation systems; GE Aviation is building the avionics; Eaton Corp. is involved with fuel and hydraulics; and Parker Aerospace of Irvine is responsible for flight controls. Powering the aircraft will be two fuel-efficient engines built by CFM International, a company co-owned by GE and French conglomerate Safran. Global supply chains are common in the aviation industry: Chicago-based Boeing and Europe's Airbus rely on parts makers and assembly operations around the world. But </span>China<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> isn't content just to buy sophisticated gear for the C919; the government </span>has required foreign suppliers to set up joint ventures with Chinese companies. That has put U.S. and European suppliers in a tough spot: Be willing to hand over advanced technology to Chinese firms that could one day be rivals or miss out on what's likely to be the biggest aviation bonanza of the next half a century. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Honeywell alone has snagged contracts worth more than $11 billion for the project. "You're faced with either being part of it or not," said Billy Lay, a Dubai-based partner at PRTM, an international consulting firm with expertise in aerospace. "I don't know what the alternatives are." Actually, we've dealt with such scenarios before, when Americans were concerned with growing Japanese industrial competitiveness in the late-1980s (see, "Beyond Mutual Recrimination: Building a Solid U.S.-Japan Relationship in the. 1990s," and "Do Relative Gains Matter? America's Response to Japanese Industrial Policy"). Back then, the U.S. response was to place export controls on sensitive industrial sectors, especially in aerospace. I can't imagine in just twenty years that kind of realpolitik in economic policy (neo-mercantilism) has been completely repudiated at the top levels of strategic planning. Perhaps Japan was more brazenly competitive, or China's more stealthy now. </span>Either way, concerns for relative gains contributed to restrictions on sensitive technologies, and limits on private sector exports and cooperation in strategic technologies. Maybe we're complacent. But we're still on top, at least for now. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">See, "Asia and Europe Giving U.S. Science a Run for the Money": </span>The United States still leads the world with its scientific clout, armed with highly respected universities and a big war chest of funding, but Europe and Asia are catching up<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, according to a Thomson Reuters report released on Friday. </span>The U.S. emphasis on biological and medical sciences leaves the fields of physical sciences and engineering open to the competition,<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the report finds. "</span>The United States is no longer the Colossus of Science, dominating the research landscape in its production of scientific papers, that it was 30 years ago<span style="font-size: 7pt;">," the report reads. "It now shares this realm, on an increasingly equal basis, with the EU27 (the 27 European Union members) and Asia-Pacific," adds the report, available at http://researchanalytics.thomsonreuters.com/grr/. I'll be back to this topic soon. President Obama was just in the news last week with the statement that America's best days were behind us: "Obama Acknowledges Decline of U.S. Dominance." The president is post-American anyway, but the matter's worth paying attention to. As noted, I'm mostly with Joseph Nye above. But </span>extreme levels of deficit and debt, and now with new signs of threatening international economic competition, look to be putting tremendous pressure on the continuation of American world leadership.


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">SPS would jumpstart the US Aerospace industry without requiring any tech breakthroughs</span>
**NSSO 2007**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study”, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">FINDING: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP directly addresses the concerns of the Presidential Aerospace Commission which called on the US to become a true spacefaring civilization and to pay closer attention to our aerospace technical and industrial base,</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> our “national jewel” which has enhanced our security, wealth, travel, and lifestyle. An SBSP program as outlined in this report is remarkably consonant with the findings of this commission, which stated</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: The United States must maintain its preeminence in aerospace research and innovation to be the global aerospace leader in the 21st century</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This can only be achievedthrough</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> proactive government policies and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sustained public investments in long‐term research and RDT&E infrastructure that will result in new breakthrough aerospace capabilities.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Over the last several decades, the U.S. aerospace sector has been living off the research investments made primarily for defense during the Cold War…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Government policies and investments in long‐term research have not kept pace with the changing world.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Our nation does not have bold national aerospace technology goals to focus and sustain federal research and related infrastructure investments. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The nation needs to capitalize on these opportunities, and the federal government needs to lead the effort. Specifically, it needs to invest in long‐term enabling research and related RDT&E infrastructure, establish national aerospace technology demonstration goals, and create an environment that fosters innovation and provide the incentives necessary to encourage risk taking and rapid introduction of new products and services</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The Aerospace Commission recognized that Global U.S. aerospace leadership can only be achieved through investments in our future, including our industrial base, workforce, long term research and national infrastructure, and that government must commit to increased and sustained investment and must facilitate private investment in our national aerospace sector. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Commission concluded that the nation will have to be a space‐faring nation in order to be the global leader in the 21st century</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">—that our freedom, mobility, and quality of life will depend on it, and therefore, recommended that the United States boldly pioneer new frontiers in aerospace technology, commerce and exploration. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">They explicitly recommended that the United States create a space imperative and that NASA and DoD need to make the investments necessary for developing and supporting future launch capabilities to revitalize U.S. space launch infrastructure, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">as well as provide Incentives to Commercial Space. The report called on government and the investment community must become more sensitive to commercial opportunities and problems in space. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Recognizing the new realities of a highly dynamic, competitive and global marketplace, the report noted that the federal government is dysfunctional when addressing 21st century issues from a long term, national and global perspective</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">suggested an increase in public funding for long term research and supporting infrastructure and an acceleration of transition of government research to the aerospace sector, recognizing that government must assist industry by providing insight into its long</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 7pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">term research programs, and industry needs to provide to government on its research priorities. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It urged the federal government must remove unnecessary barriers to international sales of defense products, and implement other initiatives that strengthen transnational partnerships to enhance national security, noting that U.S. national security and procurement policies represent some of the most burdensome restrictions affecting U.S. industry competitiveness</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Private-public partnerships were also to be encouraged</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It also noted that without constant vigilance and investment, vital capabilities in our defense industrial base will be lost, and so recommended a fenced amount of research and development budget, and significantly increase in the investment in basic aerospace research to increase opportunities to gain experience in the workforce by enabling breakthrough aerospace capabilities through continuous development of new experimental systems with or without a requirement for production. Such experimentation was deemed to be essential to sustain the critical skills to conceive, develop, manufacture and maintain advanced systems and potentially provide expanded capability to the warfighter. A top </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">priority was increased investment in basic aerospace research which fosters an efficient, secure, and safe aerospace transportation system, and suggested the establishment of national technology demonstration goals, which included reducing the cost and time to space by 50%</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It concluded that, “America must exploit and explore space to assure national and planetary security, economic benefit and scientific discovery. At the same time, the United States must overcome the obstacles that jeopardize its ability to sustain leadership in space</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.” An SBSP program would be a powerful expression of this imperative. </span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Aerospace competiveness is the vital internal link to U.S. global hegemony</span>
**Walker et al 2002**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Robert, Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Defending our nation against its enemies is the first and fundamental commitment of the federal govern-ment.2 This translates into two broad missions—Defend America and Project Power—when and where needed. </span>In order to defend America and project power, the nation needs the ability to move<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> manpower, </span>materiel, intelligence information and precision weaponry swiftly to any point around the globe, when needed<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This has been, and will continue to be, a mainstay of our national security strategy. The events of September 11, 2001 dramatically demonstrated the extent of our national reliance on aerospace capabilities and related military contributions to homeland security. Combat air patrols swept the skies; satellites supported real-time communications for emergency responders, imagery for recovery, and intelligence on terrorist activities; and the security and protection of key government officials was enabled by timely air transport. As recent events in</span> Afghanistan and Kosovo show, the power generated by our nation’s aerospace capabilities is<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> an—and perhaps </span>the—essential ingredient in force projection and expeditionary operations<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In both places, at the outset of the crisis, </span>satellites and reconnaissance aircraft<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, some unmanned, </span>provided critical strategic andtactical intelligence to our national leadership. Space-borne intelligence, command, control and communications assets permitted the rapid targeting of key enemy positions and facilities. Airlifters and tankers brought personnel, materiel, and aircraft to critical locations<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. And aerial bombardment, with precision weapons and cruise missiles, often aided by the Global Positioning System (GPS) and the Predator unmanned vehicle, destroyed enemy forces. Aircraft carriers and their aircraft also played key roles in both conflicts. </span>Today’s military aerospace capabilities are<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> indeed </span>robust, but at significant risk<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>They rely on platforms and an industrial base—measured in both human capital and physical facilities—that are aging and increasingly inadequate<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Consider just a few of the issues: • </span>Much of our capability to defend America and project power depends on satellites<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>Assured reliable access to space is a critical enabler of this capability.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> As recently as 1998, </span>the key to near- and mid-term space access was the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(EELV), a development project of Boeing, Lockheed Martin and the U. S. Air Force. EELV drew primarily on commercial demand to close the business case for two new </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Launchers, with the U.S. government essentially buying launches at the margin. In this model, each company partner made significant investments of corporate funds in vehicle development and infrastructure, reducing the overall need for government investment. </span>Today, however, worldwide demand for commercial satellite launch has dropped essentially to nothing—and is not expected to rise for a decade or more—while the number of available launch platforms worldwide has proliferated<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Today, therefore, </span>the business case for EELV simply does not close, and reliance on the economics of a commercially-driven market is unsustainable<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>A new strategy for assured access to space must be found<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. • </span>The U.S. needs unrestricted access to space for civil, commercial, and military applications<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Our satellite systems will become increasingly important to military operations as today’s information revolution, the so-called “revolution in military affairs,” continues, while at the same time satellites will become increasingly vulnerable to attack as the century proceeds. </span>To preserve critical satellite net-works, the nation will almost certainly need the capability to launch replacement satellites quickly after an attack<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. One of the key enablers for “launch on demand” is reusable space launch, and yet within the last year all work has been stopped on the X-33 and X-34 reusable launch programs • </span>The challenge for the defense industrial base is to have the capability to build the base force structure, support contingency-related surges, provide production capacity that can increase faster than any new emerging global threat can build up its capacity<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and provide an “appropriate” return to shareholders. But the motivation of government and industry are different. This is a prime detraction for wanting to form government-industry partnerships. Industry prioritizes investments toward near-term, high-return, and high-dollar programs that make for a sound business case for them. Government, on the other hand, wants to prioritize investment to ensure a continuing capability to meet any new threat to the nation. This need is cyclical and difficult for businesses to sustain during periods of government inactivity. Based on the cyclic nature of demand, the increasing cost/complexity of new systems, and the slow pace of defense modernization, aerospace companies are losing market advantages and the sector is contracting. Twenty-two years ago, today’s “Big 5” in aerospace were 75 separate companies, as depicted by the historical chart of industry consolidation shown in Chapter 7. • Tactical combat aircraft have been a key component of America’s air forces. Today, three tactical aircraft programs continue: the F/A-18E/F (in production), the F/A-22 (in a late stage of test and evaluation), and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (just moving into system design and development). Because of the recentness of these programs, there are robust design teams in existence. But all of the initial design work on all three programs will be completed by 2008. If the nation were to conclude, as it very well may, that a new manned tactical aircraft needs to be fielded in the middle of this century, where will we find the experienced design teams required to design and build it, if the design process is in fact gapped for 20 years or more? • More than half of the aerospace workforce is over the age of 404, and the average age of aerospace defense workers is over 50.5Inside the Department of Defense (DoD), a large percent of all scientists and engineers will be retirement eligible by 2005. Given these demographics, there will be an exodus of “corporate knowledge” in the next decade that will be difficult and costly to rebuild once it is lost. There will be a critical need for new engineers, but little new work to mature their practical skill over the next several decades. Further, enrollment in aerospace engineering programs has dropped by 47 percent in the past nine years6, and the interest and national skills in mathematics and science are down. Defense spending on cutting-edge work is at best stable, and commercial aircraft programs are struggling and laying workers off. As the DoD’s recent Space Research and Development (R&D) Industrial Base Study7 concluded, “[s]ustaining a talented workforce of sufficient size and experience remains a long-term issue and is likely to get worse.” In short, the nation needs a plan to attract, train and maintain a skilled, world-class aerospace workforce, but none currently exists. • The current U.S. research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) infrastructure has a legacy dating back to either World War II or the expansion during the Space Age in the 1960s. It is now suffering significantly from a lack of resources required for modernization. In some cases, our nation’s capabilities have atrophied and we have lost the lead, as with our outdated wind tunnels, where European facilities are now more modern and efficient. In the current climate, there is inadequate funding to modernize aging government infrastructure or build facilities that would support the development of new transformational capabilities, such as wind tunnels needed to design and test new hypersonic vehicles. The aerospace indus-try must have access to appropriate, modern facilities to develop, test and evaluate new systems. Throughout this dynamic and challenging environment, </span>one message remains clear: a healthy U.S. aerospace industry is more than a hedge against an uncertain future. It is one of the primary national instruments through which DoD will develop and obtain the superior technologies and capabilities essential to the on-going transformation of the armed forces, thus maintaining our position as the world’s preeminent military power<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Declining aerospace leadership directly facilitates the emergence of hostile global rivals</span>
**Snead 2007**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Mike, Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development, “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, 6/3, [[http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx]]]</span>

Great power status is achieved through competition between nations. This competition is often based on advancing science and technology and applying these advancements to enabling new operational capabilities<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>A great power that succeeds in this competition adds to its power while a great power that does not compete or does so ineffectively<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or by choice, </span>becomes comparatively less powerful<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Eventually, it loses the great power status and then must align itself with another great power for protection. </span>As the pace of science and technology advancement has increased, so has the potential for the pace of change of great power status<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. While the U.S. "invented" powered flight in 1903, a decade later leadership in this area had shifted to Europe. Within a little more than a decade after the Wright Brothers' first flights, the great powers of Europe were introducing aeronautics into major land warfare through the creation of air forces. When the U.S. entered the war in 1917, it was forced to rely on French-built aircraft. Twenty years later, as the European great powers were on the verge of beginning another major European war, the U.S. found itself in a similar situation where its choice to diminish national investment in aeronautics during the 1920's and 1930's—you may recall that this was the era of General Billy Mitchell and his famous efforts to promote military air power—placed U.S. air forces at a significant disadvantage compared to those of Germany and Japan. This was crucial because military air power was quickly emerging as the "game changer" for conventional warfare. Land and sea forces increasingly needed capable air forces to survive and generally needed air superiority to prevail. </span>With the great power advantages of becoming spacefaring expected to be comparable to those derived from becoming air-faring in the 1920's and 1930's, a delay by the U.S. in enhancing its great power strengths through expanded national space power may result in a reoccurrence of the rapid emergence of new or the rapid growth of current great powers to the point that they are capable of effectively challenging the U.S. Many great powers—China, India, and Russia—are already speaking of plans for developing spacefaring capabilities.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Yet, today, </span>the U.S. retains a commanding aerospace technological lead over these nations. A strong effort by the U.S. to become a true spacefaring nation<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, starting in 2009 with the new presidential administration, </span>may yield a generation or longer lead in space<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, not just through prudent increases in military strength but also through the other areas of great power competition discussed above. This is an advantage that the next presidential administration should exercise.</span>



<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Nuclear war</span>
**Kagan 2007**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Robert-, Sr. Assoc. @ the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Sr. Transatlantic Fellow @ the German Marshall Fund, Real Clear Politics, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]]]</span>

The current order<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, of course, </span>is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world 's great powers<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>War could erupt between China and Taiwan <span style="font-size: 7pt;">and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between </span>Russia and Georgia, forcing <span style="font-size: 7pt;">the United States and its European allies to decide whether to interven</span>e<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. </span>Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>These,<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> too, </span>could draw in other great powers, including the United States<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>Such conflicts<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they </span>are more likely to erupt if the U<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span> That is certainly the view of most of China 's neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the U<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>as the dominant power<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in the region, </span>faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">nationalist Japan. </span>In Europe<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, too, </span>the departure of the U<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates from the scene -- </span>even if it remained the world's most powerful nation -- could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and potentially forceful </span>approach to unruly nations<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, </span>history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe -- if it adopted<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> what some call a strategy of </span>"offshore balancing" -- this could<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in time </span>increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and its near neighbors, </span>which could in turn draw the U<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited States </span>back in<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> under unfavorable circumstances. </span>It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the assumption of </span>a<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> more passive, </span>"offshore" role would lead to greater stability there<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>The vital interest the U<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or would </span>stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>Nor would a more "even-handed" policy toward Israel<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, </span>obviate the need to come to Israel 's aid if its security became threatened<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, both on the seas and on the ground. </span>The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> both inside and outside the region </span>has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> doesn 't change this. </span>It only adds a<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> new and </span>more threatening dimension<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to the competition, </span>which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 18 And </span>one could also expect<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the more powerful states of the region, particularly </span>Iran, to<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> expand and </span>fill the vacuum<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn 't changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to "normal" or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again. </span>The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> into the future, </span>no one should imagine that a<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> reduction of American power or </span>a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**Timeframe arguments are irrelevant – we just need the goal to restore aerospace leadership**
**Nansen 1995**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Ralph, President Solar Space Industries, “Sun Power,” [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower01.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">First of all, </span>if we were to commit to its development it would give us national purpose.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> We would no longer be wondering what to do the next time we run short of oil or a megalomaniac threatens to take control of a major oil-producing nation. We would be concentrating on a single common goal—not a generalized wish for energy independence, but a specific solution. </span>It would be a greater task than going to the moon in the 1960s, but it would focus the nation’s talents, its energies, and its imagination in much the same way as did that lofty accomplishment<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. It would challenge our young people to take their place in history building a future for themselves and their children. They would become known as a generation of visionaries who stood at the crossroads of history and chose the pathway of growth rather than stagnation</span>. It would utilize the talents of scientists, engineers, and companies who have been working on military hardware<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which is no longer a number one priority with the ending of the cold war. </span>It would develop a new high-level technological base, which is so important to a highly developed nation like the United States in order to maintain our competitive place in the world economy. It would create a massive number of jobs that would bring growth to our economy.

===Plan Text:=== 
**The United States Federal Government should deploy a space based solar power array.**
===Observation 3 is <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">SBSP prevents wars, ensures energy security, allows for easer access to space, stops proliferation, eliminates the dependency on fossil fuels and protects the environment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">NSS 07</span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(National Space Society Report to the National Security Space Office)(</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 4pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">October 10, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that the </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBSP development would have a </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">transformational, even </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">revolutionary, effect on space access for the nation</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(s) t</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">hat develop(s) it</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. SBSP cannot be constructed without safe, frequent (daily/weekly), cheap, and reliable access to space and ubiquitous in</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">space operations. The sheer volume and number of flights into space, and the efficiencies reached by those high volumes is game</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">changing. By lowering the cost to orbit so substantially, and by providing safe and routine access, entirely new industries and possibilities open up. SBSP and low</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">cost, reliable space access are co</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">dependent, and advances in either will catalyze development in the other. FINDING: </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The SBSP Study Group found that by providing access to an inexhaustible </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">strategic </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">reservoir of renewable energy, SBSP offers an</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> attractive </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">route to i</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">ncreased</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> energy security and assurance</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The reservoir of Space Based Solar Power is </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">almost </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">unimaginably vast, with room for growth </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">f</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ar past the</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> foreseeable </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">needs of</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the entire</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> human civilization for the next century and beyond.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the vicinity of Earth, each and every hour there are 1.366 gigawatts of solar energy continuously pouring through every square kilometer of space. If one were to stretch that around the circumference of geostationary orbit, that 1 km</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">wide ring receives over 210 terawatt</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">years of power annually. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The amount of energy coursing throug</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">h that </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">one thin band of space in</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> just </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">one year is</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> roughly </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">equivalent to the energy contained in ALL known</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> recoverable</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> oil reserves on Earth</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (approximately 250 terawatt years), and far exceeds the projected 30TW of annual demand in mid century. The energy output of the fusion</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">powered Sun is billions of times beyond that, and it will last for billions of years—orders of magnitude beyond all other known sources combined. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Space</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Based Solar Power taps directly into the largest known energy resource in the solar system.</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> This is not to minimize the difficulties and practicalities of economically developing and utilizing this resource or the tremendous time and effort it would take to do so. Nevertheless, it is important to realize that there is a tremendous reservoir of energy—clean, renewable energy—available to the human civilization if it can develop the means to effectively capture it. FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that in the long run, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBSP offers a viable</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and attractive </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">route to decrease mankind’s reliance on fossil fuels, as well as</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> provides </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">a </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">potential </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">global alternative to </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">wider </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">proliferation of nuclear materials </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that will almost certainly unfold if many more countries in the world transition to nuclear power with enrichment in an effort to meet their energy needs with carbon neutral sources. To the extent mankind’s electricity is produced by fossil fuel sources, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBSP offers a capability</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> over time </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">to reduce the rate at which humanity consumes the planet’s </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">finite </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">fossil hydrocarbon resources. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> While presently hard to store, electricity is easy to transport, and is highly efficient in conversion to both mechanical and thermal energy. Except for the aviation transportation infrastructure, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">virtually all of America’s energy could eventually be delivered and consumed as electricity.</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Even in ground transportation, a movement toward plug</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">in hybrids would allow a substantial amount of traditional ground transportation to be powered by SBSP electricity. For those applications that favor or rely upon liquid hydrocarbon fuels, America’s national labs are pursuing several promising avenues of research to manufacture carbon</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">neutral synthetic fuels (synfuels) from direct solar thermal energy or radiated/electrical SBSP. The lab initiatives are developing technologies to efficiently split energy</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">neutral feedstocks or upgrade lower</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> grade fuels (such as biofuels) into higher energy density liquid hydrocarbons. Put plainly, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBSP could be utilized to</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> split hydrogen from water and the carbon monoxide (syngas) from carbon dioxide which can then be combined to </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">manufacture any desired hydrocarbon fuel, including gasoline, diesel, kerosene and jet fuel. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> This technology is still in its infancy, and significant investment will be required to bring this technology to a high level of technical readiness and meet economic and efficiency goals. This technology enables a carbon</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">neutral (closed carbon</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">cycle) hydrocarbon economy driven by clean renewable sources of power, which can utilize the existing global fuel infrastructure without modification. This opportunity is of particular interest to traditional oil companies. The ability to use renewable energy to serve as the energy feedstock for existing fuels, in a carbon neutral cycle, is a “total game changer” that deserves significant attention.- 13 - Both fossil and fissile sources offer significant capabilities to our energy mix, but dependence on the exact mix must be carefully managed. Likewise, the mix abroad may affect domestic security. While increased </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">use of nuclear powe</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">r is not of particular concern in nations that enjoy the rule of law and have functioning internal security mechanisms, it </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">may be of</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> greater </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">concern in unstable areas of rouge states. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The United States might consider the security challenges of wide proliferation of enrichment</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">based nuclear power abroad undesirable. If so,</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> having a viable alternativ</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">e that fills a comparable niche </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">might be attractive</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Overall, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBSP offers </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">a hopefu</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">l path toward reduced fossil and fissile fuel dependence. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> SBSP offers a long</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">term route to alleviate the security challenges of energy scarcity, and a </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">hopeful </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">path to avert possible wars and conflicts. If traditional fossil fuel production</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> peaks sometime this century </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">as the Department of Energy’s own Energy Information Agency has predicted, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">a first order effect would be some type of energy scarcity. If alternatives do not come on</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">line fast enough</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, then </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">prices and resource tensions will increase with a negative effect on the global economy, possibly even pricing some nations out of the competition</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> for minimum requirements. T</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">his could increase the potential forfailed states</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, particularly among the less developed and poor nations. It could also increase the chances for great power conflict. To the extent SBSP is successful in tapping an energy source with tremendous growth potential, it offers an “alternative in the third dimension” to lessen the chance of such conflicts. FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that to the extent the United States decides it wishes to limit its carbon emissions, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBSP offers a potential path for long</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">term carbon mitigation. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This study does not take a position on anthropogenic climate change, which at this time still provoked significant debate among participants, but there is undeniable interest in options that limit carbon emission. Studies by Asakura et al in 2000 suggest that </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBSP lifetime carbon emissions </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(chiefly in construction)</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> are </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">even </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">more attractive than nuclear powe</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">r, and that </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">for the same amount of carbon emission, one could </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">i</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">nstall 60 times the generating capacity,</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> or alternately, one could replace existing generating capacity </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">with 1/60th the lifetime carbon emission of a coal</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">fired plant</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> without CO2 sequestration </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">SBSP will create millions of jobs, solve energy wars, and provide the spark for an explosion of tech spinoffs</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Medin Winter 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kristin Chief Industrial Designer, NewSpace DesignLabs “Disruptive Technology: A Space-Based Solar Power Industry Forecast” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/medin.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites.) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Now, multiple nations are exploring the prospects for launching a new breed of satellites designed to harvest solar power in space,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> transmitting it from geosynchronous orbit to terrestrial receivers. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If these plans turn out, </span>//solar power satellites will radically change the ways we harness and distribute energy.//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Solar power from space is far more efficient than terrestrial capture due to the filtering effects of our atmosphere and the day and night cycles experienced everywhere on earth. </span>//Solar power is thought to be our most likely candidate for a clean-base, renewable and dependable source for energ//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">y.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> According to Dr. Feng Hsu, Technical Lead and Manager over Integrated Risk Management at NASA, Goddard</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, roughly 350,000,000 terawatt hours of energy falls towards earth per year.[5] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">SMSP has obvious selling points, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">but this development presents advantages of a higher order. That is, the implementation of solar power satellites has the prospect of enabling development of other technologies, which </span>//can send waves of creative innovation throughout global society//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Is it hard to imagine its implications for international peace keeping? </span>//Wars are fought over access to energy. Sun's energy is abundant and free,// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if we can learn how to tap it. </span>//Is it hard to imagine that capturing and delivering sun's energy to global users is a global business,//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>//that thousands of careers and millions of jobs will be created in the process of bringing it to reality//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">?</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And, yes, we have the tech.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rogue 07, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of National Security Space Office 2007 (Joseph D. Rogue National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security Report to the Director</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">SBSP Study Group found that Space</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Based Solar Power is a complex engineering challenge, but requires no fundamental scientific breakthroughs or new physics to become a reality. Space</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Based Solar Power</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;">is a complicated engineering project with substantial challenges and a complex trade</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic'; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">space not unlike construction of a large modern aircraft, skyscraper, or hydroelectric dam, but</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;">does not appear to present any fundamental physical barriers or require scientific discoveries to work</span>. While the study group believes the case for <span style="font-size: 11pt;">technical feasibility is very strong, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 11pt;">this does not automatically imply economic viability and affordability—this requires even more stringent technical requirements</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">USFG is key for the plan and spillover</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogue 07</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of National Security Space Office 2007</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph D. Rogue National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security Report to the Director</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The SBSP Study Group concluded that spacebased solar power does present a strategic opportunity that could significantly advance US and partner security, capability, and freedom of action and merits significant further attention on the part of both the US Government and the private sector.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The SBSP Study Group concluded that </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">while significant technical challenges remain, Space</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic';">‐</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Based Solar Power is more technically executable than ever before and current technological vectors promise to further improve its viability. A government</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic';">‐</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">led proof</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic';">‐</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">of</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic';">‐</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">concept demonstration could serve to catalyze commercial sector development. The SBSP Study Group concluded that SBSP requires a coordinated national program with high</span><span style="font-family: 'Adobe Caslon Pro SmBd Italic';">‐</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">level leadership and resourcing commensurate with its promise, but at least on the level of fusion energy research or International Space Station construction and operations</span>

= = 
==SPS 1AC (Kritikal)== 
===Inherency=== 

**Solar power satellite technology is available now, but the United States is not pursuing it**
**Cox 11** [3-23-2011William John, Consortium News, “The Race for Solar Energy from Space,” [[http://www.consortiumnews.com/Print/2011/032311b.html]]
Presently, only the top industrialized nations have the technological, industrial and economic power to compete in the race for space solar energy. In spite of, and perhaps because of, the current disaster, Japan occupies the inside track, as it is the only nation that has a dedicated space solar energy program and which is highly motivated to change directions. China, which has launched astronauts into an earth orbit and is rapidly become the world’s leader in the production of wind and solar generation products, will undoubtedly become a strong competitor. However, the United States, which should have every advantage in the race, is most likely to stumble out of the gate and waste the best chance it has to solve its economic, energy, political and military problems. **A Miraculous Source of Abundant Energy** Space-solar energy is the greatest source of untapped energy which could, potentially, completely solve the world’s energy and greenhouse gas emission problems. The technology currently exists to launch solar-collector satellites into geostationary orbits around the Earth to convert the Sun’s radiant energy into electricity 24 hours a day and to safely transmit the electricity by microwave beams to rectifying antennas on Earth. Following its proposal by Dr. Peter Glaser in 1968, the concept of solar power satellites was extensively studied by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). By 1981, the organizations determined that the idea was a high-risk venture; however, they recommended further study. With increases in electricity demand and costs, NASA took a "fresh look" at the concept between 1995 and 1997. The NASA study envisioned a trillion-dollar project to place several dozen solar-power satellites in geostationary orbits by 2050, sending between two gigawatts and five gigawatts of power to Earth. The NASA effort successfully demonstrated the ability to transmit electrical energy by microwaves through the atmosphere; however, the study’s leader, John Mankins, now says the program "has fallen through the cracks because no organization is responsible for both space programs and energy security." The project may have remained shelved except for the military’s need for sources of energy in its campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan, where the cost of gasoline and diesel exceeds $400 a gallon. A report by the Department of Defense’s National Security Space Office in 2007 recommended that the U.S. "begin a coordinated national program" to develop space-based solar power. There are three basic engineering problems presented in the deployment of a space-based solar power system: the size, weight and capacity of solar collectors to absorb energy; the ability of robots to assemble solar collectors in outer space; and the cost and reliability of lifting collectors and robots into space. Two of these problems have been substantially solved since space-solar power was originally proposed. New thin-film advances in the design of solar collectors have steadily improved, allowing for increases in the efficiency of energy conversion and decreases in size and weight. At the same time, industrial robots have been greatly improved and are now used extensively in heavy manufacturing to perform complex tasks. The remaining problem is the expense of lifting equipment and materials into space. The last few flights of the space shuttle this year will cost $20,000 per kilogram of payload to move satellites into orbit and resupply the space station. It has been estimated that economic viability of space solar energy would require a reduction in the payload cost to less than $200 per kilogram and the total expense, including delivery and assembly in orbit, to less than $3,500 per kilogram. Although there are substantial costs associated with the development of space-solar power, it makes far more sense to invest precious public resources in the development of an efficient and reliable power supply for the future, rather than to waste U.S. tax dollars on an ineffective missile defense system, an ego trip to Mars, or $36 billion in risky loan guarantees by the DOE to the nuclear power industry. With funding for the space shuttle ending next year and for the space station in 2017, the United States must decide upon a realistic policy for space exploration, or else it will be left on the ground by other nations, which are rapidly developing futuristic space projects. China is currently investing $35 billion of its hard-currency reserves in the development of energy-efficient green technology, and has become the world’s leading producer of solar panels. In addition, China has aggressively moved into space by orbiting astronauts and by demonstrating a capability to destroy the satellites of other nations. Over the past two years, Japan has committed $21 billion to secure space-solar energy. By 2030, the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency plans to "put into geostationary orbit a solar-power generator that will transmit one gigawatt of energy to Earth, equivalent to the output of a large nuclear power plant." Japanese officials estimate that, ultimately, they will be able to deliver electricity at a cost of $0.09 per kilowatt-hour, which will be competitive with all other sources.
===<span class="Cite">Plantext</span>=== 

**Thus, Brock and I advocate: The United States federal government should** **deploy a space based solar power array.**

===<span class="Cite">Advantage One </span>is Me, You and I=== 

**Status quo imaginations of the natural world rely on ideologies of domination and control that fail us ontologically and create a false dichotomy that allows for the destruction of everything in the universe – this is ultimately the question of how we orient ourselves to the saving graces of humanity.**
**Trenell, 2006** Paul, September, Department of International Politics, University of Wales, “The (Im)possibility of ‘Environmental Security’”

It is a relatively recent realisation that human activity over the past two centuries has taken a detrimental toll on the natural environment. The first tentative contentions that the economic modes of production and consumption established by the industrial revolution were exerting a negative impact on the ecosystems which sustain human life were made in the mid twentieth century (Revelle & Suess, 1957). Since then it has become widely acknowledged that human activity is altering the planet’s climatic make-up. As the science behind environmental degradation grows ever more certain, the security impacts of these developments are constantly unfolding. Among the ways in which environmental degradation poses direct risks to continued human survival are starvation stemming from reduced crop productivity, disease stemming from increasingly conducive conditions for air and vector borne diseases, and good old fashioned physical destruction stemming from sea level rises and increased storm frequency and intensity4. Given that “nature is the precondition for everything else” (Dobson, 2006: 175), its ongoing destruction is an extremely disconcerting process, and one that takes on an even more alarming character when it is noted that “the developing world is only just undergoing its industrial revolution” (Brown: 1995: 7). Before tracing the response to the emergence of environmental hazards it is necessary to say a word about the causes of environmental degradation. By this I refer not to the scientific explanations of the process, but the deeply rooted societal and philosophical developments that have allowed the process to continue. As Simon Dalby has detailed, environmental threats “are the result of the kind of society that **the current global political economy produces**. Industrial activity, agricultural monocultures, and rampant individual consumption of “disposable items” (all of which are efforts to enhance some forms of human welfare through domination and control of facets of nature) produce other forms of insecurity” (1992a: 113). A large hand in the development of contemporary environmental problems must be attributed to the enlightenment faith in human ability to know and conquer all. In the quest for superiority and security, an erroneous division between humanity and nature emerged whereby the natural world came to be seen as something to be tamed and conquered rather than something to be respected (Adorno & Horkheimer, 1973). Over time, this false dichotomy has become accepted as given, and as a result humankind has lost sight of its own dependence on nature. It is this separation which allows the continued abuse of planetary resources with such disregard for the long-term implications. What is at stake in how we respond to environmental insecurity is the healing of this rift and, in turn, the preservation of human life into the future. Any suggested solutions to environmental vulnerability must account for these concerns and provide a sound basis for redressing the imbalance in the humanity-nature relationship.

**The question of our relation between people and the natural world is the key factor separating shallow ecological views of the world with our affirmation of the deeper sections of ecology – the impact is an orgy of private gratification**
**Zimmerman, 1997** Michael E., Contesting Earth’s Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity, pg. 20-21
Naess describes deep ecology as “deep” in part to contrast it with “shallow” environmentalism, which seeks only to reform certain socioeconomic practices (e.g., curtailing industrial pollution) without altering modernity’s anthropocentric attitude, which is held to be largely responsible for the growing ecological crisis. The more important reason for calling deep ecology “deep”, then, is that it poses deeper questions about the normative and descriptive premised of modernity. Is the way of life made possible by the norms of anthropocentric modernity truly satisfying? Can one’s own well-being be purchased at the expense of that of another, whether that “other” be human or nonhuman? In seeking answers to such questions, Naess believes, people will discover that the **norms of technological modernity** not only **promote biosphere catastrophe**, but are also inconsistent with the ultimate norms of many spiritual and philosophical traditions. In light of this discovery, people will call for major changes, both person and socioeconomic, regarding how humans treat each other and the natural world. Although at the level of ultimate norms many religious and philosophical traditions may be incompatible with one another, few have an ultimate norm compatible with the view that people should devoir the planet in an orgy of private gratification.

**This framework is key to every other impact – Saving the earth comes before saving the economy. Multiple reasons, putting the economy before the earth kills value to life, outweighs their impacts, also warming turns the economy, without a healthy earth the economy will collapse.**
**Abelsohn and O’Hara 11’** (Ethical Response to Climate Change, Dennis Patrick O’Hara, director of the Elliott Allen Institute for Theology and Ecology at St. Michael’s, Alan Abelsohn, assistant professor in the Department of Family and Community Medicine, and the Dalla Lana School of Public Health and lecturer in the Centre for Environment, at the University of Toronto,
Ethics and the Environment, Vol. 16, No. 1, Spring 2011, [[http://www.jstor.org/pss/10.2979/ethicsenviro.16.1.25]])phol
Firstly**, during this stage of inaction or delayed action, basic human rights to life, health and security are being significantly compromised.** As has been noted by the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, nations do not have an option to protect these rights, but are compelled to act to protect them (United Nations Office of the High Com- missioner for Human Rights 2008). **Inaction or inertia is unacceptable, especially since the effects of climate change is “estimated to have caused 150,000 deaths and 5.5 million DALYs [disability adjusted life years],” annually, since 2000** (World Health Organization 2003).Secondly**, the cost to polluters should not determine if or to what extend polluters must take remedial action**. That is, the requirement to act is not dependent on the ability or desire of polluters to bear the economic costs associated with their harmful acts, but is determined by victims’ rights to life, health and security (United Nations 1948, Article 3). **Using “willingness-to-pay” as a criteria or determinant for action devalues the lives, health and security of those who have unwillingly been placed at risk by climate change. Admittedly, economic cost can be utilized to deter- mine the most cost effective response but it cannot be used to determine if one is obligated to respond at all** (Brown et al. 2006, 31). Thirdly, **the argument that one should delay responding to climate change until such time as it will not harm a nation’s economy reverses two concepts**. **A society constructs economic structures to promote the flourishing of humans. That is, economics is a means while human flour- ishing is an end. The “economic harm” argument for delaying responses to climate change reverses this order since tolerance for continued human suffering becomes the means to achieve the goal of economic prosperity**. But no country or company has the right to use other nations or people as a means for achieving economic goals, nor may they endanger the life of others for that same end (Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Com- mission 2008, 14). Furthermore, **prioritizing economic prosperity over human flourishing also favors the human economy over Earth’s economy. But since humans are derivative for Earth’s evolutionary processes and remain inextricably dependent on them, and since human economic ac- tivity is derivative from and dependent upon Earth’s economy, it is not possible to have a flourishing human economy on a devastated planet** any more than it is possible to have healthy people on a sick planet. Earth’s economy is primary while humanity’s economy is derivative, not the re- verse (Berry 2009). Fourthly, as the Stern Report has noted, “the evidence shows that **ignoring climate change will eventually damage economic growth**....Tack- ling climate change is the pro-growth strategy for the longer term, and it can be done in a way that does not cap the aspirations for growth of rich or poor countries. The earlier effective action is taken, the less costly it will be” (Stern 2006, ii). Delaying action to reduce GHG emissions will actually be more costly to economies in developed countries both in the near and long term. **The “economic harm” argument is a misguided and ill-informed prioritization of current investors’ interests at the expense of the welfare of future generations.** Ironically, when President H.W. Bush addressed the Rio Earth Summit on June 15, 1992, he noted that, “**It’s been said that we don’t inherit the earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children**” (Bush 1992). Regrettably, this insight did not inform his response to climate change.

**The affirmative is a key starting point---Rethinking renewable energy would change everything about the way we think economically and politically about the world.**
**Scheer 06’** (Hermann Scheer is a Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, The post-fossil future, Le Monde diplomatique, June 2006, http://www.hermannscheer.de/en/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=133&Itemid=11)phol

This opportunity for a post-fossil and post-nuclear future is not perceived as such, indeed **the existence of this opportunity is still denied.** **This can be explained by a blinkered view of energy**: isolated cost comparisons are carried out, instead of energy systems as a whole being compared. The outdated energy system, with its company structure, is seen as set in stone. And the assumption is made that it is technocratically neutral vis-à-vis other energy sources and ready and able to switch to a different source of energy at any point in time. Yet **this is an unrealistic view, revealing a complete lack of basic knowledge of the technology concerned and the sociology of energy. For this type of objective neutrality is impossible in purely physical terms. Each energy system is bound to be geared to those particular sources of energy, which it uses**. **The choice of energy source determines the political, economic and technological effort required for extraction**, processing, transport and distribution, including the transformation technology needed. **This means that the switch to renewable energies and thus to wholly different energy flows would change everything**. It **would mean a switch from commercial to non-commercial primary energies, from a small number of large power stations and refineries to a large number of medium and small-scale power plants, from internationalised to regionalised infrastructure**, from energies which produce emissions to emission-free energy. And, not least, **from highly concentrated company and ownership structures to more diverse ones. The systemic shift in energy supply represents a paradigm shift in technological, economic and political terms.** It is here that lies the political crux of the energy problem. **Recognising this allows us to understand why certain groups are resisting renewable energies. And how this resistance can be overcome.**



**This framing of the world is the worst ethical framework to work under and allows the commodification of everything – we should reject bad framings of the natural world**
**Smith 2008** (Mick, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, “Suspended Animation: Radical Ecology,
Sovereign Powers, and Saving the (Natural) World”, Journal for the Study of Radicalism, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2008, pp. 1–3)
What is more**,** this ethical and political concern separates radical ecologists, those who would go to the root of that which threatens the world, from the purveyors of environmental expediency, from the “shallow” (to use Arne Naess’s term) environmentalists who formulate all concerns for the natural world within the globally dominant language of resource economics and management. It expresses the difference between those who regard the natural world as a “realm of ends” (to adopt a Kantian idiom) and those who account it merely a “storehouse of means” of value only because of its potential usefulness toward humanly determined ends. On this latter view the world is worth saving only in the sense that one might prudently save money for a rainy day, only as natural capital that earns us interest, rather than as that which is deserving of our interest, our concerns. Radical ecologists, then, argue that a distinction between ends and means, in the sense of ethics and instrumentality, is no less important with regard to the natural than to the social world. Saving the natural world is an end in itself. But, what kind of an end can it be? In what sense can we speak of a natural world of ends, and how might this be related to concerns about an ecological crisis, that is to say, the potential ending of the (natural) world? In any event, doesn’t the rejection of “resourcism” just confirm that radical ecology is, as sceptics suppose, a ridiculous form of fundamentalism naively refusing to engage in realpolitik? There are, I’d suggest, no simple answers to such questions, although just admitting this already begins to distinguish radical ecology from any single-minded fundamentalism. As an initial step, though, we might begin by distinguishing a realpolitik that provides a systematically applied excuse to compromise one’s ethics from a “politics for the real (natural) world,” understood as an applied art of seeking, where possible, ethical compromises, that is, a worldly phronesis, an ethically inspired political wisdom. Of course, speaking the language of resource economics may, on occasion, persuade sovereign powers to grant this or that aspect of the natural world a temporary stay of execution. But, as Neil Evernden1 argues, **it also,** wittingly or unwittingly, accepts the original terms on which nature’s death warrant has already been signed. It concedes everything to an understanding of the world as no more than what Heidegger (1993) refers to as a “standing reserve” of lifeless, that is, de-animated and nonautonomous, “matter” systematically ordered according to a technological enframing (Gestell).2 The forests and their myriad inhabitants are thus conceptually reduced to so many board feet of timber, the once roaring rivers to so many kilowatt hours of hydroelectricity. From more radical perspectives, and at the risk of seeming ungrateful for small mercies, we might regard even those patches of the world momentarily set aside from more corrosive forms of technologically mediated commodification as beings left in a state of suspended animation, as hanging dearly onto bare life above the gallows-drop of global capitalism. The fate of the world’s whales is only one case in point—though “fate” is not the right word here, since their salvation or extinction is, for the moment at least, in human hands and not an issue predetermined by irresistible (super) natural forces. We should bear in mind then that, like realpolitik, fate too provides a rubric that falsely naturalizes worldly apathy. Both terms imply that ethicopolitical action is irretrievably subservient to sovereign powers, powers envisaged as progress or the invisible hand of the market, which we must accept since they cannot be resisted. But neither term has a place in a politics for the real (natural) world precisely because, at least from the perspective of radical ecology, this naturalization is indeed false. Nature is not the source of the short-term, calculating, self-interested individualism that constitutes the (a)social world envisaged by contemporary advocates of realpolitik, nor should it be made subject to it. Nor is nature a synonym for, or ruled by, fate’s decree; it is not governed by powers that impose a predetermined order on the world’s unfolding. The radical ecologist doesn’t want to save whales from realpolitik only to make them subject to some other predetermined fate (as those who reject all interference in natural processes might do), nor do they want to preserve them in timeless aspic in a museum or a dolphinarium. To save the whales is to free them from all claims of human sovereignty, to release them into the flows of evolutionary time, of natural history, just as they release themselves into the flows of the world’s oceans. This saving is an ethico-political action. A politics for the real (natural) world must then recognize that the technological enframing of the world, its ordering as standing reserve, its being conceived as merely an instrumental means to human ends is not fated either. Heidegger warns against “the talk we hear more frequently, to the effect that technology is the fate of our age, where ‘fate’ means the inevitableness of an unalterable course.”3 Nevertheless, although not irresistible, this enframing is, in fact, the “supreme danger” from which a politics of natural reality must strive to save us all—whales, humans, indeed the whole world. For, at this very moment**,** when humanity “postures as lord of the earth,”4 it too risks being reduced to standing reserve, to a material resource open to manipulation and transformation.

**Activists have an important role in the transition to a solar economy. The 1AC is a speech act that holds the government accountable.** **Lewis 02’** (Sandra, Information and Action Addressing Public Policy for an Ecologically Sustainable WorldVolume 2, Number 2) “The Dark Side Of Our Dependence On Fossil Fuels: Time For Quakers To Take A Stand, March 2002, [[http://www.quakerearthcare.org/Publications/QuakerEcoBulletin/QEBArchive/QEB-PDF/QEB2-2-energy.pdf]]
Toward Sane Energy Policies Now is the time for quakers to speak out for energy policies that are environmentally sound, socially just, and economically feasible. Such policies would explicitly aim at eliminating our dependence on fossil fuels and would include strategies, timetables and investments required to achieve this goal. As a nation, we need to pursue this with the urgency and priority of other great national goals such as landing a man on the moon. **Clean, renewable technologies (such as wind and solar) are currently available** and emerging technologies (such as hydrogen fuel cells) are on the verge of being ready for general use. Renewable sources of energy should be phased in through promotion and subsidy for clean power, increasing emissions restrictions, and decreasing support for dirty power. **The policy must provide for a transition to these new technologies that would include retraining of work forces and education of the general public**. Sane policies must account for the environmental, social and moral consequences of the energy we use. It is up to us to hold our political leaders accountable for enacting such policies.

**US imperialism and governmental policy is driven by it’s addiction to fossil fuels**
**Wilkerson 06’** (Joseph, Energy and Psyche: Resource Addiction in the Technological Age, [[http://www.ecopsychology.org/journal/ezine/archive3/addiction.pdf]], April 2006[TL])
The pathological need to control is another key facet of addiction. “Addicts need to control their world to maintain access to the source of their obsession,” Glendenning emphasizes (Roszak ed. 48). Like denial, the need to control can be observed in more than just consumer behavior. This commanding attitude helps to explain both individual energy use and corporate and governmental policy. Energy use (and technology, by extension) is, at base, a tool of control. A thermostat allows consumers to control the temperature of their living and working spaces. A light fixture allows us to control lumination. A car allows us to live and work where we choose and still attend to our needs and wants. Energy allows us to produce goods which make our lives easier, which improve our health, which make us feel good. But, asks theologian Thomas Berry, “what benefit is worth giving up the purity of the air we breathe, the water we drink, the life- giving soil in which our food is grown” (51)? Not all technology is bad, certainly. But the consumer’s desire to control with it has become pathological, and it will take more than technical efficiency or conservation to address this. A reevaluation of our energy “needs” will reveal that a disturbing number reflect our need to control natural cycles of heat and cold, day and night, and natural features like topography and climate. Such a fundamental divorce from natural cycles certainly must impact our psyches. Energy and technology //producers//, too, must exercise control if they are to maintain our addiction--the source of their livelihood. Durning calls such upkeep the “cultivation of needs:” advertising which perpetuates or augments our desires for anything from alcohol or sugar to fame, security or wealth. (“Entire industries,” he notes, “have manufactured a need for themselves” (Durning 119).) Since energy is the fuel which makes other technology possible, the electricity industry, for example, is not alone in its battle to “cultivate needs.” Arguably, any industry that relies on energy colludes in perpetuating our addiction to it day by day; the automotive, agribusiness and appliance industries are a few obvious examples.

===Advantage Two: Viva La Revolucion!=== 

**Oil is the root cause of Capitalism - We exploit it for profit and have become addicted**
**Wilkerson 06’** (Joseph, Professor of Environmental Science, Energy and Psyche: Resource Addiction in the Technological Age, [[http://www.ecopsychology.org/journal/ezine/archive3/addiction.pdf]], April 2006[TL])

“The development of capitalism,” writes deep ecologist and wilderness educator Dolores LaChapelle, “consists in making a group of people addicted to some ‘substance’ and selling it to them” (48). She cites as evidence the age of exploration roughly beginning with Columbus and describes the development of addictions to gold, silver, sugar, tobacco and opium, among others (40). This “substance approach to reality” (49) made modern capitalism possible. By compartmentalizing the natural, material world, Europeans turned the earth into a pile of “natural resources,” commodities which existed for human exploitation, consumption, and now, addiction. One of LaChapelle’s historical observations still can be observed today: Europeans turned the Indian’s sacred tobacco into just another substance--unrelated to anything else. And then produced it on plantations and sold it to a world, gradually growing more addicted to it--until now it’s one of the leading causes of death. Formerly tobacco was life-enhancing, because smoking the ceremonial pipe strengthened the relationships among 10all the humans present as well as put humans into relationship with “powers” of the sky and of the earth (49). A disturbingly similar phenomenon has occurred with modern energy use. In many long- lived hunter-gatherer cultures, communal fires are the source of energy: they were used to prepare food and warm and protect families or entire tribes. Moreover, they were objects of veneration and centers of ritual (Fiero 3); the energy of the fire was one expression of the energy of the universe. Thomas Berry observes that “awareness of an all-pervading mysterious energy articulated in the infinite variety of natural phenomenon seems to be the primordial experience of human consciousness, awakening to an awesome universe filled with mysterious power” (24). But capitalism commodified that energy, bundled it and sold it by the gallon and the kilowatt-hour, and thus denied energy its “life-enhancing” powers. In a supreme irony, capitalists stripped energy of its most vital value when they placed a price on it. Most of us could hardly say we utilize an “all-prevading mysterious energy” when we switch on the blender or “[awaken] to an awesome universe filled with mysterious power” when we make our morning commute. There can exist no “all-pervading” commodity, no strictly utilitarian essence. When we view the energy that we purchase at the gas station or through our electric bill as a //substance//--a tool of technological utility--not an essence, as Berry describes, we become addicted.

**Our aff solves – Renewable energy is key to any sort of anti-capitalist project.**
**Harriss-white and Harriss 08’ (**Barbara Harriss-White, Elinor Harriss, Professor of Development Studies at oxford, Unsustainable Capitalism: The Politics of Renewable Energy in the UK, Socialist Register, Vol 43, [[http://socialistregister.com/index.php/srv/article/view/5859)phol]]

In the final chapter of his influential book, The Future of the Market, **Elmar Altvater seeks the genesis of a new kind of socialist project in a 're-moralization of resource allocation' which he thinks neither markets, nor the 'thin' democracy permitted by markets, allow**. He concludes: '(**t)oday the further evolution of society is possible only if the economic rationality of market procedures is firmly embedded in a complex system of social, non-market regulation of money and nature'**. **Energy must be central to such a project, but the systems properties of its fixed physical infrastructure exemplify the formidable obstacles it faces**. For many good reasons **nuclear energy is an unacceptable option**; and if energyconservation (or so-called 'energy efficiency') is recognized as insufficient, we are left with renewableenergy generation. **It is from renewable energy that Altvater's alternative of a low impact, 'entropy-minimizing', democratically-regulated social infrastructure might be developed**. Any alternative must start from where we are now. This essay describes how **the market-driven politics of energy in the UK** (whose economy is now powered by coal, oil, gas and nuclear energy) **are blocking the development ofrenewable energy, which has physical and technological properties consistent with new, lower-waste forms of capitalism and also with a sustainable socialist economy.**

**Alternatives to capitalism are impossible without renewable energy.**
**Yanity 04’** (Brian Yanity, a student at Columbia University, 6/18/04
[[http://upsidedownworld.org/energyquestionthree.htm]], Socialism and the Energy Question, [[http://upsidedownworld.org/|Upside Down World]])phol

**When decisions about energy production and consumption are decided democratically by the majority of people, renewable energy will naturally become the main energy source**. **When such decisions are by a few looking out only for their own profits, even if the vast majority of people do support clean sources of energy, renewables will not become implemented in a democratic manner. As socialists, we know that we should not be shy about making public demands which capital says is unrealistic**. These will only strengthen are argument that the system as a whole is not reformable. As Paul McGarr said in a 2000 International Socialism Journal article: **The same picture emerges from other collapsed civilisations, where there is little evidence of the ruling class being willing to carry through the fundamental changes needed to avoid disaster**. This is what Marx and Engels meant when they talked of crisis having two possible resolutions, either 'a revolutionary reconstitution of society at large or in the common ruin of the contending classes'. Marx pointed to the way this process of crisis could unfold in relation to the environment. He argued that **any society depends 'on the climate, the physical properties of the soil, the physically conditioned mode of its utilisation' and how if that society 'is to continue in the old way, the reproduction of its members under the objective conditions already assumed as given is necessary'. But such reproduction of society in its existing form, with its existing class relations and way of organising production, has the seeds of disaster built into it:** 'Production itself in time necessarily eliminates these conditions, destroying instead of reproducing them, etc, and as this occurs the community decays and dies, together with the property relations on which it was based'. **The grip of the old ruling class leads to an increasing inability to sustain the needs of society on the basis of the old way of organising production**. Persistence in a particular way of organising society and the production it is based on produces social crisis and environmental crisis, the two go hand in hand. **Renewable energy should not be called “alternative” energy, though that is true in the present energy situation. If human civilization is to survive, there is ultimately no alternative to renewable energy.** And as stated by Scheer: The Earth is rich, and it owes its wealth to the sun. That this wealth is today more often burnt than used and preserved for the future is the greatest economic nonsense imaginable. And then to call this destruction of resources ‘economic growth’ makes a mockery of the phrase. This is not economic growth, but economic destruction, and it leads not to Adam Smith’s ‘wealth of nations’, but rather to Elmar Altvater’s ‘poverty of nations’**. Socialism depends upon abundance, and the only resources which are truly abundant are renewable resources. True abundance, and therefore socialism, on a global scale is impossible without widespread use of renewable energy.** **The future socialist society will no doubt be powered by renewable energy, while coal, gas, oil, and nuclear will be phased out entirely. Instead of something which should be deferred until after capitalism, this is a problem which we should work on right now. The potential and knowledge are out there, and practical solutions are popping up all over the place. A big part of the job of socialists is preparing the future, and the future will be powered by renewable energy**.

**Oil is a tool of coercion, by reducing our dependence we solve all their impacts.**
**Kelanic 08’** (Black Gold and Blackmail: The International Politics of Oil Coercion, Rosemary A. Kelanic, Department of Political Science University of Chicago, [[http://research.chicagobooth.edu/energy/docs/Kelanic-website.pdf]], 2008)phol

**Energy security experts have warned of thepotential of oil being used as a political weapon against the United States**; <span style="font-size: 8pt;">despite the existence of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, many believe America has meaningful exposure to a severe disruption. </span>**Similar fears surround Russia’s apparent willingness to use its oil and natural gas resources to wrest political concessions from European countries**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as it has done with mixed results since the dissolution of the USSR.These concerns raise a number of questions. Chief among them is whether the “oil weapon” confers political leverage to those who wield it. </span>**Can nations actually blackmail adversaries by threatening their access to oil? If so, when is “oilcoercion” most likely to be effective and why**? **For these purposes, oil coercion isdefined as a situation in which one state threatens or takes actions to deprive the target of its oil supply until it acquiesces to the coercer’s political demands.**
===Framework=== 

**Interpretation: Prefer Ontological Questioning and challenges to capitalist domination as opposed to questions of merely body counts**

**Reasons to Prefer:**
# **Education – our aff gets unique education – they can’t access**
# **Our Interpretation is that ontological questions come before any political actions can take place-- it is a prerequisite to all political considerations**
**Dillon**, Prof of Politics- University of Lancaster, **99** [Michael, Moral Spaces p. 97-98]
Heirs to all this, we find ourselves in the turbulent and now globalized wake of its confluence. As Heidegger-himself an especially revealing figure of the deep and mutual implication of the philosophical and the political4-never tired of pointing out, the relevance of ontology to all other kinds of thinking is fundamental and inescapable. For one cannot say anything about any-thing that is, without always already having made assumptions about the is as such. Any mode of thought, in short, always already carries an ontology sequestered within it. What this ontological turn does to other-regional-modes of thought is to challenge the ontology within which they operate. The implications of that review reverberate through-out the entire mode of thought, demanding a reappraisal as fundamental as the reappraisal ontology has demanded of philosophy. With ontology at issue, the entire foundations or underpinnings of any mode of thought are rendered problematic. This applies as much to any modern discipline of thought as it does to the question of modernity as such, with the exception, it seems, of science, which, having long ago given up the ontological questioning of when it called itself natural philosophy, appears now, in its industrialized and corporatized form, to be invulnerable to ontological perturbation. With its foundations at issue, the very authority of a mode of thought and the ways in which it characterizes the critical issues of freedom and judgment (of what kind of universe human beings inhabit, how they inhabit it, and what counts as reliable knowledge for them in it) is also put in question. The very ways in which Nietzsche, Heidegger, and other continental philosophers challenged Western ontology, simultaneously, therefore reposed the fundamental and inescapable difficulty, or aporia, for human being of decision and judgment. In other words, whatever ontology you subscribe to, knowingly or unknowingly, as a human being you still have to act. Whether or not you know or acknowledge it, the ontology you subscribe to will construe the problem of action for you in one way rather than another. You may think ontology is some arcane question of philosophy, but Nietzsche and Heidegger showed that it intimately shapes not only a way of thinking, but a way of being, a form of life. Decision, a fortiori political decision, in short, is no mere technique. It is instead a way of being that bears an understanding of Being, and of the fundaments of the human way of being within it. This applies, indeed applies most, to those mock -innocent political slaves who claim only to be technocrats of decision making.

# **Our framework is best for debate—it departs from the ho hum world of policy debate that criminalizes any criticism of what is considered normal and likeminded**
**Butler 04** (Judith Butler, Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature, University of California - Berkeley, PRECARIOUS LIFE, 2004, xix)

Dissent and debate depend upon the inclusion of those who maintain critical views of state policy and civic culture remaining part of a larger public discussion of the value of policies and politics. To charge those who voice critical views with treason, terrorist sympathizing, anti-Semitism, moral relativism, postmodernism, juvenile behavior, collaboration, anachronistic Leftism, is to seek to destroy the credibility not of the views that are held, but of the very persons who hold them. It produces the climate of fear in which to voice a certain view is to risk being branded and shamed with heinous appellation. To continue to voice one's views under those conditions is not easy, since one must not only discount the truth of appellation, but brave the stigma that seizes up from the public domain. Dissent is quelled, in part, through threatening the speaking subject with an uninhabitable identification<span style="background-color: yellow;">.</span> Because it would be heinous to identify as treasonous, as a collaborator, one fails to speak, or one speaks in throttled ways, in order to sidestep the terrorizing identification that threatens to take hold. This strategy for quelling dissent and limiting the reach of critical debate happens not only through a series of shaming tactics which have a certain psychological terrorizations as their effect, but they work as well by producing what will and will not count as a viable speaking subject and a reasonable opinion within the public domain<span style="background-color: yellow;">.</span> It is precisely because one does not want to lose one's status as a viable speaking being that one does not say what one thinks. Under social conditions that regulate identifications and the sense of viability to this degree, censorship operates implicitly and forcefully. The line that circumscribes what is speakableand what is livable also function as an instrument of censorship. To decide what views will count as reasonable within the public domain, however, is to decide what will and will not count as the public sphere of debate. And if someone holds views that are not in line with the nationalist norm, that person comes to lack credibility as a speaking person, and the media is not open to him or her (though the internet, interestingly, is). The foreclosure of critique empties the public domain of debate and democratic contestation itself, so that debate becomes the exchange of views among the likeminded, and criticism, which ought to be central to any democracy, becomes a fugitive and suspect activity. Public policy, including foreign policy, often seeks to restrain the public sphere from being open to certain forms of debate and the circulation of media coverage. One way a hegemonic understanding of politics is achieved is through circumscribing what will and will not be admissible as part of the public sphere itself. Without disposing populations in such a way that war seems good and right and true, no war can claim popular consent, and no administration can maintain popularity. To produce what will constitute the public sphere, however, it is necessary to control the way in which people see, how they hear, what they see. The constraints are not only on content-certain images of dead bodies in Iraq, for instance, are considered unacceptable for public visual consumption - but on what "can" be heard, read, seen, felt, and known. The public sphere of appearance is one way to establish what will count as reality, and what will not. It is also a way of establishing whose lives can be marked as lives, and whose deaths will count as deaths. Our capacity to feel and to apprehend hangs in the balance.

# **Resisting this reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility – capitalism ensures the current social order which guarantees social exclusion on a global scale**
**Zizek and Daly 2k4** (Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)
For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol and recognize that our ethico-political responsibility is to confront the constitutive violence of today’s global capitalism and its obscene naturalization / anonymization of the millions who are subjugated by it throughout the world. Against the standardized positions of postmodern culture – with all its pieties concerning ‘multiculturalist’ etiquette – Zizek is arguing for a politics that might be called ‘radically incorrect’ in the sense that it break with these types of positions 7 and focuses instead on the very organizing principles of today’s social reality: the principles of global liberal capitalism. This requires some care and subtlety. For far too long, Marxism has been bedeviled by an almost fetishistic economism that has tended towards political morbidity. With the likes of Hilferding and Gramsci, and more recently Laclau and Mouffee, crucial theoretical advances have been made that enable the transcendence of all forms of economism. In this new context, however, Zizek argues that the problem that now presents itself is almost that of the opposite fetish. That is to say, the prohibitive anxieties surrounding the taboo of economism can function as a way of not engaging with economic reality and as a way of implicitly accepting the latter as a basic horizon of existence. In an ironic Freudian-Lacanian twist, the fear of economism can end up reinforcing a de facto economic necessity in respect of contemporary capitalism (i.e. the initial prohibition conjures up the very thing it fears). This is not to endorse any kind of retrograde return to economism. Zizek’s point is rather that in rejecting economism we should not lose sight of the systemic power of capital in shaping the lives and destinies of humanity and our very sense of the possible. In particular we should not overlook Marx’s central insight that in order to create a universal global system the forces of capitalism seek to conceal the politico-discursive violence of its construction through a kind of gentrification of that system. What is persistently denied by neo-liberals such as Rorty (1989) and Fukuyama (1992) is that the gentrification of global liberal capitalism is one whose ‘universalism’ fundamentally reproduces and depends upon a disavowed violence that excludes vast sectors of the world’s populations. In this way, neo-liberal ideology attempts to naturalize capitalism by presenting its outcomes of winning and losing as if they were simply a matter of chance and sound judgment in a neutral market place. Capitalism does indeed create a space for a certain diversity, at least for the central capitalist regions, but it is neither neutral nor ideal and its price in terms of social exclusion is exorbitant. That is to say, the human cost in terms of inherent global poverty and degraded ‘life-chances’ cannot be calculated within the existing economic rationale and, in consequence, social exclusion remains mystified and nameless (viz. the patronizing reference to the ‘developing world’). And Zizek’s point is that this mystification is magnified through capitalism’s profound capacity to ingest its own excesses and negativity: to redirect (or misdirect) social antagonisms and to absorb them within a culture of differential affirmation. Instead of Bolshevism, the tendency today is towards a kind of political boutiquism that is readily sustained by postmodern forms of consumerism and lifestyle. Against this Zizek argues for a new universalism whose primary ethical directive is to confront the fact that our forms of social existence are founded on exclusion on a global scale. While it is perfectly true that universalism can never become Universal (it will always require a hegemonic-particular embodiment in order to have any meaning), what is novel about Zizek’s universalism is that it would not attempt to conceal this fact or reduce the status of the abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.


=Negative= 
==Capitalism Kritik== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]