== == 
=Affirmative= 
==**Solar Sails-Whitman**== 

**Contention 1: Inherency**
**NASA terminated funding for solar sail demonstrations in the status quo**
**Johnson et al 10** (Les, Roy Young, Edward Montgomery, Dean Alhorn, NASA George C. Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, Alabama, USA, "Status of Solar Sail Technology Within NASA," July, http://www.citytech.cuny.edu/isss2010/ISSS2010Proceedingsvx.pdf)


**Funding is the only barrier towards solar sail development—not technology**
**Janhunen, 8** – Ph.D., is a researcher in Finnish Meteorological Institute (2008, Pekka Janhunen, Journey of the British Interplanetary Society, “THE ELECTRIC SAIL - A NEW PROPULSION METHOD WHICH MAY ENABLE FAST MISSIONS TO THE OUTER SOLAR SYSTEM”, Vol. 61, google)

Thus me and my partner present the following plan: The USfg should fully fund the development and deployment of large scale solar sails.

**Contention 2: Heg**
**Japan is taking over space-based tech leadership though solar sail innovation—recent IKAROS launch proves**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Shay 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher,“Japan:TheNew Pioneer of the Final Frontier?,” Time, 6/21/10, http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1997768,00.html#ixzz1QK4mKaOZ)</span>

**These Japanese solar sail advancements signal the decline of US space-based tech innovation. We need to catch back up**
**Mick 10 -** senior news editor at independent tech news site DailyTech (Jason, “Japan's Revolutionary Solar Sail Accelerates Towards the Stars,” DailyTech, 7/19/10, http://www.dailytech.com/Japans+Revolutionary+Solar+Sail+Accelerates+Towards+the+Stars/article19078.htm)

**Space-based tech leadership is the cornerstone to US global hegemony**
**Stone, 11 –** space policy analyst and strategist (March 14, Christopher, “American leadership in space: leadership through capability”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1),

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Loss of American dominance creates multiple scenarios for nuclear war.</span>**
Kagan ‘07
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert Kagan, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, August-September 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Policy Review, online: http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html</span>

**Innovation through new space projects such as ours are key to regaining US preeminence in space leadership**
**Mankins, 9** –25 years at NASA Headquarters and JPL (May 18, John, “To boldly go: the urgent need for a revitalized investment in space technology”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1377/1)

**Contention 3: Warming**
**THE PLANET IS HEATING UP RAPIDLY AND WE ARE THE CAUSE. WITHOUT IMMEDIATE ACTION BY THE UNITED STATES, THE PLANET WILL CROSS A TIPPING POINT AND WARMING WILL BECOME UNSTOPPABLE.**
**HANSON, 8** (James, Adjunct Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University’s Earth Institute, “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April, http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf)

**Warming causes extinction** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Oliver Tickell. “On A Planet 4C hotter, All We Can Prepare For is Extinction” The Guardian. August 11, 2008. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]</span>

**All of other impacts ranging from disease, immigration, the economy, to terrorism will be exacerbated by climate change – action now prevents runaway warming**
**Becker**//__<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>__//executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project (PCAP)//<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>//worked on energy efficiency and renewable energy programs for 15 years at the U.S. Department of Energy, **2011**
(Bill , “ <span style="color: #333333;">[[http://climateprogress.org/2011/01/24/will-global-warming-chill-obama%e2%80%99s-legacy/|Will global warming chill Obama’s legacy?]]</span>” January 24, 20__11__ http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/01/24/207389/will-global-warming-chill-obama%E2%80%99s-legacy/ accessed6-27 TM)

**The energy gathered from one sail could power the earth 100 billion times, far more than any other ideas in the squo. Capable of ending both the resource and warming crisis**
**National Review Online 10** (Greg Pollowitz, “Solar Sail Could Power the Entire Earth” http://www.nationalreview.com/planet-gore/248361/solar-sail-could-power-entire-earth-greg-pollowitz, 9/30/10)

**Contention 4: Solar Storms**
**Solar storms are a direct threat—can knock out critical satellites and leave the US open to attack without warning**
**Vulpetti, et. al, 7** – Ph.D, member of he International Academy of Astronautics, Associate Fellow of AIAA, and Member of the Planetary Society(2007, Giovanni Vulpetti, Les Johnson, and Gregory Matloff, Solar sails : a novel approach to interplanetary travel, p. 91-110)

**Disruption of satellites shatters the global economy**
**Dillow 10** (Clay, Researcher – Popular Science Magazine, “Pentagon: A Space Junk Collision Could Set Off Catastrophic Chain Reaction, Disable Earth Communications”, Popsci, 5-27, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2010-05/dod-space-junk-tipping-point-collision-could-set-catastrophic-chain-reaction|http://www.popsci.com/technology/ article/2010-05/dod-space-junk-tipping-point-collision-could-set-catastrophic-chain-reaction]])

**<span class="cite">Financial Collapse Causes Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bearden 2k </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc) ET</span>


**Solar sails can provide early warning of solar storms to satellites—allows preparation time**

**Vulpetti, et. al, 7** – Ph.D, member of he International Academy of Astronautics, Associate Fellow of AIAA, and Member of the Planetary Society(2007, Giovanni Vulpetti, Les Johnson, and Gregory Matloff, Solar sails : a novel approach to interplanetary travel, p. 91-110)

==Rhizomes-Gonzaga== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">**Observation 1 is Desire:**</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Since the Cold War, conceptions of space have been founded on the heternormative discourses of exploration and domination. These conceptions have remained deeply ingrained in society thus 'outer space' have become a societal expression. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griffin 9</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>

**Heteronomativity can only exist when there is a desire for it to be in place. These types of desire takes place on the individual level and is called Fascism. This fascist tendency is a self-denying desire that seeks to whether through incremental repression or mass slaughter and butchery as it enters the authoritarian sphere.**
<span class="cite">Seem ‘83</span>
[Mark, Intro to AO xvii]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We criticize institutions that drive desire, those that seek to expand centralized power at the expense of free spaces. Our affirmation is of a larger struggle against State Fascism. We are against divisions and affirm a politics of continuation – constantly seeking new political outlets and investigating their potential. Our affirmation cannot be tied down or controlled – we move beyond the binary of beginnings and ends and explore the vast middle ground of infinite possibilities</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conley in 2006</span>(Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)

**The SQUO has turned the State into a War Machine. Everything is a battlefield: war is being waged on culture, politics and the individuals being oppressed. War is an immanent thing, everywhere and nowhere at the same time, a war on all society. Fear has turned us all into cannibals, desiring our own domination and servitude.** **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This is Daniel Bell in 2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Daniel M., Associate Professor of Theological Ethics, Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary, Journal for Cultural and Religious Theory, JCRT 8.2 SPRING 2007 55,d http://www.jcrt.org/archives/08.2/) </span>
<span class="underline">We take a behind the scenes look at what space is. We explore space by investigating not only the discourse that is responsible for our current conception of space, but how that conception is formed. We chose to develop a new way of relating to Space, heteronormativity, and the Fascism responsible for it all. An aff ballot supports for a new mode of resistance that removes its self from the cycle of fear in favor of one based off a rhizomatic model.</span>

Our movement does not require grandiose movements or charismatic leaders, it requires only a single strike from the norm. The potential for change already exists, all that is needed is a line of flight – one action – in order to awaken this power.
**Ian Pindar and Paul Sutton, 2000** (Translators Introduction to The Three Ecologies. Pindar reviews regularly for the Guardian, the Times Literary Supplement and the London Review of Books: Sutton is an Ecosophist and has a PhD in ecology) pp. 9-11


**Our affirmative is supposed to learn from and play with the content and ethos of their criticism, to combine the function and form of their political strategy with our own, creating an entirely new machine.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brian Massumi, 1983</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Political philosopher and social theorist, with a PhD in French literature from Yale; A Thousand Plateaus, Introduction)</span>

Observation 2 is Debate:
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The debate space is key – imperial control has manifested itself into the sphere of communication – cutting off politics before it can be developed. Interjecting the affirmative politics of rhizomatic movements into the ether debate is necessary to challenge state sovereignty and reclaim agency</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hardt and Negri in 2k</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Terrorists, awesome dudes, profs at places of respectable respectedness; Empire)</span>

**We should use the debate space as a beginning to struggle against fascism. This struggle is creative; it’s unique and outside the box. Our affirmative breaths joy, passion and experimentation back into the staleness of the debate space.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foucault 72</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Anti-Oedipus pg. xiii-iv]</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Debate is only a collection of shared understandings and explicit or implicit rules for interaction. Wins and losses are our currency, and we should use this place, space, and time – the alternative is forfeiting the only power we have. We may not be able to immediately enact federal policy, but we can change the community that we participate in. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rebecca </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bjork</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">former college debater, coach, and professor in </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘93 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>




=Negative= 
==Death== 
**A - - Death is a rendezvous, not an objective destiny. Meeting death is a chance encounter that cannot be controlled, because accidents, death, and other events. The more we try to escape fate, the more we seem to run to it.**
**Baudrillard explains in 2001** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(//Seduction//, 2001, p. 72-74)</span>


**B**. **Death is a fantasy – our biology means we cannot truly “die” or cease to be, rather we enter a new form of becoming. Even if we are all wiped from the face of the earth in a hailstorm of nuclear bombs the process of life goes on even at the micro level. There is no unique warrant for why the biological construct of human deserves a place higher than the construct of atoms. This desire to be secure from death is the most personal level of microfascism that negates our ability to live life to its fullest and breeds ressentiment.**

Deleuze and Guattari 72 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[AO, 330-39]</span>


**__B - - Our interpretation__ is that 1.the aff should have to prove that death is something that can be avoided, unlike life and 2. The aff has to prove there is a warrant for death being an impact and a reason why human life is better than micro life. If they can prove this, the aff can weigh death as an impat, but if not you vote neg on presumption**



**AND,**



**“Should” means that there is a practical reason for the United States federal government to do something.**

**__<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">WordNet in ‘97</span>__****<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Princeton University, 1.6</span>**

**C - - because they fail to distinguish life from death, the affirmative doesn’t provide a justification for plan passage, and you vote negative on presumption.**


==Nietzsche Kritik== 

The 1AC is an example of the modern age’s ressentiment towards the world – it constructs an ideal world in opposition to our world of suffering. In a drive towards the ideal world, the plan labors to shape the world to fit its impossible fantasy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Saurette 96</span>
<span class="cite">96</span> (Paul, Prof of political theory/science atJohnHopkinsUniversity, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory.” Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25, number 1. pp. 3-6, AD:7/6/09)

The 1AC enacts a system of attempting to cure the suffering of our world as is. This view carries with it that the universe is something to be rejected making life something to be hated. Only by affirming the imperfection in our world are we able to retain our value to life
<span class="cite">Kain 7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Philip J, Professor of philosophy at University of Santa Clara, "Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence," the Journal of Nietzsche Studies, muse, AD: 6/30/09)</span>


Life is a twisted, amoral work of art – Suffering is an unavoidable condition of humanity – the idea we can control the world allows suffering to dominate our lives which destroys all value

<span class="cite">Kain 7</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Philip J, Professor of philosophy at University of Santa Clara, "Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence," the Journal of Nietzsche Studies, muse, AD: 7/6/09) </span>


The alternative is to vote negative as a willful affirmation of the suffering portrayed in the aff’s impacts. Only by accepting suffering can we eliminate its psychological stranglehold and bring the value back to life

<span class="cite">Kain 7</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Philip J, Professor of philosophy at University of Santa Clara, "Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence," the Journal of Nietzsche Studies, muse, AD: 7/6/09) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The ballot must be used as an ethical action – instead of roleplaying, only transforming our own personal relationship with suffering can solve</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newman 0</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Saul, Senior Lecturer in Politics @ U of London, “Anarchism and the Politics of Ressentiment,” Theory & Event - Volume 4, Issue 3, Muse, AD: 7/8/09)</span>