[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=1AC Plan= 
**The United States federal government should establish lunar property rights for helium-3 mining.**

=1AC Property Rights= 
=1AC Moon Wars Advantage= 
**Moon race is happening – a legal framework for land distribution is required**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While the notion of traveling to the Moon to secure a rare isotope, ...as Part II will demonstrate.</span>


**Absent a property rights regime, conflict is inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Noting the substantive problems presented by the text of both the OST and the Moon Agreement,...</span>conflict over the greatest economic opportunity in history.


**That escalates to nuclear war with Russia and a space arms race**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beljac 8</span> (Marko Beljac, PhD at Monash University, a Foreign Policy In Focus contributor, teaches at the University of Melbourne. He blogs at http://sciencesecurity.livejournal.com, | April 1, 2008, [[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5113]] | Suo)

<span class="underline0">China has tested an anti satellite weapon .... states place upon nuclear deterrence.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War with Russia causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 31, 2009, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline" style="font-size: 8pt;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian ...The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today. </span>


**Independently makes war and miscalc more likely**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 08 </span>[Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, [[http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live]]]

Perhaps of even greater concern .... act from an accidental one would be highly problematic.


**Recognizing property rights solves resource conflict**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As stated at the forefront of this Note, ... </span>international harmony and humanitarian rewards.


**The US can unilaterally recognize land rights – that’s spurs investment and avoids international backlash**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
The problems with international methods in changing space law are obvious. ... in outer space pending some agreed-upon international regime."


**That spills over globally**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser 11</span> (Allan Wasser, former broadcast journalist at ABC News and CBS News, Chairman of the Executive Committee (CEO) of the National Space Society, member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Advocate of the Space Frontier Foundation, author of numerous articles on the subject of space property rights, most recently in The Explorers Journal, the official magazine of the Explorers Club, Space News, Ad Astra, Space Governance, May 2011, “The Space Settlement Initiative”, [[http://www.spacesettlement.org/]] | Suo)

The United States will probably be the first ...<span class="underline0"> **to undertake alone.** </span>


**Land claim recognition is key to open up private investment**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bennett 8</span> (Drake Bennett, staff writer for Ideas and Bloomberg Business, May 18, 2008, “If we really want to explore space, maybe we should sell it off to the highest bidders”, [[http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2008/05/18/my_space/]] | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IF THE PAST few years have taught us anything, ..."and obviously being willing to sell rides to the settlement would be a way of accomplishing that."</span>


**Private enterprise is the only peaceful way to develop space – interdependence means countries cooperate**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]] | Suo)</span>

Some of those who have written on this subject<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span>no way be considered a U.S. attempt to appropriate the Moon<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.71</span>
=1AC Economy Advantage= 
**Advantage 2 - Economy**
**Multiple internals:**
**a. Investment- Common Heritage makes space not cost effective for US companies- the plan provides a massive incentive**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ranjana </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kaul</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, partner at Dua Associates practicing space law, columnist for the Financial Express, 11/15/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, http://www.financialexpress.com/news/column-whose-moon-is-it-anyway/385819/0</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">November 14, 2008 was historic....</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> But these propositions contradict international law.</span>

**b. Industrialization- the plan provides infinite directions for spacefaring companies- jumpstarts the market and puts us back on top**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Apollo landing on the Moon ... which may be reaped from the commercialization of space.</span>


**Only the plan sends the signal that development of space is legitimate- paves the way for more innovative ventures**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>


**Currently, most ventures are performed in the vacuum of space ... through some abstract claim- of-right to the final product.**
**Within 5 years the plan spurs lunar mining that uncovers a vast array of resources- leads to limitless wealth and makes us filthy rich**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ezra J. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reinstein</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Space offers the potential for practically limitless wealth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ...</span> we may be denied access to the fruits of space for a long time to come.


**That independently causes the next industrial revolution**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An immediate and accelerated surge in the </span>... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">including genetic engineering and molecular electronics. </span>

**Economic decline causes war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, ... both within and between states</span> in a<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>dog-eat-dog world.


**Diversionary conflict theory makes war stemming from economic collapse a reality**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron Friedberg and Gabriel Schoenfeld, Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, Senior editor of Commentary, //The Dangers of a Diminished America//, Accessed Online at the WSJ)</span>

**The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, ... Japan faces similar challenges. India is still in the early stages of its emergence as a world economic and geopolitical power.**

**The combination of isolationism and diversion is the most deadly- leads to world war three**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ockham Research ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Independent Equity Research Provider based in Atlanta Georgia, Economic Distress and Geopolitical Risks, November 18th, Accessed Online @ Seeking Alpha)</span>

The economic turmoil roiling world markets right now brings ... the regime itself and onto another race, country, ideology, etc.


**Land claims are the biggest internal link to colonization – larger than all others combined.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]] | Suo)</span>

HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on moving out into the cosmos ... <span class="underline0">**without these nations being guilty of national appropriation or any other legal violation.**</span>

**Every second of colonization delay costs trillions of possible future lives**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Bostrum</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Director, Oxford Future of Humanity Institute Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">03</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a rough approximation, let us say the Virgo Supercluster contains 10^13 stars. ... the conclusion will hold.</span>



=Negative= 
=**__<span style="font-size: 24pt;">XO – 1NC</span>__**= 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The President of the United States should construct and deploy a wide- field infrared survey telescope. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Observation 1: Competition </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Definitional: “The” means all parts – they’re definitionally bound to defending all branches</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merriam-Webster's</span>__**Online Collegiate Dictionary,**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No Date</span>__**__,__
http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary

__used__ as a function word before a noun or a substantivized adjective __to indicate reference to a group as a whole__ <the elite>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. Resolutional – Resolved means legislative action</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lousiana House of Representatives 5</span>__** (http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm)

__Resolution A legislative instrument that__ generally __is used for__ making declarations, stating __policies__, and making decisions where some other form is not required. A bill includes the constitutionally required enacting clause; a resolution uses the term "resolved". Not subject to a time limit for introduction nor to governor's veto. ( Const. Art. III, §17(B) and House  Rules 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)


=KORUS Politics 1NC= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Will Pass – Top of docket, obama push and bipart support</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Reuters, 9/15 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/16/usa-china-trade-idUSS1E78E20V20110916)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The push for China currency legislation comes as President Barack ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">that would</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> hopefully </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">set the stage for action on the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> three </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">trade pacts</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space spending is massively controversial- drains capital </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Handberg 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Roger Handberg is a Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1)</span>

__The US space program remained focused, ...__ now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Capital key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mclarty and Cunningham, 11 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">THOMAS "MACK" MCLARTY III AND NELSON W. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. McLarty was chief of staff to President Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort. Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954004576090290103169526.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Now, in a few short weeks, ... to help quarterback the effort.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">key to solve heg, econ, trade, and korea conflict </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">—soft power, diplomacy, economics, and hard power.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hubbard, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Director for Asia, McLarty Associates and Former Ambassador to South Korea (4/7/11, Thomas, Congressional Documents and Publications, “House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade Hearing - Brady Announces Third in a Series of Three Hearings on the Pending, Job-Creating Trade Agreements: South Korea Trade Agreement,” Factiva,)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The United States-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">KORUS) is a </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">critical step</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">security and economic interests into the future</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hayes and Green 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (Peter, Professor of International Relations – Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and Director – Nautilus Institute, and Michael Hamel, Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report, 1-5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The consequences</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments, ... a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>

=**__<span style="font-size: 24pt;">1NC Whiteness K</span>__**= 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their argument elevates white supremacy to an all-pervasive force that explains nearly all global oppression – this conceptual expansion hides the actual practice of racism and makes breaking it down more difficult</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Andersen 3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Margaret L. Andersen, Professor of Sociology and Women's Studies and Vice Provost for Academic Affairs at the University of Delaware, 2003, “Whitewashing Race: A Critical Perspective on Whiteness,” in White Out: The Continuing Significance of Racism, ed Doane & Bonilla-Silva, p. 30-32</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conceptually, </span>__one of the major problems in the whiteness literature is the reification of whiteness as a concept, as an experience,...__ __whiteness has come to mean just about everything, it ends up meaning hardly anything.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their belief that white supremacy inevitably stops reforms dooms the aff – their reliance on essentialized notions of white supremacy as the glue that holds the entire system of oppression together means their politics goes nowhere</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Andersen 3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Margaret L. Andersen, Professor of Sociology and Women's Studies and Vice Provost for Academic Affairs at the University of Delaware, 2003, “Whitewashing Race: A Critical Perspective on Whiteness,” in White Out: The Continuing Significance of Racism, ed Doane & Bonilla-Silva, p. 30-32</span>

__Even those who acknowledge the material basis of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> race and </span>__racism__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">... </span>__Particularly since this body of literature seldom deals with the material reality of racial segregation and discrimination, this seems unlikely.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Political systems historically constituted by white supremacy are not inevitably oppressive – setting the goal of the aff as ending white supremacy is politically ineffective – reforming whiteness to resolve the impacts of oppression is better</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sullivan 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Shannon Sullivan, Head of Philosophy and Professor of Philosophy, Women's Studies, and African and African American Studies at Pennsylvania State University, Spring 2008, “Whiteness as Wise Provincialism: Royce and the Rehabilitation of a Racial Category,” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society: A Quarterly Journal in American Philosophy, Vol. 44, No. 2</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is commonly acknowledged today, ... </span> __And they both suggest that **a theory of racial justice that ignores this need will not be effective in practice.**__
=**__<span style="font-size: 24pt;">1NC Agonism</span>__**= 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Their embrace of identity politics is naïve – true equity requires Agonistic pluralism</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deylami 4</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Shirin S. Deylami, Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, “(Un)Closeting Democracy: the Limits and Possibilities of Legalism in the Pursuit of Queer Politics”, AllAcademic)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Political Recognition and Agonistic Politics While political recognition ... protections of sexuality are unfair “special” protections. 13 </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. The fiction of harmony and universal inclusion within political spaces has lead to mass genocides, war, and absolute exclusion – acknowledging ideological distinctions through agonism is the only way to avoid inevitable destruction</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rasch 5</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle South Atlantic Quarterly 104 (2) http://saq.dukejournals.org/cgi/reprint/104/2/253.pdf)</span>

__Schmitt, then, starts from the premise of imperfection and acknowledges an ontological priority of violence....__ __**nightmares of absolute exclusion.**__ 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C. Reject the aff to create a political space for discussion – it’s an environment where we can practice agonistic pluralism and an acknowledgement of inevitable conflict as part of the political process</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mouffe 2K</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Chantal Mouffe, Visiting Professor at the Department of Political Science of the Institute for Advanced Studies, June 2000, “Deliberative Democracy or Agonistic Pluralism”, http://users.unimi.it/dikeius/pw_72.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Besides putting the emphasis on practices and language games, ... </span>__but they should be seen as temporary respites in an ongoing confrontation.__ 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]