[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

===<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Plan Text</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Thus the plan, The United States federal government should increase Space Based Solar Power.</span>
===1AC=== 

Inherency

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Contention One is Inherency:</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lack of federal investment has undermined SPS development</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cox, 3/26</span>

[William John, retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author and political activist, The Peoples Voice, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/26/the-race-for-space-solar-energy]], BJM]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space-solar energy is the greatest source of untapped energy which could, potentially, completely solve the world’s energy and greenhouse gas emission problems AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">futuristic space projects.</span>

Plan

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Thus the plan, The United States federal government should increase Space Based Solar Power.</span>

Space Leadership

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Contention two is Advantages-</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Advantage one is Space Leadership-</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Space is the 21st Century battlefield – other spacefaring nations are winning the race putting the US at a competitive disadvantage – only enhancing space technology allows us to control the commons</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dowd, 2009</span>

[Alan W., senior fellow with the

AND

, BJM]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The next war In 1996, the Clinton </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">not stand still while the United States regroups. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, US leads in aerospace competitiveness now, but space development is key to stay ahead of China</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wharton 2011</span> (Wharton Aerospace and Defense Report, 6/17/11, “Boeing Executive Worried about U.S. Aerospace Industry’s Future” accessed 6/27/11 [[http://executiveeducation.wharton.upenn.edu/wharton-aerospace-defense-report/Boeing-Executive-Worried-about-US-Aerospace-Industrys-Future-0611.cfm]])



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jim Albaugh, the top executive of Boeing's </span>

**__AND__**

**__again__**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> now that the Shuttle program winds down. </span>__

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, The race for SSP is underway. The US needs commitment to remain competitive.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cox 11 </span>(William, public interest lawyer, Truthout.org, April 30, [[http://www.truthout.org/race-space-solar-energy/1304186557]])



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The failures of the General Electric nuclear reactors </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">economic, energy, political and military </span>problems.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, An investment in space solar power is necessary to revitalize aerospace research and development, workforce, and infrastructure development</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">NSSO </span>National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” 9-10-<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2007,</span> [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that </span>

AND

would be a powerful expression of this<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> imperative. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control – it can harden satellites, sustain unmanned warfighters, and reconstitute lost assets rapidly</span>

Kim <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ramos</span>, US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2000</span> [[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space In addition to the terrestrial implications of </span>

AND

, and repositioning <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to meet warfighter requirements.26 </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Space leadership prevents challengers</span>

Feng<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> Hsu</span>, et al, Hsu, Ph.D. NASA GSFC, Sr. Fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group and Ken Cox, Ph.D. Founder & Director, Aerospace Technology Working Group, 3-29-<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2009</span>, An Aerospace Technology Working Group White Paper, Version 2.1.1, Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development A Unified Strategic Vision, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:GE3LprY2AvcJ:www.spacerenaissance.org/papers/A-UnifiedSpaceVision-Hsu-Cox.pdf+Sustainable+Space+Exploration+and+Space+Development+A+United+Strategic+Vision&hl=en&gl=us]]



Should the U.S. fail to

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the most significant undertakings of the 21st century. </span>

China Scenario

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scenario one is China-</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">That prevents an attack from China the equivalent of Space Pearl Harbor</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">STONE 07</span>, Christopher: B.A. from the University of Missouri, space and missile officer

[“Chinese intentions and American preparedness,” http

AND

.com/article/930/1]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On January 11, 2007 the Chinese launched </span>

AND

a surprise attack by a future space aggressor<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Our inability to outpace China in space makes war inevitable: We would lash out based on perception.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">TELLIS 07</span>, Ashley: Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, former Senior Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation

[“China's Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49

AND

/tellis_china_space1.pdf]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space </span>

AND

offence-defense arms race, and win<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, U.S.-China war will go nuclear and destroy the planet.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">STRAITS TIMES 2k</span>

[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25, 2000, LEXIS]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">THE high-intensity scenario </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> sovereignty above everything else.</span>

Heg Scenario

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scenario two is Heg—</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, That’s key to hegemony</span>

Adam <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Segal</span>, Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, “Is America Losing Its Edge?,” November/December <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2004</span>, Foreign Affairs, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html?mode=print]]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Today, however, this </span>technologicaledge<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-</span>

AND

get better at fostering technological entrepreneurship <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">at home.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Heg is the single biggest check on multiple nuclear wars, and, it solves the internal link to every conflict scenario.</span>

Robert <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kagan</span><span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">,</span> Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, August/September<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2007 </span>No. 144, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The jostling for status and influence among </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to draw the United States back in again.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Even if heg doesn’t solve conflict, perception of collapse triggers multiple escalatory nuclear wars.</span>

Daniel <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Drezner</span>, Assistant Professor of Political Science at University of Chicago, “The perils of hegemonic power”, 1-6-<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2003</span> [[http://www.danieldrezner.com/archives/2003_01.html]]]



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Michael Ignatieff's cover story on empire in yesterday's </span>

AND

erase the natural emnity that comes with it.

Warming

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Advantage two is Warming-</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Warming is real and human induced – drastic emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Somerville 11</span> – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD

Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research

AND

REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis, BJM



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In early 2007, at the time of </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, reaching near zero well within this century.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, SPS solves warming entirely, it’s comparatively better than all other solutions.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">NSS</span>, National Space Society , “Space Solar Power: Limitless clean energy from space”, 6-3-<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011</span>, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/]])



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The United States and the world need to </span>

AND

nearly all the electrical needs of our planet.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, All other renewable energies not comparable to SPS </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mahan,</span> author for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, No Date Given

(Rob Mahan,

AND

Modified 06/24/2011, as)



Comparing //s//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">pace</span>-//b//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ased</span>//s//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">olar</span>//p//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ower</span> to nuclear

//AND//

//s//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">olar</span>//p//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ower </span>does not compete with food production.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, SPS solves – it’s the only solution and warming is comparatively the largest risk </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hsu 10</span> – PhD in Engineering

Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head

AND

ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It has become increasingly evident that facing and </span>

AND

make a difference<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. (Gendered Language Corrected)</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, The lack of US commitment to Space Solar Power prevents us from addressing our energy needs</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Snead 9</span> (Mike, Aerospace engineering @

AND

/11, 8/10, OST)



**__America’s future energy security is at risk because__**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">as a hedge against potential future national energy scarcity </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Must act now – solves risky and expensive solutions in crisis</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Carnesale 11</span> – Professor of Engineering @ UCLA

Albert, PhD in Nuclear Engineering, UCLA

AND

ACC_Final_Report_Brief04.pdf



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the judgment of this report’s authoring committee</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">prove to be more stringent than actually needed.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, not acting kills billions</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Tickell 08</span>

(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>)



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We need to get </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">us towards a similar hothouse Earth. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, It’s “try or die” – 2012 is the deadline for us to get the only energy option off the ground</span>

Peter J. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Schubert, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span> Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]]</span>)



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Energy Information Agency (EIA) of </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">require a miracle. (gendered language corrected)</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, The plan is an attempt to mitigate the effects of peak oil and prevent economic impacts.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hirsch 5</span> (Robert, PhD Engineering and Physics & Senior Energy Program Advisor for SAIC, “The Inevitable Peaking of World Oil Production” The Atlantic Council of the United States Bulletin Vol. XVI, No. 3 AQB)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The era of plentiful, low-cost </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, but that </span>period of plenty is changing.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Peak oil is inevitable – focus should be on transition</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Farrell and Brandt 6</span> (A. and A., Energy and Resources Group, UC Berkeley, July 4, [[http://iopscience.iop.org/1748-9326/1/1/014004/pdf/1748-9326_1_1_014004.pdf]] AQB)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Much attention has been given to one aspect </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">EUR forecast (Bentley 2002, Campbell 2005). </span>

Solvency

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Contention Four is Solvency:</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Solar Power Satellites are sustainable, cheap, and technologically feasible </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lior</span>, Noam Lior, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011</span> “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931]], Date accessed June 24, 2011



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We have analyzed some economic, environmental and </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">an important alternative to other sustainable energy sources.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Government commitment necessary to spur SSP development and ensure American leadership</span>

Karen Cramer <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Shea, ’10</span>, Masters in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University. Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding? [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]])



//S//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">pace </span>//s//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">olar </span>//p//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ower technology </span>is still in its

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to insur</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">e that our energy needs are met.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, US key to lower cost of SPS—launch and assembly processes </span>

**<span style="color: #262626;">Iannotta</span>**<span style="color: #262626;">, a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Space News Staff Writer</span><span style="color: #262626;">, </span>

<span style="color: #262626;">AND </span>

<span style="color: #262626;">Accessed on June 25, 2011. NP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The concept faces a major barrier, however</span>

AND

-volume assembly line techniques to satellite construction.


=Negative=