[[toc]]
Full text is up for all cards that don't have a link directly to the article.
If you have trouble viewing something, or have cite requests, email [[mailto:devsrivastava999@gmail.com|devsrivastava999@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 

==DSCOVR== 

===1AC - Bronx=== 
====OBSERVATION ONE IS INHERENCY==== 
**Solar activity will increase in 2013, new predictive satellite won’t be funded now.**
**Walsh 9/27/11**
Bryan, Covers Environmental issues for TIME magazine, A Solar Storm Strikes Earth—and Provides a Warning for the Future, TIME Magazine Ecocentric blog, http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2011/09/27/a-solar-storm-strikes-earth%E2%80%94and-provides-a-warning-for-the-future/
But maybe I should start keeping … able to see it coming.

**The Deep Space Climate Observatory or DSCOVR is not funded now and is key to prediction.**
**Lautenbacher '10**
Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html
In addition to events such …<span style="font-size: 10pt;">DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.</span>

====PLAN==== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.**

====CONTENTION TWO IS SOLAR STORMS==== 
**Solar storm coming in 2013 – kills satellites and the grid.**
**Tracton '10**
Steve, Dr. Tracton was a Program Officer for Marine Meteorology at the Office of Naval Research (ONR). Before that, for 31 years he was a research scientist at the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP). Dr. Tracton is recognized internationally as a principal agent and advocate in development, application, and use of operational ensemble prediction systems and strategies for dealing with forecast uncertainty “Do Solar Storms Threaten Life as We Know It?” 4/6 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://voices.washingtonpost.com/capitalweathergang/2009/04/do_solar_storms_threaten_civil.html]]</span>
As severe as the possible …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Are We Ready for Solar Max?" </span>

**Early warning of storms solves blackouts and satellite failure.**
**Phillips '10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tony, production editor of Science @ NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]</span>
Earth and space are about …take this very seriously indeed."

=====SCENARIO ONE IS MELTDOWNS===== 

**Storms kill the grid and cause nuclear meltdown. Impact is extinction.**
**International Business Times 9/14/11**
International Business Times, Mike Adams – author and journalist, Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm
(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 …into a total meltdown simultaneously.

=====SCENARIO TWO IS THE ECONOMY===== 
**The 2013 storms will kill satellites and the economy – plasma erosion.**
**Knapp 9/14/11**
Alex, futurism columnist for Forbes, A Powerful Solar Storm Could Render Satellites Inoperable For Years, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/09/14/a-powerful-solar-storm-could-render-satellites-inoperable-for-years/]]</span> JG
Last October, around Halloween, the …diminish the impacts of such storms.


**Collapse of the economy causes nuclear war**
**Mead '9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter Russell. Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. 2/4/9. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So far, such half-hearted...</span>we may still have to fight.

**Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict**
**Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, '10**
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how...debate and deserves more attention.

====CONTENTION THREE IS CLIMATE CHANGE==== 
**Warming is irreversible – CO2 emissions and feedbacks.**
**Solomon et all, NOAA, '9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span>
Over the 20th century, …<span style="font-size: 10pt;">level of carbon dioxide reached</span>.
**Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in militayr response capabilites - decapitates effective interventionism**
**Rogers and Gulledge '10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf</span>
Climate change will likely exacerbate …prepared to meet future challenges.
**The only way climate data is actionable is if we have data**
**Rogers and Gulledge '10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf</span>
Given the proliferation of new …secu­rity professionals need to ask<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**DSCOVR solves - critical to calibrate climate models**
**Williams '8**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should …</span>great boost<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the 1970s. </span>

**That’s key to solve Arctic conflict.**
**Yalowitz '8**
Kenneth S., Director, Dickey Center for International Understanding @ Dartmouth College, The Arctic Climate Change and Security Policy Conference, December 2008, http://carnegieendowment.org/files/arctic_climate_change.pdf
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As the scientific understanding of …between the science and policy communitie</span>s.

**The US and NATO will fight a war with Russia over the Arctic – oil resources, Northern passage, Russian interests.**
**Rozoff '9**
Rick, author and geopolitical analyst. he is editor of Stop NATO and a frequent contributor to Global Research, Militarization of the Arctic. Canada: Battle Line In East-West Conflict Over The Arctic, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=13836
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US and NATO designs on the …</span>
profile in the High North." [33]

**Nuclear extinction**
**Bostrom '2**
Nick Bostrum, PhD faculty of philosophy at Oxford, “Existential Risks
Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” Published in the Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A much greater existential risk …where to focus our efforts</span>

==Pedagogical Colonialism== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">1AC - Capitol Classic</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
====<span style="font-family: arial;">OBSERVATION 1: WELCOME TO 1856</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: arial; text-align: justify;">**TIME FOR A HISTORY LESSON**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: arial;">The impacts of colonization outweigh any possible benefits</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: arial;">This is a systematic defense of non-European civilizations.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: arial;">Cesaire '72</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">Aime –</span> //<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">DISCOURSE ON COLONIALISM</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">; translated by Joan Pinkham. This version published by Monthly Review Press: New York and London, 1972. Originally published as Discours sur le colonialism by Ediions Presence Africaine, 1955. DS.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Truly, there are stains ...</span><span style="font-family: arial;"> non-European civilizations.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Therefore Jake and I advocate the rejection of all policy options and pedagogical options for the extension of state power in favor of a politics for the decolonization of the mind. We do this through a reflection on our personal experiences so we can gain education and expand the ongoing process of epistemological growth.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: arial;">The 1AC is a rejection of all that solidifies colonialism</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: arial;">Cesaire '72</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">Aime –</span> //<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">DISCOURSE ON COLONIALISM</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">; translated by Joan Pinkham. This version published by Monthly Review Press: New York and London, 1972. Originally published as Discours sur le colonialism by Ediions Presence Africaine, 1955. DS.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">So the real ...</span><span style="font-family: arial;"> watchdogs of colonialism.</span>

====<span style="font-family: arial;">OBSERVATION 2: 2011</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: arial;">Discussion of colonialism is potent in the context of societal response to space exploration</span>**
**<span style="font-family: arial;">Lively 2K</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11px;">Adam-studied history and philosophy in England and London; phD student @ BurBack College University of London; //Masks: Blackness, Race, and the Imagination//; p. 1-2. DB.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">On 12 October...</span><span style="font-family: arial;">beyond the limits of knowledge.</span>

**<span style="font-family: arial;">Debate must make the difficult change to a multicultural education through self examination and change or risk the extinction of debate.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: arial;">Valdivia-Sutherland '98</span>**
<span style="font-family: verdana; font-size: 11px;">Cynthia-; “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensic Programs”; National Communication Association’s 84th Annual Meeting, November 22; [[http://www.phirhopi.org/prp/spkrpts5.2/sutherland.htm]]. DB.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">It has been argued ...</span><span style="font-family: arial;"> forensic multiculturalism.</span>


**<span style="font-family: arial;">Debate has served as pedagogical colonialism-the 1AC is a performative transformation of debate into a tool for the decoloonization of the mind.</span>**
**Dascal '7**
Marcelo-PhD epistimology and literature and professor of philosophy at TelAviv University; "Colonizing and Decolonizing Minds"; p.1-5. DS.

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Whereas the most visible...</span><span style="font-family: arial;">and </span>//<span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">utility</span></span>//<span style="font-family: arial;"> derive.</span>

===<span style="font-family: arial;">2AC - Framework/Topicality</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Debate is a place for the voice of the oppressed – allows us the question the foundations of society.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Warner and Bruschke ‘3</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ede-University of Loiusville, John-CSU Fullerton, “GONE ON DEBATING:” COMPETITIVE ACADEMIC DEBATE AS A TOOL OF EMPOWERMENT FOR URBAN AMERICA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">These arguments are theoretical; they cannot speak as powerfully as the voices of those who have experienced both the oppression of an education system failing from the“unique synergy between lack of funding and anachronistic pedagogical practices.” Ed Lee, who now holds a Master’s degree and works for an Urban Debate League in San Francisco, recounts his experience as an urban debater: Educated in the public school system of inner-city Atlanta, my high school experience was tragically similar to the one depicted above. My savior, like many others, was the Atlanta Urban Debate League. It provided the opportunity to question the nefarious rites of passage(prison, drugs, and drinking) that seem to be uniquely debilitating to individuals in the poor urban communities. In enclaves of poverty, there is also an undercurrent of nihilism and negativity that eats away at the soul of the community. Adults are hopeless. Children follow their lead and become hopeless. The solution is to offer people a choice beyond minimum wage or prison. Urban DebateLeagues provide that. Debating delivers a galaxy of alternatives and opportunity for those who are only offered hopelessness and were unnecessary elements of our culture that existed becaused they (predominantly) go unquestioned. Questioning the very nature of our existence is at the heart of the debate process. I am left wondering what would occur if debate became as compulsory in inner-city educational culture as football and basketball? Imagine graduating from high school each year millions of underprivileged teenagers with the ability to articulate their needs, the needs of others, and the ability to offer solutions. I am convinced that someone would be forced to listen. Urban debateLeagues offers a pedagogical tool that simultaneously opens the mind to alternatives and empowers students to take control of their lives. Half of the time, students are disseminating information and forming arguments about complex philosophical and political issues. In the other half, they answer the arguments of others. Self-reflexivity is an inherent part of the activity. Debating gives students the ability to articulate the partiality of all critical assessments. Contemporary educational techniques teach one side of the issue and universalize it as the only “truth.” Debate forces students to evaluate both sides, and determine their independent contextualized truth. Additionally, unlike the current pedagogy, debate allows everything to be questioned…The ability to question subjectivities presented as the objective truth makes debate uniquely empowering for individuals disenfranchised by the current system. It teaches students to interrogate their own institutionalized neglect and the systemic unhindered oppression of others. It is one of the few venues we are able to question authority. (pp. 95-6) Given the possibilitiesan urban debate program presents, it is worth examining the practical possibilities for a revitalization ofurban debate. One thing is clear: Urban debate is under-utilized at present. Many urban debate programs died in the late sixties and early seventies as the result of massive budget cuts. As tax revenues diminished in educational coffers, debate programs, always treated as just one of the “extracurricular” activities, got lost in efforts to stop the institutional bleeding by “doing more with less.” While college debate is more vibrant, as early as 1975 major college debate organizations were acknowledging the lack of diversity in intercollegiate forensics. Little has changed over the past twenty-five years; minority participation remains exceptionally low at the two major national policy debate tournaments, the Cross Examination Debate Association championship and the National Debate Tournament (Hill, 1997; Stepp, 1997) </span>


=Negative - Topicality= 
==Resolved== 
===1NC=== 
**The word Resolved means to declare by a formal vote**
**Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, 1998**
(dictionary.com)
Resolved: 5. <span style="font-size: 13px;">To express, as an opinion or determination, by resolution and vote; to declare or decide by a formal vote; -- followed by a clause;</span> as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).


==It's== 
===1NC=== 
**The word it's implies possession**
**American Heritage Dictionary '9**
The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, 2009, Fourth Edition, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/its
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">its (ĭts) adj. The possessive form of it. Used as a modifier before a noun: The airline canceled its early flight to New York.</span></span>


=Negative - Counterplans= 
==UN CP== 
===1NC=== 
**The UN is the optimal inter-regional forum for space activities.**
**COPOUS '9**
Committee on the peaceful uses of Outer Space; "Towards a UN Space Policy";
[[http://www.oosa.unvienna.org/pdf/limited/l/AC105_2009_CRP12E.pdf]]
The principles and practice of a UN Space policy cannot be realized if there is no appropriate and adequate means. At the moment the UNCOPUOUS as well as other international organizations do not possess sufficient budgets and institutions to implement a UN Space Policy. It is therefore important to establish credible means for achieving the goals of a UN Space Policy<span class="styleboldunderline">.These means could be achieved if the UN were to: a) </span>Encourage member states to cooperate in the establishment of regional space agencies<span class="styleboldunderline"> for developing regional space programmes.</span>Regional space agencies and the regional space programmes are of particular importance<span class="styleboldunderline"> because </span>geographically proximate States can develop and share assets<span class="styleboldunderline"> to address the same concerns and issues</span>. For instance, <span class="styleboldunderline">they can share a single satellite in geostationary orbit for satellite communications</span>, broadcasting and meteorology. It would be highly useful to establish a common regional Space Policy for using the same satellites for common purposes, which would promote regional cooperation and maximize the use of limited resources such as orbital slots. <span class="styleboldunderline">Furthermore, regional space agencies can provide satellite images which may be shared by the Member States for cooperative security and confidence building measures. </span>The United Nations could also play a role as an inter-regional forum for exchanging views and interests from these regional space agencies.

=Negative - Kritiks= 

==Race K== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">MAKE THEM DEFEND SILENCE</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">Our exposition will bring race to the forefront of the discussion and uncover the alliance between the submerged or silent rhetoric of whiteness.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">Dr. Crenshaw '97</span>**
<span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px;">Carrier-Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; //Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence//; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">Ideological rhetorical criticism reveals the vested interests protected by a particular rhetorical framework for understanding social order</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">. It </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">assists the search for alternatives to oppression and enables us to engage in right action </span>
<span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">for good reasons</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> (Wander, “The Ideological” 2, 18). </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">While cultural and ethnographic approaches that name the complexities of our racialized social location make the rhetoric of whiteness visible and displace its centrality</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> (Nakayama and Krizek), </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">an ideological approach helps to uncover the alliance between the submerged or silent rhetoric of whiteness and white material privilege</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">. </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">Ideological rhetorical criticism reveals how the public political rhetoric of whiteness relies upon a silent denial of white privilege to rationalize judicial, legislative, and executive decisions that protect the material interests of white people at the expense of people of color. Beyond the realm of “everyday” discourse, public political actors often engage a submerged or silent rhetoric of whiteness to protect white privilege, and their arguments are authorized by the powerful institutions from which they speak. Those authorized arguments in turn sanction the rhetorical frameworks through which white individuals make sense of and justify their privileged social status</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> (van Dijk; Wellman). </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">Technology is the new American religion. Their fables of technological utopianism within the NASA mythos are fueled by white supremacy and evade criticism to prevent change.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">Dinerstein '6 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">Joel-Assistant Professor of English at Tulane University;“Technology and Its Discontents: On the Verge of the Posthuman” American Quarterly, Volume 58, Number 3, Septermber 2006, pp. 569-570)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">Immediately after 9/11, a Middle East correspondent for The Nation summarized the coming war on terrorism as "[their] theology versus [our] technology, the suicide bomber against the nuclear power." <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v058/58.3dinerstein.html#FOOT1|1]]</span> His statement missed the point: </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">technology is the American theology.</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> For Americans, </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">it is </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">not the Christian God but</span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;"> technology that structures the American sense of power and revenge, the nation's abstract sense of well-being, its arrogant sense of superiority, and its righteous justification for global dominance.</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> In the introduction to Technological Visions, Marita Sturken and Douglas Thomas declare that "in the popular imagination, technology is often synonymous with the future," but it is more accurate to say that technology is synonymous with faith in the future—both in the future as a better world and as one in which the United States bestrides the globe as a colossus. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v058/58.3dinerstein.html#FOOT2|2]]</span> </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">Technology has long been the unacknowledged source of European and Euro-American superiority within modernity, and its underlying mythos always traffics in what James W. Carey once called "secular religiosity."</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v058/58.3dinerstein.html#FOOT3|3]]</span> Lewis Mumford called the American belief system "mechano-idolatry" as early as 1934; a few years later he deemed it our "mechano-centric religion." David F. Noble calls this ideology "</span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">the religion of technology</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">" in a work of the same name that </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">traces its European roots to a doctrine that combines millenarianism, rationalism, and Christian redemption in the writings of monks, explorers, inventors, and NASA scientists.</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> If we take into account the functions of religion and not its rituals</span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">, it is not a deity who insures the American future but new technologies:</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> smart bombs in the Gulf War, Viagra and Prozac in the pharmacy, satellite TV at home. </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">It is not social justice or equitable economic distribution that will reduce hunger, greed, and poverty, but fables of abundance and the rhetoric of technological utopianism. The United States is in thrall to "techno-fundamentalism</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">," in Siva Vaidhyanathan's apt phrase; to Thomas P. Hughes, "</span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">a god named technology has possessed Americans</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">." Or, as public policy scholar Edward Wenk Jr. sums it up, "we are . . . inclined to equate technology with civilization [itself]." <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v058/58.3dinerstein.html#FOOT4|4]]</span> [End Page 569] </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">Technology as an abstract concept functions as a white mythology. Yet scholars of whiteness rarely engage technology as a site of dominant white cultural practices (except in popular culture), and scholars of technology often sidestep the subtext of whiteness within this mythos. The underlying ideology and cultural practices of technology were central to American studies scholarship in its second and third generations, but the field has marginalized this critical framework; it is as if these works of (mostly) white men are now irrelevant to the field's central concerns of race, class, gender, sexuality, and ethnic identity on the one hand, and power, empire, and nation on the other.</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> In this essay I will integrate some older works into the field's current concerns to situate the current posthuman discourse within </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">an unmarked white tradition of technological utopianism</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> that also </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">functions as a form of social evasion</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">. By the conclusion, I hope to have shown that the posthuman is an escape from the panhuman. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">The only acceptable policy option is a rejection of racism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">Memmi 2K</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">Albert-</span>Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris; <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">//RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission, probably never achieved, yet for this very reason, it is a struggle to be undertaken without surcease and without concessions. One cannot be indulgent toward racism. One cannot even let the monster in the house, especially not in a mask. To give it merely a foothold means to augment the bestial part in us and in other people which is to diminish what is human. To accept the racist universe to the slightest degree is to endorse fear, injustice, and violence. It is to accept the persistence of the dark history in which we still largely live. It is to agree that the outsider will always be a possible victim </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">(and which [person] man is not [themself] himself an outsider relative to someone else?). </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">Racism illustrates in sum, the inevitable negativity of the condition of the dominated;</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> that is it illuminates in a certain sense the entire human condition. </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">The anti-racist struggle, difficult though it is, and always in question, is nevertheless one of the prologues to the ultimate passage from animality to humanity. In that sense, we cannot fail to rise to the racist challenge. However, it remains true that one’s moral conduct only emerges from a choice: one has to want it. It is a choice among other choices, and always debatable in its foundations and its consequences.</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> Let us say, broadly speaking, that the choice to conduct oneself morally is the condition for the establishment of a human order for which racism is the very negation. This is almost a redundancy. </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">One cannot found a moral order, let alone a legislative order, on racism because racism signifies the exclusion of the other and his or her subjection to violence and domination. From an ethical point of view,</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> if one can deploy a little religious language, </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">racism is “the truly capital sin.”</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">fn22 It is not an accident that almost all of humanity’s spiritual traditions counsel respect for the weak, for orphans, widows, or strangers. It is not just a question of theoretical counsel respect for the weak, for orphans, widows or strangers. It is not just a question of theoretical morality and disinterested commandments. Such unanimity in the safeguarding of the other suggests the real utility of such sentiments. </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">All things considered, we have an interest in banishing injustice, because injustice engenders violence and death. Of course, this is debatable. There are those who think that if one is strong enough, the assault on and oppression of others is permissible. But no one is ever sure of remaining the strongest. One day, perhaps, the roles will be reversed. All unjust society contains within itself the seeds of its own death.</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> It is probably smarter to treat others with respect so that they treat you with respect. “Recall,” says the bible, “that you were once a stranger in Egypt,” which means both that you ought to respect the stranger because you were a stranger yourself and that you risk becoming once again someday. </span><span style="font-family: arial; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">It is an ethical and a practical appeal – indeed, it is a contract, however implicit it might be. In short, the refusal of racism is the condition for all theoretical and practical morality. Because, in the end, the ethical choice commands the political choice. A just society must be a society accepted by all. If this contractual principle is not accepted, then only conflict, violence, and destruction will be our lot. If it is accepted, we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

===2NC=== 
====A2: Obama Solves==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">**FALSE - Obama is not the end to White Supremacy and Colorism**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">**Chinweizu '8**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Chinweizu Ibekwe-PhD from SUNY Buffalo (demanded in protest with dissertation committee); //Barack Obama: The Death of White Supremacy? A Discussion with Amiri Baraka, Chinweizu, Floyd Hayes. Lloyd McCarthy, Jonathan Scott, and others//; posted March 1st; CHICKEN BONES: A Journal For Literary and Artistic African American Themes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nathanielturner.com/barackobamadeathofwhitesupremacy.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">We need to ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Africanism and Black Consciousness.”</span>

====A2: Permutation==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Turn - Strategic Colorblindess</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Strategic colorblindness is the avoidance of talking about race or even acknowledging racial difference in an effort to avoid the appearance of bias and is one instrument in the TOOLBOX of whites to appear non-prejudiced.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Apfelbaum et al '8</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">APFELBAUM, SOMMERS Dpt of Pyschology @ Tufts U. & NORTON Harvard Business School 2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Evan P.-, Samuel R.- & Michael I.-; Seeing Race & Seeming Racist? Evaluating Strategic Colorblindness in Social Interaction; JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PYSCHOLOGY; Vol. 95, No. 4; copyrighted by the American Psychological Association; <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.apa.org/journals/releases/psp954918.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">As this anecdote ... of interpersonal outcomes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">“Colorblindness” is a ruse that guarantees the continuation of racism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Espinoza and Harris '97 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">/Leslie and Angela, Associate Prof. of Law @ Boston College, and Professor of Law @ UC Berkeley, California Law Review, October, Lexis/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">Critical race scholars ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> the whim of whites.</span>

====A2: Race Talk Bad==== 

**Their turns do not assume institutionalized forms of priveledge**
**Randall '8**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Vernillia-professor of Law @ the University of Dayton, web editor of RACE, RACISM AND THE LAW; //Racism v. Colorism: A Wrong Headed Debate//; Web last updated January 10, 2008 (1997);</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Recently, I have ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> in health care.</span>

== == 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]