Note: Nosotros somos Wiki noobs. Lo siento (translated: We are Wiki noobs. Sorry.)

DSCOVR Aff - Georgetown, Bronx, Cap Classic
Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its exploration and/or the development of space by launching the Deep Space Climate Observatory

Contention One is The Status Quo
No funding for DSCOVR
Turner 7/13 [SpaceNews staff writer, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Space Climate Probe, Satellite Constellation” http://www.space.com/12259-house-panel-space-climate-satellites-funding.html]
The U.S. House Appropriations Committee...provide funding for either.

Contention Two is Solar Storms

The sun will become extremely active in 2013
Moskowitz 8/11 [Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,” http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]
Solar flares like the huge one that erupted...and we'll get more used to them.

And Early warning is vital to damage mitigation and ACE is the best satellite we have now
Phillips 10 [Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]
Earth and space are about to come into contact..."We take this very seriously indeed."

But That Fails
A. ACE can’t detect anything
Lautenbacher 10 [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]
Efforts to predict this space weather...just when you need it most.

B. ACE cannot withstand a super storm and will fail to warn us
CARV 5/18 [Concept Activity Research Vault, 5/18/2011 develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, Satellite outages now critical data problem, http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]
The Advanced Composition (ACE) spacecraft satellite...ACE has exceeded its NASA calculated life expectance.

And DSCOVR solves
Clark 11 [Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]
The White House is requesting $47 million...Forecasters predict the next solar maximum in 2013.

And DSCOVR is scientifically vital to solar weather prediction
Lautenbacher 10 [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]
The DSCOVR (Deep Space Climate Observatory), replacement spacecraft...cannot afford to let DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.

A solar storm would destroy the economy in two ways
A. Blackouts
Butt 10 [Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]
For the reasons outlined above...chronic shortages for multiple years are possible.

B. Communications Infrastructure and GPS
IBT 11’[International Business Times, “Severe Solar Storms Could Disrupt Earth This Decade: NOAA” http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/194166/20110808/solar-storms-severe-solar-storms-earth-paralyse-carrington-event.htm]
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), a federal agency that focuses on the condition of the oceans...flares around 2013 could enable extremely high radiation levels.

And The magnitude of this internal is huge
Johnson & Hudson, ‘8 – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination
Commercially, the economy of the United States is heavily dependent on...without pay-at-the-pump capability

And Economic collapse leads to great power wars
Mead 9** Walter Russell. Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. 2/4/9. http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2.
So far, such half-hearted experiments...back on track, we may still have to fight


And Satellite malfunctions are indistinguishable – a harsh space environment will trigger an accidental war

Coffelt 5 – Colonel in the US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/)






==== ==== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__AFF -ORS__</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan – The United States federal government should provide all necessary funding and support for the development and the deployment of operationally responsive space capabilities <span style="background-color: white;">which entails a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development and architecture, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, space situational awareness, and hardening of military satellites.</span></span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">**Advantage One – Hegemony**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Multiple threats to US Space assets now – __only__ deterrence solves</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Bruce W. MacDonald, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program with the USIP Center for Conflict Analysis and Prevention, served as senior director of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the US, China, Space Weapons and U.S. Security, Council Special Report No. 38, September 2008, [[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=o0GkabrNftIC&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=defensive+space+weapons&ots=OTkmlH1rBW&sig=9u5wh9QaeAWplSd9Q6Pc9lTgo5g#v=onepage&q=defensive%20space%20weapons&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=o0GkabrNftIC&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=defensive+space+weapons&ots=OTkmlH1rBW&sig=9u5wh9QaeAWplSd9Q6Pc9lTgo5g#v=onepage&q=defensive%20space%20weapons&f=false]],)</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While China ... and miscalculation.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ORS key to rapid reconstitution of space assets – deters space attacks and solves accidents</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Flores 07</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Peter, Major in the USAF, “UNTAPPED POTENTIAL: THE INFLUENCE OF INTERNATIONAL REGIMES AND ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE ON THE NEAR-SPACE CONCEPT”, June, pdf, )</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today, space ... </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">case, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">hours.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only a risk of solvency- a space war or space attacks will stop all use of space</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Forden, 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If the...__of years.__</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ORS is key to effective deterrence strategies</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Doggrell 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Les Doggrell, Senior Project Engineer with Aerospace Corporation. A Vision for the Future of Military Space , Air and Space Power Journal. Summer 2006. NP. [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/doggrell.html]] )</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">IN FUTURE ... </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">satellite-navigation systems</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Any attack or accident would destroy power projection and global leadership</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Farfour and Yee 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (George R. Farfour and Kenneth E. Yee, commander, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development Center, at Schriever AFB in Colorado and a National Defense Intelligence College and operations officer, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development Center at Schriever AFB in Colorado. No Space Capabilities—No Joint Fight, High Frontier Volume 4 Number. February 2008. Pages 38-39.[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080226-050.pdf]] )</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taken together, ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> by comparison.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">And, hegemonic decline leads to transition wars – the impact is extinction</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Nye 90 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Joe, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and former Dean of the Kennedy School at Harvard and one of the most influential and respected contemporary IR scholars, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">pg 17)</span>__
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Perceptions of ... may end.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">United States Hegemony solves all conflicts</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Bradley, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at, The National Interest, December)</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">A </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">grand</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> of a blitzkrieg.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike China—that escalates</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tellis, Ph.D., 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Ph.D. from U Chicago, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Finally, the ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> __further misperception.__</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact is extinction</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">**Straits Times 2k** [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jun 25, LEXIS]</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">THE high-intensity ... everything else</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ORS is key to long term space superiority</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">SPACE-X 04</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (AMERICAN SPACE TRANSPORT COMPANY, “Inside the Pentagon”, [[http://www.spacex.com/media.php?page=31]])</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Experiments using ... to this view.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Effective space deterrence solves global deterrence and stability</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Forrest E. Morgan, Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. 2010. Page 14-15 [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf]] )</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although this ...and stability.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x---Advantage 2 is Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance systems]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Advantage 2 is Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance systems</span></span>==== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Many ISR systems are failing and cannot continue to operate—ORS is key to enhance ISR, create an effective ISR system, and fix the current system</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Petraeus 10.</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(David H. Petraeus, former commander of U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Statement of General David H. Petraeus, U.S. army commander, U.S. Central command, Before the Senate Armed Service Committee on the Posture of U.S. central command, Senate and Armed Services Committee. 3/16/10, page 47.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://wenku.baidu.com/view/c4866174f46527d3240ce069.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Detailed and ... </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">communication systems.</span>__
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ORS allows for a complete and efficient ISR system---this isn’t possible in the status quo</span>**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rao et al. 08</span>** ( Anvil V. Rao, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. A Concept for Operationally Responsive Space Mission Planning Using Aeroassisted Orbital Transfer, AIAA. April 28–May 1, 2008, Pages 2-3)</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The current ... and hurricanes</span><span class="Underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14pt;">Scenario 1 is Iraq</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Iraqi commanders use the U.S.’s ISR</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harris 09.</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Barry Harris, staff writer. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=11396&pageid=&pagename=|Stabilizing Iraq Provides Intelligence Lessons for Afghanistan]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, The Cutting Edge. 6/15/09. NP </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=11396&pageid=20&pagename=Security]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The robust...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11.5pt;"> in Afghanistan.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ISR helps the Iraqi military deter insurgent activity.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zachary 09.</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Stacia Zachary, USAFCENT Combat Camera News Team. Iraqi Air Force brings ISR capabilities online, U.S. Air Force Central. 8/30/09. NP.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.afcent.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123164549]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;"> )</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">Intelligence</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;"> collection ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__insurgent activity.__ </span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ISR solves for Iraqi instability---solves drug trafficking, weapons trafficking, and insurgencies</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Downs 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Michael L. Downs, Lieutenant Colonel of the U.S. Air Force. Rethinking the Combined Force Air Component Commander's Intelligence, Surveillance, and</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">Reconnaissance Approach to Counterinsurgency, Air and Space Power Journal. 9/1/08, NP)</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">To counter ...__and conduct.__</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Insurgency attacks create Iraqi instability </span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Jha et al. 10</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Manoj K. Jha, a professor at Morgan State University. Modeling the Insurgent Activities with a Geographic Information System: A Case Study from Iraq, The World Scientific and Engineering Academy and Society. 1/19/10. Page 214. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.wseas.us/e-library/conferences/2010/Harvard/CISST/CISST-38.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The strategies...</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">about something</span>__
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Internal instability in Iraq sparks regional wars, terrorism, and collapses the global economy</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baker and Hamilton, 08.</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(James Baker and Lee Hamilton, both Co-Chairs of the Iraq Study Group. The Iraq Study Group Report, The Baker Institute. 4/21/08. Page 28.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bakerinstitute.org/publications/iraqstudygroup_findings.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Continuing violence ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> his country.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorism leads to extinction</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Sean **Hannity**, Fox News Political Analyst, **2004**</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism, pg. 6]</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But the... </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">than ever.</span>__
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Middle East wars cause global nuclear war</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steinbach 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(John, nuclear specialist at the Center for Research on Globalization, Center for Research on Globalization, March,[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html]], AD 7/7/11) AV</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, the ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> world conflagration</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">."</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x-Pedagogical Colonialism]]Pedagogical Colonialism</span>== 
==== ==== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic]][[#Affirmative-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic]]1AC - Capitol Classic</span>=== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">We the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this constitution for the United States of America.</span>**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">We the people of the Debate Community, in order to form a more perfect society, establish just educational practices, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the curses of colonialism and genocide to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this resolution for the people of the debate community.</span>**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the earth's mesosphere.</span>**</span>
==== ==== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic-OBSERVATION 1: WELCOME TO 1856]][[#Affirmative-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic-OBSERVATION 1: WELCOME TO 1856]]<span style="font-family: arial;">OBSERVATION 1: WELCOME TO 1856</span></span>==== 
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">**TIME FOR A HISTORY LESSON**</span>
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Look deep inside, actualize</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">my body is a product of colonialism and genocide</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">it comes from a place my so called people call "Bharat";</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">From a place the government recognizes as the Republic of India,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But back in the day it was refereed to the British Raj.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Slaves to the British occupation, who stripped the land of natural resources.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">People speak as if it's over but the effects are still felt today.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Look deep inside, actualize</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My mind is a product of colonialism and genocide.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It comes from a place outsiders call "debate";</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It comes from a place the inner circle calls debate camp, the tabroom, the 1AC, the neg block, the 3NR, the RFD< the cards you read, team practice, the hallway, the pairings, the rumors; the awards ceremony.</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Slaves to the current set of accepted knowledge, any outsider is stripped of the ballot where the effects are felt in one's life.</span>**</span>
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">1996 was the time where I had no choice in my birth.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">1856 was the time where my ancestors chose to fight back against the crimes of colonial capitalism.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">We were portrayed as brown, and called "Hindus" which translated to "dirty criminal" in some Western launguage.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The masses were hungry when they came to plunder, steal, and colonize</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">with the people and the land both getting raped.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">When they came to the country, to deal out our mellow fate.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">In a time where there was no regulation, red or yellow tape.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">With or without hate,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Demons hide,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Deep inside,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">So many sleepless nights</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">reading my</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">speech and I'm</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">speaking right</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">to win that prize.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">See my eyes,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They're bleeding, right?</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The reason's why</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">the people away from my life</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">seem to die.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">"No need to fight,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">If you really want a peaceful life,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">just be polite."</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I'm really not surprised,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">that when they tell the lie</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">that I'm a terrorist,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I tell them this:</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">the relevance:</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They came here in search of the youth fountain</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">but the ancient crimes of Europe go</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">excused, forgotten, and unfounded.</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">The impacts of colonization outweigh any possible benefits</span>**</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">This is a systematic defense of non-European civilizations.</span>**</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">Cesaire '72</span>**</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">Aime –</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> //<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">DISCOURSE ON COLONIALISM</span>//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">; translated by Joan Pinkham. This version published by Monthly Review Press: New York and London, 1972. Originally published as Discours sur le colonialism by Ediions Presence Africaine, 1955. DS.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Truly, there are stains that it is beyond the power of man to wipe out and that can never be fully expiated. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">But let us speak about the colonized. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I see clearly what colonization has destroyed: the wonderful Indian civilizations - and neither Deterding nor Royal Dutch nor Standard Oil will ever console me for the Aztecs and the Incas. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I see clearly the civilizations; condemned to perish at a future date, into which it has introduced a principle of ruin: the South Sea islands, Nigeria, Nyasaland. I see less clearly the contributions it has made. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Security? Culture? The rule of law? In the meantime, I look around and wherever there are colonizers and colonized face to face, I see force, brutality, cruelty, sadism, conflict, and, in a parody of education, the hasty manufacture of a few thousand subordinate functionaries, "boys," artisans, office clerks, and interpreters necessary for the smooth operation of business. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I spoke of contact. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Between colonizer and colonized there is room only for forced labor, intimidation, pressure, the police, taxation, theft, rape, compulsory crops, contempt, mistrust, arrogance, self-complacency, swinishness, brainless elites, degraded masses. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">No human contact, but relations of domination and submission which turn the colonizing man into a class-room monitor, an army sergeant, a prison guard, a slave driver, and the indigenous man into an instrument of production. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">My turn to state an equation: colonization = "thing-ification." </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I hear the storm. They talk to me about progress, about "achievements," diseases cured, improved standards of living. </span>
==== ==== 
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">am talking about societies drained of their essence, cultures trampled underfoot, institutions undermined, lands confiscated, religions smashed, magnificent artistic creations destroyed, extraordinary //<span style="font-family: Arial;">possibilities </span>//wiped out. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They throw facts at my head, statistics, mileages of roads, canals, and railroad tracks. </span>
==== ==== 
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">am talking about thousands of men sacrificed to the Congo-Ocean2. I am talking about those who, as I write this, are digging the harbor of Abidjan by hand. I am talking about millions of men torn from their gods, their land, their habits, their life-from life, from the dance, from wisdom.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I am talking about millions of men in whom fear has been cunningly instilled, who have been taught to have an inferiority complex, to tremble, kneel, despair, and behave like flunkeys. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They dazzle me with the tonnage of cotton or cocoa that has been exported, the acreage that has been planted with olive trees or grapevines.</span>
==== ==== 
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">am talking about natural //<span style="font-family: Arial;">economies </span>//that have been disrupted - harmonious and viable economies adapted to the indigenous population - about food crops destroyed, malnutrition permanently introduced, agricultural development oriented solely toward the benefit of the metropolitan countries, about the looting of products, the looting of raw materials. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They pride themselves on abuses eliminated. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I too talk about abuses, but what I say is that on the old ones - very real - they have superimposed others - very detestable. They talk to me about local tyrants brought to reason; but I note that in general the old tyrants get on very well with the new ones, and that there has been established between them, to the detriment of the people, a circuit of mutual services and complicity. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">They talk to me about civilization. I talk about proletarianization and mystification. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">For my part, I make a systematic defense of the non-European civilizations.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Therefore Kevin and I advocate the rejection of all policy options and pedagogical options for the extension of state power in favor of a politics for the decolonization of the mind. We do this through a reflection on our personal experiences so we can gain education and expand the ongoing process of epistemological growth.</span>**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: arial;">The 1AC is a rejection of all that solidifies colonialism</span>****<span style="font-family: arial;">Cesaire '72</span>**</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">Aime –</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> //<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">DISCOURSE ON COLONIALISM</span>//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">; translated by Joan Pinkham. This version published by Monthly Review Press: New York and London, 1972. Originally published as Discours sur le colonialism by Ediions Presence Africaine, 1955. DS.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">So the real problem, you say, is to return to them. No, I repeat. We are not men for whom it is a question of "either-or." For us, the problem is not to make a utopian and sterile attempt to repeat the past, but to go beyond. It is not a dead society that we want to revive. We leave that to those who go in for exoticism. Nor is it the present colonial society that we wish to prolong, the most putrid carrion that ever rotted under the sun. It is a new society that we must create, with the help of all our brother slaves, a society rich with all the productive power of modern times, warm with all the fraternity of olden days. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">For some examples showing that this is possible, we can look to the Soviet Union. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">But let us return to M. Jules Romains: </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">One cannot say that the petty bourgeois has never read anything. On the contrary, he has read everything, devoured everything. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Only, his brain functions after the fashion of certain elementary types of digestive systems. It filters. And the filter lets through only what can nourish the thick skin of the bourgeois' clear conscience. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Before the arrival of the French in their country, the Vietnamese were people of an old culture, exquisite and refined. To recall this fact upsets the digestion of the Banque d'Indochine. Start the forgetting machine! </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">These Madagascans who are being tortured today, less than a century ago were poets, artists, administrators? Shhhhh! Keep your lips buttoned! And silence falls, silence as deep as a safe! Fortunately, there are still the Negroes. Ah! the Negroes! Let's talk about the Negroes!</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">All right, let's talk about them. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">About the Sudanese empires? About the bronzes of Benin? Shango sculpture? That's all right with me; it will give us a change from all the sensationally bad art that adorns so many European capitals. About African music. Why not? </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">And about what the first explorers said, what they saw… Not those who feed at the company mangers! But the d'Elbees, the Marchais, the Pigafettas! And then Frobenius! Say, you know who he was, Frobenius? And we read together: "Civilized to the marrow of their bones! The idea of the barbaric Negro is a European invention." </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The petty bourgeois doesn't want to hear any more. With a twitch of his ears he flicks the idea away. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The idea, an annoying fly. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Therefore, comrade, you will hold as enemies - loftily, lucidly, consistently - not only sadistic governors and greedy bankers, not only prefects who torture and colonists who flog, not only corrupt, check-licking politicians and subservient judges, but likewise and for the same reason, venomous journalists, goitrous academicians, wreathed in dollars and stupidity, ethnographers who go in for metaphysics, presumptuous Belgian theologians, chattering intellectuals born stinking out of the thigh of Nietzsche, the paternalists, the embracers, the corrupters, the back-slappers, the lovers of exoticism, the dividers, the agrarian sociologists, the hoodwinkers, the hoaxers, the hot-air artists, the humbugs, and in general, all those who, performing their functions in the sordid division of labor for the defense of Western bourgeois society, try in diverse ways and by infamous diversions to split up the forces of Progress-even if it means denying the very possibility of Progress - all of them tools of capitalism, all of them, openly or secretly, supporters of plundering colonialism, all of them responsible, all hateful, all slave-traders, all henceforth answerable for the violence of revolutionary action.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">And sweep out all 'the obscurers, all the inventors of subterfuges, the charlatans and tricksters, the dealers in gobbledygook. And do not seek to know whether personally these gentlemen are in good or bad faith, whether personally they have good or bad intentions. Whether personally - that is, in the private conscience of Peter or Paul - they are or are not colonialists, because the essential thing is that their highly problematical subjective good faith is entirely irrelevant to the objective social implications of the evil work they perform as watchdogs of colonialism.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic-OBSERVATION 2: 2011]][[#Affirmative-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic-OBSERVATION 2: 2011]]<span style="font-family: arial;">OBSERVATION 2: 2011</span></span>==== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">When I was a novice I was told I would be one of the greats. I would MASTER policy making, through Counterplans that do nothing, DA’s with impacts in far away lands; K’s that spew random philosophy irrelevant to our struggle. I came close, I was determined to ace this game,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Now I don’t wanna play it for how long I’ve waited. </span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Little did I know</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">That I was being a racist.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I’ve changed and I’ve strayed from the practices we adopted</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">I play but I have to be hip hoppin’</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">From Rick Rosses to Lil’ Waynes</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Like hip hop, debate’s become a little plain.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Just the same, the game erases me and changes you</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">So racist complacency is all that’s accepted as proof</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">That it makes us afraid to see the problems through objective truth. </span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">It’s your choice, but how you choose that’s significant</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Debates are not as real as this,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">With our voice and our belligerence</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Gets down to the fundamental reason you rap</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The game is just wack,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The stack of their chips, has to be big:</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The impact it has on the kids,</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">When you’re ranked by your wits. </span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Tells me debate is where the factory is.</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Discussion of colonialism is potent in the context of societal response to space exploration</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Lively 2K</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11px;">Adam-studied history and philosophy in England and London; phD student @ BurBack College University of London; //Masks: Blackness, Race, and the Imagination//; p. 1-2. DB.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">On 12 October 1492 Christopher Columbus landed at Guanahani in the Bahamas. Over half a century earlier, in 1434, a Portuguese expedition had successfully rounded the long-feared Cape Bojador on the Atlantic coast of modern Morocco for the first time, thus laying open the sea route to sub-Saharan Africa. The cumulative impact of these events on the way that Europeans thought about themselves and the world around them was comparable to the shock at contacting intelligent life from another planet. For most people who participated in or knew about Europe’s discoveries, everything they heard about these strange peoples confirmed an idea of European superiority and distinctive destiny. Yet even that formulation of superiority demanded a new structure of thought, a new way of assimilating puzzling questions and new realities. And for a few others, over time, these new horizons were to provide new perspectives on Europe itself – on its religion, its aesthetics, its social structures, its morality.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">For Europeans of the fifteenth century, the Atlantic Ocean west of the Canaries and Azores was the outer space of its day. Indeed, Columbus’s very mission to reach Asia by a westward route had a cosmological basis in the belief, drawn from the rediscovered writings of Ptolemy, that the world was a sphere suspended in the void. A century and a half after Columbus’s voyage, America was still the great unknown. Cyrano de Bergerac’s //<span style="font-family: Arial;">Histoire comique des Etats et Empires de la Lune et du Soleil</span>// was published in two parts in 1657 and 1662, and this early version of H.G. Wells begins with a landing in America, before the final ascent to the moon and sun is made. Extraterrestrial travel is projected imaginatively as an extension of the discoveries already being made in that New World beyond the empty ocean.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Sub-Saharan Africa, too, was an expanse of the unknown into which could be poured endless speculation. The anthropophagi and monstrous men envisaged in St Augustine’s description of sub-Saharan Africa were not to be expelled until the Scotsman Mungo Park and other Europeans penetrated the interior of West Africa in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. It was not until Burton, Speke and Stanley made their expeditions into East and Central Africa in the nineteenth century that the legends dating from the writings of Ptolemy concerning the ‘Mountains of the Moon’ and the source of the Nile came to be confirmed. Even in the 1890s and 1900s, we find writers like Rider Haggard and John Buchan perpetuating fanciful myths such as the one of a white people, or at least a white ruler, at the heart of Africa. These were the //<span style="font-family: Arial;">X Files</span>// of their day.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">The imagination can be an instigator of historical change; it was the speculation as to what might lie beyond the limits of the known that spurred Columbus to make that first voyage across the Atlantic. But the imagination can also be a way of coping with change, of assimilating it to what is already known. From the ‘fantastic voyage’ narratives of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, through the exotic imperial romances of the nineteenth, and up to the science fiction of the twentieth century, imaginative literature has been a means –like any mythology – of mediating between the domestic and that which lies at and beyond the limits of knowledge.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Debate must make the difficult change to a multicultural education through self examination and change or risk the extinction of debate.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Valdivia-Sutherland '98</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: verdana; font-size: 11px;">Cynthia-; “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensic Programs”; National Communication Association’s 84th Annual Meeting, November 22; [[http://www.phirhopi.org/prp/spkrpts5.2/sutherland.htm]]. DB.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">It has been argued that forensics is (or should be) primarily an educational enterprise, rooted in pedagogy, rhetoric, and research. If this is so, then in advancing into the 21st century, an era in which societies will increasingly become multicultural, it makes sense to adopt Albert and Triandis' (1985) objective of effectuating intercultural education within a multicultural society. The aim of this objective is "to prepare individuals to function effectively in both their culture of origin and in their new culture" (p. 391). Implementing this objective in forensics will not be easy. Change never is. However, while human beings do not automatically embrace the unknown, inability to move beyond a state of stasis equates to stagnation in human development. Within the world of forensics, coaches, critics, and competitors must continually adapt, evolving in their interactions with an ever-changing environment, or risk extinction. The possibility for forensic* multicultural evolution can be strengthened in several ways. First, those of us involved in the activity must hone our self-diagnostic skills; in other words, we must consistently and honestly examine what we are doing, why, and with what effect. Are we "doing the greatest good for the greatest number?" If not, why not? Second, we must recognize the potential for educational gain when we expose ourselves and our students to multicultural awareness, knowledge, and acceptance. Not only will our learning experience be enriched, but we may also be led to explore identities and to question cultural domination, thereby increasing acceptance of differences. Finally, we must begin to begin. We cannot advance beyond our current state until we initiate action. This can be accomplished in many different ways. Here are a few: </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">a. Recruitment of forensics competitors through on campus multicultural clubs and organizations. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">b. Development of non-traditional forensics programs. For example: a one-unit non-traveling team that exposes students to and educates them about forensics and/or the use of intramural competitions. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">c. Adoption of debate topics centered on global rather than national concerns. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">d. Expository speeches geared to inform about other cultures. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">e. Interpretive programs adopted from another culture's canons of literature. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">f. Creation of new events or a return to old ones (such as oratorical speeches which harmonize with African speaking styles). </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">g. Experiential activities designed to expose individuals in forensics to other cultural views. </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">h. Research assessing current forensic multiculturalism.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">Debate has served as pedagogical colonialism-the 1AC is a performative transformation of debate into a tool for the decoloonization of the mind.</span>**
==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dascal '7</span>**
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Marcelo-PhD epistimology and literature and professor of philosophy at TelAviv University; "Colonizing and Decolonizing Minds"; p.1-5. DS.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial;">Whereas the most visible forms of political colonialism have for the most part disappeared from the planet by the end of </span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">the millennium, several of its consequences remain with us. Criticism of colonialism, accordingly, has shifted its focus to its more subtle and lasting manifestations. Prominent among these are the varieties of what came to be known as the ‘colonization of the mind’. This is one of the forms of ‘epistemic violence’ that it is certainly the task of philosophers to contribute to identify and struggle against. ‘Postcolonial’ thinkers have undertaken not only to analyze this phenomenon, but also to devise strategies for effectively combating and hopefully eradicating colonialism’s most damaging aspect – the taking possession and control of its victims’ minds.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">My purpose in this paper is to contribute, qua philosopher, to both of these undertakings. I begin by trying to clarify the nature of the colonization of the mind and its epistemic underpinnings and the typical reactions to it. Next, I examine examples of these reactions with their corresponding analyses and strategies. The assumptions underlying them reveal certain inherent paradoxes, which call into question the possibility of a full decolonization of mind. I conclude by suggesting an alternative strategy and a series of means to implement it.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">What is ‘colonization of the mind’?In this section, the range of phenomena that fall under the label ‘colonization of the mind’ is extended beyond its usual application and briefly toured; the main features of the phenomenon are described; its epistemic characteristics are analyzed; and the typical ‘instinctive’ reactions to mind colonization are considered.1.1 The metaphor ‘colonization of the mind’ highlights the following characteristics of the phenomenon under scrutiny here: (a) the intervention of an external source – the ‘colonizer’ – in the mental sphere of a subject or group of subjects – the ‘colonized’; (b) this intervention affects central aspects of the mind’s structure, mode of operation, and contents; (c) its effects are long-lasting and not easily removable; (d) there is a marked asymmetry of power between the parties involved; (e) the parties can be aware or unaware of their role of colonizer or colonized; and (f) both can participate in the process voluntarily or involuntarily.These characteristics are shared by a variety of processes of mind colonization, regardless of whether they occur in socio-political situations that are literally categorized as ‘colonial’. Therefore, ‘colonization of the mind’ may take place through the transmission of mental habits and contents by means of social systems other than the colonial structure. For example, via the family, traditions, cultural practices, religion, science, language, fashion, ideology, political regimentation, the media, education, etc.Consider education, for instance. The Brazilian educator Paulo Freire has analyzed a typically mind-colonizing educational paradigm, which he suggestively dubbed the ‘banking’ model. In this paradigm, a commodity (knowledge) is ‘deposited’ by those who have it (the teachers) in the minds of those (the pupils) who don’t have it; the task of both is basically passive: the former’s, to transmit and the latter’s to absorb ‘knowledge’.[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - River Hill (MD) - Jake Smith & D Srivastava#_edn1|[i]]]</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial;">1.2 The ‘banking’ model displays the characteristic //<span style="font-family: Arial;">epistemic</span>// nature of mind colonization: What grants the colonizer (in this case the teacher) the right to intervene in the pupil’s mind, thereby colonizing it, is the fact that the former possesses and the latter lacks //<span style="font-family: Arial;">knowledge</span>//. This is a commodity that everybody is presumed to desire by virtue of its epistemic properties, namely //<span style="font-family: Arial;">truth</span>// and //<span style="font-family: Arial;">universality</span>//, whence its//<span style="font-family: Arial;">applicability</span>//and //<span style="font-family: Arial;">utility</span>// derive.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__NEG__</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
=====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic-OBSERVATION 2: 2011-Framework Cards]]Framework Cards</span>===== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Should means a policy recomendation**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Carter, 02** (2/11/02, Rebecca S., “An Ordinance Concerning The Land Application Of Sewer Sludge In Buckingham County,”[[http://www.buckinghamcountyva.org/zoning/sewersludgeord.pdf]])</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**"Should"... recommendation.**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Should means obligation – only predictable meaning**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Collins English Dictionary, 03** (theFreeDictionary.com, “Should,” [[http://www.thefreedictionary.com/should]])**Red**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**should** [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ʃʊ</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">d]</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">vb</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Usage: **Should ..** granted asylum</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Should implies obligation**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**American Heritage Dictionary, 09** (theFreeDictionary.com, “Should,” [[http://www.thefreedictionary.com/should]])**Red**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**should** (shd)</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">aux.v. Past tense... a note.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Resolved implies legislation**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Robert, 15** – general (Henry M., //Roberts Rules of Order Revised,// “Part I. Rules of Order, Art. I. How Business Is Conducted in Deliberative Assemblies,” [[http://www.rulesonline.com/rror-01p.htm]])</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Motions and ... of "Resolved."</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x-Pedagogical Colonialism-1AC - Capitol Classic-Fem-K]]Fem-K</span>==== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**While the aff claims to transverse gender, they maintain the construct of sexual difference, which destroys agency and humyn freedom. The alternative is to embrace an ethic without sex and gender**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, [[http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248]])</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Removing, transcending...**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> to foster.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The aff fails – their analysis of gender categories reproduces the notion of gender and prevent us from overcoming the binaries they qritiq**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, [[http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248]])**Red**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Many **queer ...**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> underpin it.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Feminist science fiction reifies gender by valorizing femininity** </span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, [[http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248]])**Red**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**By maintaining ...**hierarchy inversion.</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Sex can be transversed – only the alt creates value to life** </span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, [[http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248]])**Red**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The ideas..</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">own freedom</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">”</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The aff maintains hetero/homo binaries based on sexual difference – the alternative rejects these biological identities which solves case be erasing the differences upon which their hierarchies are built**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, [[http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248]])**Red**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">I suggest ...</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">orient towards.</span>**
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The alternative creates agency – it allows us to situate our resistance**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, [[http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248]])**Red**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**These different ...**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of freedom</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The role of the ballot is to foster a consciousness of the construction of sex as a category of identity – this lets us escape the enframing categories of the aff**</span>
==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nicholas, 09** - research student in Humanities at Griffith University (Lucy, Thirdspace, “A Radical Queer Utopian Future: A Reciprocal Relation Beyond Sexual Difference,” vol. 8, is. 2, [[http://www.thirdspace.ca/journal/article/viewArticle/lnicholas/248]])**Red**</span>
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">What this ...</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">identity categories.</span>**
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">HIP HOP AESTHETIC 1AC</span>**==== 



**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Play “Revolution” by Stic.Man (0:27-1:11)</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">This activity is one that is grown from the roots of white supremacy and mirrors white ways of viewing and knowing the world. This same mindset is what has taught politicians ignorance towards to personal issues, which become the focus in </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">transcendental argumentation</span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">. As long as we feed our perverted obsession with sexier and larger impacts we will provide no method in order to create a new debate community, which we hope will model a multicultural government. A revolution within debate must occur</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Spanos</span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;">2k4</span>**//<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"> , William V. "Spanos (is a Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, Binghamton, New York; he is a founder and editor of the critical journal boundary 2.." E Debate. N.p., 2004. Web. 18 Jan. 2012.<http://www.cross-x.com/topic/957-spanos/>. </span>//




**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">The black body represents a stain within the supposedly holy, clean, and sanitized environment of current debate. The fact that education structures and practices reject a focus of race, that is exactly what maintain privilege. This discussion is critical within public argumentation and as a tool for challenging the intellectual conformity that racism traps us in </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Reid Brinkley 2k8</span>**//<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"> Dr. Reid-Brinkley, 2008 [Shanara Rose, Professor of African American Studies at Pittsburg University, “The Harsh Realities of ‘Acting Black’”: How African America Policy Debaters Negotiate Representation Through Racial Performance And Style, C.A.] </span>//




**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">Debate is grounded in a western and white ideology, which is a direct barrier to the participation of African American individuals within a privileged community</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Hill 97’</span>**//<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">, Shelton 97, Former Debate coach at Biola University, “African American Students’ Motivation to Participate in Intercollegiate Debate, in the Southern Journal of Forensics 2 (Fall, 1997) 202-235</span>//



**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">Hip-hop provides a discursive strategy to transform traditionally empty words that invisibilze the body into a speaking style critical to challenge dominant norms and the sole reliance of expert discourse within academic debate</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Reid Brinkley 2k8</span>**//<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"> Dr. Reid-Brinkley, 2008 [Shanara Rose, Professor of African American Studies at Pittsburg University, “The Harsh Realities of ‘Acting Black’”: How African America Policy Debaters Negotiate Representation Through Racial Performance And Style, C.A.] </span>//




**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 13pt;">Thus Joe and I advocate the use of the hip-hop aesthetic as a rhetorical weapon to model our aspirations for a multicultural government within the debate community</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">Hip-hop is a culture that relies on the centrality of the black body, which allows for the construction of a new narrative to challenge local and societal atrocities that we witness. Sacrificing our reliance on experts and regulating the acceptance of the hip hop aesthetic ensures that silence and an epistemology of ignorance no longer dominates our thought process </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Quick 2k11</span>**//<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"> Quick, Rachel K (Student at the University of Missouri who is researching the social impact of hip-hop. This paper was written for qualification for a Master of Arts degree and presented to the faculty of the Missouri graduate school). "THE CULTURAL COMMODIFICATION OF IDENTITY: HIP-HOP AUTHENTICITY." University of Missouri Education . N.p., May 2011. Web. 16Jan. 2012. <http://https:</span>//mospace.umsystem.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/10355/11503/research.pdf?sequence=3>.




//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional and economic power while excluding and discriminating against other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of hip hop within debate signifies the power of alternative tactics for education and checks the homogenizing function of expert discourse</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Reid Brinkley 2k8</span>**//<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"> Dr. Reid-Brinkley, 2008 [Shanara Rose, Professor of African American Studies at Pittsburg University, “The Harsh Realities of ‘Acting Black’”: How African America Policy Debaters Negotiate Representation Through Racial Performance And Style, C.A.] </span>



//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">Rhetorically engaging the African-American body through Hip-Hop needs to precede any political discussion because politics REVOLVES around their oppression and liberation and is therefore necessary to understanding how politics FUNCTIONS which remains untouched under their articulation of the focus of debate </span>****<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">Cohen 2k6</span>**//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Cohen, Cathy (</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Cathy Cohen is a Professor in the Political Science Department at the University of Chicago. She is the author of the book The Boundaries of Blackness: AIDS and the Breakdown of Black Politics and the co-editor of the anthology Women Transforming Politics.) </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">"African American Youth: Broadening our Understanding of Politics, Civic Engagement and Activism ." Youth Activism . N.p., 7 June 2006. Web.18 Jan. 2012.<http://ya.ssrc.org/african/Cohen/>. Ginger </span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Arguably more than any other subgroup of Americans</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">, </span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">African American youth reflect the challenges of </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 15pt;">inclusion </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">and </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 15pt;">empowerment </span>__**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">in the post-civil rights period</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">. **__When one looks at a wide array of__** </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">some of **the most controversial**</span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">and important</span>__**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">issues challenging the country, African American young people are often at the</span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 15pt;">center</span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">of </span>__**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">these **debates and policies**</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">Whether the issue is the mass incarceration of African Americans, the controversy surrounding Affirmative Action as a policy to redress past discrimination, the increased use of high stakes testing to regulate standards of education, debates over appropriate and effective campaigns for HIV and AIDS testing and prevention programs, or efforts to limit comprehensive sex education in public schools,</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">most of these initiatives and controversies are </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 15pt;">focused </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">on, </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 15pt;">structured </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">around, and </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 15pt;">disproportionately impact</span>__**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">young, often marginally positioned</span>__**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">African Americans. In contrast to the centrality of African American youth to the politics and policies of the country, their perspectives and voices have generally been </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 15pt;">absent </span>__****__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">from not only</span>__**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">public </span>__**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">policy debates, but also academic research</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">. As the presence of African American youth as policy targets or perceived threat in the public mind has increased, researchers actually have less systematic information on the political ideas and actions of this group than we did 30 years ago. Increasingly, researchers and</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">policy-makers have been content to detail and measure the behavior and negative outcomes of young African Americans with little concern for measuring and analyzing their attitudes, ideas, wants, desires and politics</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">As researchers</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">, </span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">it is time to recommit ourselves to understanding and exploring the politics, activism and political attitudes of African American youth in all of their complexity</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">. While researchers and policy-makers may be paying less attention to the ideas and politics of African American youth, __these young people continue to engage in both traditional and extra-systemic politics__. The history of black youth activism personifies struggles among those disenfranchised to force the country to live up to its promise of equality and justice. Clearly, the work of young African Americans in the Civil Rights Movement is what most people reference when thinking about black youth activism; nearly all the leaders of this historic movement where young people under the age of 30. African American young people lead boycotts, freedom rides, voter registration drives and rallies across the south. __African American high school students sacrificed their safety and often disobeyed their parent’s wishes as they engaged in civil disobedience, filling the jails with their young bodies. But no matter how important young African Americans proved to be to the Civil Rights Movement, they have been equally active and instrumental in other movements and politics__. Whether it is the Black Power movement, the Anti-apartheid movement, or the organized mobilization against mass incarceration, __African American youth have been and continue to be at the center of these efforts, providing leadership, analysis, and energy__</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">. </span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">We must</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">, </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">therefore</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">, </span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">expand our understanding of when and where politics happens, pursuing the larger question of what is political and what counts as politics for young African Americans</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">For example, there has been a continuous debate in the hip hop community, among journalists and a few researchers, about hip hop as a cultural vehicle of politics for African American youth. In a series of focus groups I held with African Americans ages 18-21 in Chicago in 2004, there was general agreement among participants that</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">hip hop culture was especially influential in the lives of younger African Americans and had the potential to be a significant political force</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">One participant proclaimed, “</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">If just half the folks who listen to rap music could come together, this government wouldn’t know what hit them</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana;">." Another explained, “</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">Hip hop is where we can talk to each other about all the things done wrong to us</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">.” Ironically, in the realm of politics, __traditional researchers have been the last to take the political influence of hip hop seriously, focusing their work instead on traditional measures of politics__, and the questions of whether young people vote and if they are engaged in standard forms of civic activity. And while I, as a political scientist, am interested in young African Americans and their engagement in traditional forms of participation (including voting), I am also interested in the evolving notion of hip hop as not only a cultural form, but also a significant mode of political expression.</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">In the last presidential election, the presence of the hip hop community was visible</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">. Whether it was P. Diddy’s “Citizen Change Campaign” that used the slogan “vote or die,” or Russell Simmon’s Hip Hop Summit Action Network, or even Eminem’s release of “Mosh” just weeks before the 2004 presidential election, all these factors could be hypothesized to influence the politics and activism of African American youth in ways that the Democrats and Republicans never approached. Moreover, beyond the electoral sphere, __hip hop artists and cultural workers are to be found among those public celebrities and activists willing to lend their names and energy to issues such as AIDS, debt relief for Africa, and opposition to the prison industrial complex__. Finally,</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">the use of hip-hop across the world as a cultural form of rebellion is evident in countries such as Cuba, Brazil, and South Africa</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">. Thus, as researchers,</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">we would be negligent if we did not fully explore the connections being made by young African Americans between hip hop culture and politics</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">. For example, does this group understand hip hop to be an alternative mode of political action, making visible their political, social and economic condition? To what degree do the themes evident in hip hop culture shape or influence the political thoughts and actions of African American youth? Empirically, does listening to certain forms of hip hop lessen or increase the probability that individuals will engage in politics, develop oppositional political attitudes, or feel greater alienation from the political system?</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt;">Thus we embrace the framework of who best access liberation of the oppressed through the use of the hip-hop aesthetic within academic debate. We also interpret the role of the ballot as not just a technocratic calculation, but instead an endorsement of a presented methodology and a signification of educational priorities that extend beyond any individual debate round. The power that the ballot holds has died through the norms of traditional debate and we must be the ones to regain it</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Louden 2k10</span>**//<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;"> Louden, Allan D (Allan Louden is director of graduate studies in the department of communication at Wake Forest University. He has served as the president of the American Forensics Association, is a member of the board of trustees for the National Debate Tournament, and directed the Wake Forest intercollegiate debate program.) Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century . NewYork: n.p., 2010. Print.</span>//
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">PERFORMATIVE RACE 1AC: </span>**==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">OBSERVATION 1 IS SOCIETIES REALITIES</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">WHITE SUPREMACY IS AN UNNAMED POLITICAL SYSTEM THAT MANIFESTS ITSELF IN EVERYDAY LIFE</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLS </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>**==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Charles-; //The Racial Contract//; p. 1-3</span>**==== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">THE IDEA THAT WE MUST “EXPLORE” IS COHERENT WITH OLD FORMS OF DOMINATION</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">LIVELY</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">well known critic and Novelist </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span></span>**==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">WHITE SUPREMACY HAS TRIED AND SUCEEDED IN REACHING OUTER SPACE</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mills 1997</span>**==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Charles, a philosophy professor at Northwestern University.has published numerous articles on Marxism, Critical Race Theory, and African-American philosophy, //The Racial Contract,// Cornell University Press, 1997. Pg 113-114. JG] </span>**==== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">THE DICUSSION OF SPACE EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT FAILS TO ENCOMPASS THE FACT THAT PEOPLE OF COLOR ARE TREATED AS “ALIENS”. WHITE SUPREMACY DEFINES THE “NORMAL” HUMAN</span>**==== 

====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">KOCHI </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lecturer @ Queen’s University </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">& ORDAN </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Linguist Bar Ilan University</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2k8 </span></span>**==== 

====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tarik </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kochi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Lecturer, Queen’s University Belfast, School of Law] </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">&</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Noam </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ordan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Linguist, Bar Ilan University], “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, Vol. 7 No. 3 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">2008</span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]]</span></span>**==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">DEBATE IS AN ALIENATING ACTIVITY AND IN ORDER TO CHANGE IT WE MUST CHANGE THE METHODS OF THE DEBATE COMMUNITY</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">__Dr. Reid-Brinkley, 2008__[Shanara Rose, Professor of African American Studies at Pittsburg University, “The Harsh Realities of ‘Acting Black’”: How African America Policy Debaters Negotiate Representation Through Racial Performance And Style, C.A.]</span>**


==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">DEBATE MUST CHANGE INTO A MULTICULTURAL ACTIVITY OR RISK THE EXTINCTION OF DEBATE</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">VALDIVIA-SUTHERLAND</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Butte Community College </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span></span>**==== 

====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Cynthia-; “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensic Programs”;</span>**==== 

====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> National Communication Association’s 84th Annual Meeting, November 22 [[http://www.phirhopi.org/prp/spkrpts5.2/sutherland.htm]]</span>**==== 

==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">EXPOSING WHITE SUPREMACY WITHIN SOCIETY SHOWS THE TRUE HARMS OF RACISM</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLS </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>**==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Charles-; //The Racial Contract//; p. 98-102</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">OBSERVATION 2 IS FLYING BLIND</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PLAY REMEMBER THE NAME (00:00)-(00:56)</span></span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE ALTERNATIVE IS TO REJECT ALL POLICY OPTIONS IN FAVOR OF A PLITICS OF THE EXPOSITION OF WHITE SUPREMACY</span></span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">WHITE SUPREMACY HAS EXISTED WITHIN SOCIETY AND ALLOWS WHITES TO INGORE THEIR </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; line-height: 24px;">**PRIVILEGE**</span>==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mills 1997</span></span>**==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Charles, a philosophy professor at Northwestern University.has published numerous articles on Marxism, Critical Race Theory, and African-American philosophy, //The Racial Contract,// Cornell University Press, 1997. Pg 92-93. JG] </span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">IN ORDER FOR WHITE SUPREMACY TO BE DESTROYED WE MUST RECOGNIZE ITS PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE EFFECTS</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mills 1997</span></span>**==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Charles, a philosophy professor at Northwestern University.has published numerous articles on Marxism, Critical Race Theory, and African-American philosophy, //The Racial Contract,// Cornell University Press, 1997. Pg 92. JG] </span>**==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;">IN ORDER TO SOLVE THIS UNNAMED SYSTEM WE HAVE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IT EXISTS</span>**==== 
==== ==== 
====**<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mills 1997</span></span>**==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Verdana,Geneva,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Charles, a philosophy professor at Northwestern University.has published numerous articles on Marxism, Critical Race Theory, and African-American philosophy, //The Racial Contract,// Cornell University Press, 1997. Pg 124-126. JG] </span>**==== 
==== ==== 

==== ==== 
==== ==== 


==== ====