[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="text-align: justify;">__**Plan Text**__</span>== 
**The US Federal Government should deploy a constellation of kinetic energy ballistic missile interceptors in space above the earth’s mesosphere.**

==__**Contention 1: Chinese Escalation**__== 
**China hopes to prevail against U.S. with space weapons, U.S. must militarize space to defend interests**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Tellis 7**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
[Ashley, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Senior Associate, July 23, The Wall Street Journal, “China‘s Space Weapons,” <span style="color: #0c0099;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2007/07/23/china-s-space-weapons/hgx%5D|http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2007/07/23/china-s-space-weapons/hgx]]]</span>
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
<span style="text-align: justify;">China pursued space warfare programs include attack weapons, electronic attack, and computer-network and ground-attack.
Space arms-control advocates are correct when they emphasize that advanced powers stand to gain disproportionately from any global regime that protects their space assets. U.S. should accelerate investments in solutions that enhance the security of its space assets.</span>

</span>
**Chinese expansion into space challenges US national security.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Martel 2003**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**William C. Martel (Professor of National Security Affairs at Naval War College, RI) and Toshi Yoshihara (Research Fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Massachusetts) 2003, Avoiding a Sino-American Space Race, Washington Quarterly: Autumn 2003 issue, published by the Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,** <span style="color: #1800b1;">[[http://pdfserve.informaworld.com/440173_915549761_918386378.pdf|__**http://pdfserve.informaworld.com/440173_915549761_918386378.pdf**__]]</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="text-align: justify;">United States' self-appointed guardianship of space represents a genuine challenge to China's national security. China's extension into space symbolizes its ambitions to challenge U.S. national security. The United States and China are on the threshold of a space race that could radically influence international security.</span>
</span>
**China can destroy US satellites.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**MacDonald 2008**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Bruce W. MacDonald (Senior Director at the United States Institute of Peace) 2008, China, Space Weapons, and US Security, Council Special Report No.38, September 2008, published by the Council on Foreign Relations,**</span><span style="color: #1800b1; display: block; text-align: justify;">__**[[http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=o0GkabrNftIC&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=Bruce+W.+MacDonald+(Senior+Director+at+the+United+States+Institute+of+Peace)+2008,+China,+Space+Weapons,+and+US+Security,+Council+Special+Report+No.38,+September+2008,+published+by+the+Council+on+Foreign+Relations&ots=OTkmlF7uGY&sig=ncw52NFQTbv6Zh5k4EefU7dtgqw#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=o0GkabrNftIC&oi=fnd&pg=PP2&dq=Bruce+W.+MacDonald+(Senior+Director+at+the+United+States+Institute+of+Peace)+2008,+China,+Space+Weapons,+and+US+Security,+Council+Special+Report+No.38,+September+2008,+published+by+the+Council+on+Foreign+Relations&ots=OTkmlF7uGY&sig=ncw52NFQTbv6Zh5k4EefU7dtgqw#v=onepage&q&f=false]]**__</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="text-align: justify;">On 2007, China launched a missile into space, destroyed an old Chinese weather satellite. The strategic reverberations of that collision have shaken up security thinking in the United States. China could build a substantial number of ASAT and thus might be able to destroy substantial numbers of U.S. satellites in low earth orbit (LEO), upon which the U.S. military heavily depends.</span>
</span>
**Realism and historical evidence indicate rising powers like China are likely to challenge established powers like the US.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Friedberg 2005**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**(Aaron. Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University), The Future of U.S.-China Relations: Is Confict Inevitable?, Fall 2005, Vol. 30, No. 2, Pages 7-45**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Rising powers have tended to be troublemakers. As a state’s capabilities grow, its leaders define their interests more expansively and seek a greater degree of influence over what is going on around them. Rising powers are often drawn to challenge territorial boundaries, international institutional arrangements, and hierarchies of prestige. This often brings them into conflict with more established great powers.</span>

**China is prepared for war with the US**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Capaccio 9**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**(Tony, Staff Writer, Bloomberg, “China’s New Weapons May Threaten U.S. Bases, Ships, Gates Says”,** <span style="color: #1800b1;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=newsarchive&sid=am6ExRzB1cjo|__**http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=newsarchive&sid=am6ExRzB1cjo**__]]</span>**) MAT**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">China is developing new weapons that could threaten the U.S. military presence in the Pacific, Defense Secretary Robert Gates said today. “We should be concerned less with their potential ability to challenge the U.S. and more with their ability to disrupt our freedom of movement and narrow our strategic options. His comments reflect a growing concern within the U.S. intelligence and military community over the range and sophistication of China’s weaponry. China has “dramatically expanded” its ability to hack into U.S. government computers.</span>

**US and China likely to go to war over hegemony and security competition**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Brzezinski****,** **Mearsheimer** **2005**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**(Zbigniew Brzezinski, John J. Mearsheimer, Foreign Policy, January/February 2005, Clash of the Titans)**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="text-align: justify;">China cannot rise peacefully, and if it continues its dramatic economic growth over the next few decades, the United States and China are likely to engage in an intense security competition. </span>
</span>
**Chinese analysts have already planned strategies to cripple the US**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Tellix 07**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Ashley** **Tellis****,** **Senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 20****07****.** **'China's Military Space Strategy', Survival, 49:3, 41 – 72,** [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf|**http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf**]]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Chinese analyses of US military operations in the Persian Gulf wars, Kosovo and Afghanistan have yielded one critical insight: the United States is inordinately dependent on its complex but exposed network of sophisticated command, control, communications and computer-based intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems operating through space. Chinese strategists concluded that any effort to defeat the United States would require a riposte against its space-based capabilities. The ability to neutralise American space systems quickly would permit a weaker Chinese military to deter, delay, degrade or defeat the superior warfighting capabilities of the United States and ’level the playing field’. An effective active defense against a formidable power in space may require China to have an asymmetric capability against the powerful United States. China will follow the same principles for space militarization and space weapons as it did with nuclear weapons. It will develop anti-satellite and space weapons capable of effectively taking out an enemy’s space system.</span>
==__**Contention 2: Impacts of Satellite Loss**__== 
**US Heg is threatened by recent technologies developed by other nations**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Schendzielos 08**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**(Kurt M. ARMY COMMAND AND GENERAL STAFF COLL FORT LEAVENWORTH KS SCHOOL OF ADVANCED MILITARY STUDIES)** [[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA485553|**http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metad ataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA485553**]]**)**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">America is critically reliant upon space exploitation for military capabilities and secure communications. Recent developments in anti-satellite technologies signal a dangerous threat to U.S. space dominance. Many adversary nations acquired anti-satellite technologies and proliferated them; threatening permanent disablement of almost any American satellite.</span>

**Loss of US satellites would cause global economic and communication failure**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Martel 2003**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**William C. Martel (Professor of National Security Affairs at Naval War College, RI) and Toshi Yoshihara (Research Fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Massachusetts) 2003, Avoiding a Sino-American Space Race, Washington Quarterly: Autumn 2003 issue, published by the Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,** <span style="color: #1800b1;">[[http://pdfserve.informaworld.com/440173_915549761_918386378.pdf|__**http://pdfserve.informaworld.com/440173_915549761_918386378.pdf**__]]</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Space is so vital to national security and economic prosperity that the United States will do whatever it takes to protect its ability to use space. The security and economic well being of the United States and its allies and friends depend on the nation's ability to operate successfully in space. In economic terms, the United States relies on space technologies and capabilities to support a wide range of commercial activities. The precise timing signals emitted from the GPS allow automobiles, aircraft, and ships to locate their positions and establish the chronological order for virtually all financial transactions. Indeed, the global financial network would collapse without GPS. Equally important, commercial satellites carry most global communications. Despite the phenomenal growth rate of fiber optics networks, commercial satellites still dominate long-haul global communications.</span>
**Economic decline causes extinction.**
**Bearden 00**
**(T.E. LTC U.S. Army (ret) Director of Association of Distinguished American Scientists and Fellow Emeritus, Alpha Foundation’s Institute for Advanced Study, The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly, 6-24-2k, [[http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm]])**
Desperate nations take desperate actions. economic collapse, the stress on nations will have increased the number of conflicts, to the point where WMD are certain to be released. Draw other nations into the conflict. Studies have shown that once a few nukes are launched, adversaries are compelled to launch on perception. The only chance a nation has to survive at all is to launch pre-emptive strikes and try to take out its perceived foes as rapidly as possible. Rapid escalation to full WMD exchange occurs. The resulting great Armageddon will destroy the biosphere.

**If the US loses satellites to Chinese ASAT, Taiwan conflict will explode into US-China war**
**Easton 09**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**(Ian, Research Fellow at the 2049 Project Institute, 2009. “The Great Game in Space,”** <span style="color: #0c0099;">__**[[http://www.project2049.net/documents/china_asat_weapons_the_great_game_in_space.pdf]])**__</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Any possible U.S. military contingency around the Taiwan Strait would require secure satellites as the U.S. becomes ever more reliant upon its space systems. Moreover, reconnaissance satellites are thought to limit the risk inherent in the build-up of forces that both the PRC and the U.S. could be expected to deploy to the region in the event of a crisis. However, if the U.S. was blinded as the result of a preemptive Chinese ASAT attack, the conflict could quickly escalate to a dangerous level.</span>
**US-Sino war goes global.**
**Hunkovic 09**
**[American Military University, 09 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]**
A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict. many countries could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, Korea, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain. If China were to annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism, which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat, if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict.

**Extinction**
**Cheong 00**
**(Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)**
If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. Opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. There is little hope of winning a war against China short of using nuclear weapons. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. We would see the destruction of civilization.
==__**Contention 3: Asteroids Advantage**__== 
**Asteroid threat is realistic and we need to get ready**
**Shiga 2009**
**(David, New Scientist; 9/26/2009, Vol. 203 Issue 2727, p30-33, 4p)**
Telescopes discover thousands of asteroids every year. The asteroid is on a collision course with Earth. The size of a skyscraper, and it will be here in three days. This scenario is all too plausible. It is realistic enough that the US air force recently brought together officials to assess the nation's ability to cope, should it come to pass.

**We have the ability to track asteroids, but not the ability to stop them, DE lasers are key.**
**Rogers 97**
**(Lieutenant Colonel Mark Rogers, USAF, a 1976 graduate of the USAF Academy where he majored in physics, has been involved in defense-oriented research and development for the past twenty years, focusing primarily on applications of lasers for military systems. LASERS IN SPACE TECHNOLOGICAL OPTIONS FOR ENHANCING US MILITARY CAPABILITIES “Center for Strategy and Technology** **<span style="color: #0c0099;">[[http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/program/occppr02.htm]]</span>)**
We have the system that could warn us but we lack technology to counter the threat. Directed energy weapons such as lasers change its direction causing it to miss the earth.

**The impact is extinction --- unprecedented magnitude and aperiodic strikes shatter traditional considerations of “timeframe” and mean we should treat NEO threats as imminent.**
**Brownfield 4**
**(Roger, Gaishiled Project, “A Million Miles a Day”, Presentation at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth From Asteroids, 2-26, [[http://www.aiaa.org/ccontent.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&g]] ID=17092)**
Left to its own fate this Rock would release energy equivalent of one Hiroshima bomb for every man on the planet. The distribution of these events is completely aperiodic and random. The probability for large asteroid impact in the next century is low irrelevant. If we are going to respond to these events. This method of assessment will not be relevant. When anyone says the probability for large asteroid impact is low they are offering a metric for hope, not rational information.

**Asteroid strike causes extinction.**
**Sidle 07**
**(Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach, SpringLink)**
A 3 km asteroid striking land would be capable of destroying civilization. Global catastrophic threshold reached by massive ejection of dust into the atmosphere that would depress temperatures leading to global crop failures. Nitrous oxide by the burning of atmospheric nitrogen would destroy the ozone layer and the resulting nitric acid would pollute soils, lakes, oceans and streams. Release of large quantities of water vapor and carbon dioxide would strongly enhance global warming. Forests would be destroyed worldwide. Mass extinctions of plant and animal species would occur. Several billon people could die from the initial impact with the secondary impacts and global socio-economic collapse. Huge tsunami would occur globally; heights of several hundreds of meters.
==__**Contention 4: Solvency**__== 
**Directed energy weapons key to successful weapon advantage and ballistic missile defense.**
**Deveci 7**
<span style="color: #121212; display: block; text-align: justify;">**[Bayram <span style="color: #000000;">Deveci</span>, Doctorate at Naval Postgraduate School, <span style="color: #000000;">07 </span>[Naval Postgraduate School, “Directed-Energy Weapons: Invisible and Invincible?”, September 2007, <span style="color: #0c0099;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473993&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span> ]**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Directed-energy weapons deliver lethal energy at the speed of light. This enables instant reaction to fast targets. Avoidance of collateral damage is the second advantage. Kinetic and chemical weapons have devastating and unintended collateral effects. DE weapons are extremely precise. Directed-energy beams are immune to gravity due to their lack of mass, which also frees them from the constraints that limit traditional weapons. Their deep magazines need only fuel and battery chargers, as well as low operating costs. They are unaffected by weather and can penetrate bunkers, as well as targets in space. Destroying a ballistic missile with an airborne laser during its boost phase by vaporizing its skin, unique in comparison to kinetic energy weapons. Directed-energy weapons have soft-kill potential which enables temporary damage.</span>
**The solution against China is to build a powerful BMD system**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Howard** **Kleinberg** **20****11****, member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April 2011. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'networK': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” p. Lexis**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">SBBMD weapons can also defend against all ASATs, whether direct-ascent or co-orbiting. SB-BMD provides the single best way to stop any such missile attack from taking place. It would also provide the single best way to defend against ASAT attacks. An ASAT a satellite in LEO would present a target of comparable size, density and velocity as a "mid-course" ICBM warhead. The ASAT could also be targeted and intercepted by a mid course defense-capable SB-BMD weapon.</span>
**SBLs prevent all forms of WMD attacks**
**Hardesty 05**
**(Captain David C. is is a member of the faculty of theNaval War College’s Strategy and Policy Department ’05 (Naval War College Review, “Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives”, Spring 2005, Hopkins)**
Laser weapons from space would be most effective for boost-phase intercept of ballistic missiles dealing with nuclear, chemical, or biological warheads. If not destroyed in boost, missiles may deploy decoys. Each of which is a lethal weapon in such cases there is a high likelihood that defenses would be overwhelmed.

**The weapons would be developed secretly by this year.**
**Pugliese 04**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**[David. Military journalist for the Ottawa Citizen newspaper “New Space Race afoot: Work in Secret. Weapons in orbit by 2012” The Gazette Pg.A13 June 1, 2004. Electronic accessessed 8/3/2011 via lexis nexis]**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">U.S. is re-examining building lasers to destroy enemy missiles. Information the public receives may become scarce. The Pentagon is taking the space laser and moving (it) into 'Black' territory," Black programs are ultra-secret and, in the past, have involved the development of the stealth bomber. Canadians would be unlikely to find out about the weapon until it becomes the missile shield. The weapon could be in orbit by 2012.</span>
**US Space Based BMD would deter all conflict**
**Lambakis, 07**
**(Steven, national security and international affairs analyst specializing in space power and policy studies, Managing Editor of Comparative Strategy, a leading international journal of global affairs and strategic studies, fellow at the National Institute for Public Policy. “Missile Defense From Space” 2-17-07.)**
A space-based missile defense layer could lead to increased stability in the world. Defenses deter attacks by reducing confidence in the success. The more effective the system is, the greater deterrence value, and the less likely we have to use it.