[[toc]]



=Affirmative= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
===<span style="text-align: center;">1AC- Inherency</span>=== 

Observation One is the Status Quo- Near Earth Objects (or NEOs) will inevitably strike the planet, only early warning through detection can prevent catastrophe.
The Australian Magazine, 2009, October 17, 2009, “'Roid rage - SCIENCE WATCH”, Lexis, 6/27/11, CF


Unfortunately, NASA is drastically underprepared for the inevitable NEO strike – NASA doesn’t have adequate detection to provide early warming.
Mercury, 2009 Hobart Mercury, August 14, 2009, Nationwide News Pty Limited, “Lack of funds hampers killer asteroid hunt”, Lexis Nexis, 6/21/11, CF


And, the current NASA mission only allows for ground-based NEO detection, which will fail. Only Space-based detection can adequately solve.
National Academies, 10 [ Over many decades, the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, and National Research Council have earned a solid reputation as the nation's premier source of independent, expert advice on scientific, engineering, and medical issues, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12842&page=41]



===<span style="text-align: center;">1AC – Harms</span>=== 

====Observation Two is Harms==== 
=====Scenario One: Armageddon===== 
A. Large Asteroids cause extinction of nearly all life on the planet – the dinosaurs prove.
Sunfellow ’95, David Sunfellow, a writer for the News Brief, BS in astronomy “Doomsday Asteroids”, Nov 17 1995, June 23, 2011, http://www.nhne.com/articles/saasteroids.html



B. Medium sized Asteroid strike causes global extinction.
Sidle ‘7 (Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society:An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)



C. Even Small asteroids which are undetectable from ground-telescopes cause the “Air Hammer” effect – a giant fireball that outweighs nuclear war.

Arentza et al 2010 NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit Robert Arentza, Harold Reitsemaa, Jeffrey Van Cleveb and Roger Linfielda a Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. 1600 Commerce St. Boulder, CO 80301 303-939-6140; rarentz@ball.com; hreitsema@aol.com; [[mailto:rlinfiel@ball.com|rlinfiel@ball.com]] b SETI Institute NASA Ames Research Center NS 244-30, Room 107G Moffett Field, CA 94035 650-604-1370 Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum


=====Scenario Two: Broken Arrow===== 
Due to poor detection we wouldn’t have adequate warning for a NEO strike, Nuclear weapons would be the only option.
Betts ‘9 (Bruce, The Planetary Society, “Final Update from the Planetary Defense Conference,” 4-30, http://www.planetary.org/blog/article/00001927/)



And, Destroying NEOs with nuclear weapons fails, the NEO will hit more cities, morph into a radioactive lump of metal, and causes massive space militarization.
O'Neill 2008 (IAN O'NEIL, O’Neill is a British solar physics doctor with nearly a decade of physics study and research experience, November 27th, 2008, “ Apollo Astronaut Highlights Threat of Asteroid Impact”, Astroengine.com, accessed 6/22/11, [[http://www.astroengine.com/2008/11/apollo-astronaut-highlights-threat-of-asteroid-strike/]], JK)



And, Nuclear explosions are imprecise and cause fragmentation making the impact worse
Lu ‘4 (Statement of Dr. Ed Lu President, B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)


And, the resulting fragmentation causes oxygen depletion and extinction
Verschurr ’96 (Gerrit, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adjunct_professor%22%20%5Co%20%22Adjunct%20professor|adjunct professor]] of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physics%22%20%5Co%20%22Physics|physics]] for the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Memphis%22%20%5Co%20%22University%20of%20Memphis|U of Memphis]], //Impact: The Threat of Asteroids and Comets//, pg. 40)


=====Scenario 3: Leadership===== 
Plan Solves US leadership –
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Garretson and Kaupa, 8</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[ Lieutenant Colonel Garretson is chief, Future Science and Technology Exploration Branch, Headquarters USAF Future Concepts and Transformation, Washington, DC. Major Kaupa, stationed at Edwards AFB, California, is an operational test pilot and test director for the chief of staff of the Air Force’s top-priority acquisition program—the KC-45A, Air & Space Power Journal - Fall 2008, “ Planetary Defense Potential Mitigation Roles of the Department of Defense,” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj08/fal08/garretson.html]</span>


U.S. space leadership is a __pre-condition__ for global hegemony
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Young et. al, 8</span>[ Mr. A. Thomas Young, Chairman Lieutenant General Edward Anderson, USA (Ret.) Vice Admiral Lyle Bien, USN (Ret.) General Ronald R. Fogleman, USAF (Ret.) Mr. Keith Hall General Lester Lyles, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Hans Mark, “ Leadership, Management, and Organization for National Security Space,” Institute for Defense Analyses, July 2008 [[http://www.armyspace.army.mil/ASJ/Images/National_Security_Space_Study_Final_Sept_16.pdf]]]


Heg solves multiple wars gobally
Thayer, 07<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University (Bradley A., American Empire, Routledge, page 108)</span>



==<span style="text-align: center;">1AC – Plan</span>== 

Plan: The United States federal government should develop and deploy a space-based Near Earth Object detection system operating on a Venus-like orbit.
===<span style="text-align: center;">1AC – Solvency</span>=== 

Observation Three is Solvency
The plan’s deployment of a space-based telescope is critical to solve NEO detection. The Venus-like orbit will allow adequate early warning and far greater precision.
Arentza et al 2010 NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit Robert Arentza, Harold Reitsemaa, Jeffrey Van Cleveb and Roger Linfielda a Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. 1600 Commerce St. Boulder, CO 80301 303-939-6140; rarentz@ball.com; hreitsema@aol.com; [[mailto:rlinfiel@ball.com|rlinfiel@ball.com]] b SETI Institute NASA Ames Research Center NS 244-30, Room 107G Moffett Field, CA 94035 650-604-1370 Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum



Only effective detection allows for the development of adequate deflection systems. We have the technology, we’d just need the time to deploy it.
Sayanagi 08, (Kunio M. Sayanagi, 4/4/08, “How to Deflect an Asteroid”, http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2008/04/how-to-deflect-an-asteroid.ars, Kunio M. Sayanagi is a postdoctoral research fellow in the Division for Geological and Planetary Sciences at the California Institute of Technology, SH)




And, only Venus-like orbit can create adequate lead time to allow for mitigation.
Arentza et al 2010 NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit Robert Arentza, Harold Reitsemaa, Jeffrey Van Cleveb and Roger Linfielda a Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. 1600 Commerce St. Boulder, CO 80301 303-939-6140; rarentz@ball.com; hreitsema@aol.com; [[mailto:rlinfiel@ball.com|rlinfiel@ball.com]] b SETI Institute NASA Ames Research Center NS 244-30, Room 107G Moffett Field, CA 94035 650-604-1370 Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum


And, Only US action solves, American leadership is essential to effective planetary defense.
Dinerman ‘9 (Taylor, journalist for the Space Review “The new politics of planetary defense,” The Space Review, 7-20, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1]])


Finally, US unilateral action is best – NASA and DOD are best suited for the job
Worden ‘2 (Brigadier General Simon P., Hearings on the threat of near-Earth asteroids (NEAs) before the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, House Committee on Science, October 3, 2002. http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/gov_threat_2002.cfm)



===<span style="text-align: center;">1AC – Framework</span>=== 

1. Don’t consider negative impacts - Major war is obsolete
Mandelbaum ’99 (Michael, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, 2-25, Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, “Is Major War Obsolete?” http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)


2. Probability and magnitude are 100 percent – our impacts far outweigh nuclear war.
Kunich ’97 (John, Lt. Colonel USAF, B.S., M.S., University of Illinois; J.D.

, Harvard Law School; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis)



3. Extinction is categorically different from any other impact—even if they win a nuclear war kills 99 percent of the population, an asteroid strike still outweighs by an order of magnitude
Jason G. Matheny 2007 Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007



Probability of extinction level strike is unacceptable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bucknam & Gold ‘8</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Mark, Deputy Dir for Plans in the Policy Planning Office of the Office of the US Secretary of Defense, Colonel USAF, PhD in War Studies from U of London, BS in physics, MS in materials science and engineering from Virginia Tech & Robert, Chief Technologist for the Space Department at the Applied Physics Laboratory of Johns Hopkins “Asteroid Threat? The Problem of Planetary Defence,” Survival vol. 50 no. 5 | 2008 | pp. 141–156)</span>



=Negative= 



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]