[[toc]]
If ya want summa dem cites, send us uh email at
[[mailto:andrewspomer@gmail.com|andrewspomer@gmail.com]] (aff cites)
[[mailto:ben.paul.ryan.packer@gmail.com|ben.paul.ryan.packer@gmail.com]] (neg cites)
=Affirmative= 
==Asteroid Mining 1AC== 
Inherency

Contention One is the Status Quo
Status quo asteroid mining is small scale – only will bring back two ounces of asteroids for research
NASA '11
(yup... NASA, 2/25/11, "NASA to Launch New __[[home|Science]]__ Mission to Asteroid in 2016", http://www.nasa.gov/topics/solarsystem/features/osiris-rex.html GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA will launch a …………</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> future strategies to mitigate possible Earth impacts from celestial objects.</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>
China is tightening export controls on rare earth minerals because of fears of smuggling
WSJ 8/2
(8/2/11, "China Considers Tightening Rare-Earth Quotas", [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903341404576483483557043362.html/|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903341404576483483557043362.html//]] ASpomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">BEIJING—</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">China is considering tightening ………………..</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">-earth ores, metals and compounds in the half, according to customs data supplied by Economic Information & Agency, which is based in Hong Kong.</span>


Plan Text

Plan: The United States __[[home|federal government]]__ should substantially increase its mining of asteroids beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

Hegemony

Contention Two is Hegemony,
Scenario One is the US
China will cut off minerals in 2012 killing the __[[home|global economy]]__ and US heg – all alternatives on Earth are 15 years away
CNETF '10
(website about China, 8/2/10, "China’s Stranglehold on Rare Earth Elements", http://www.cnetf.info/china-materials/chinas-stranglehold-on-rare-earth-elements GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Most people have no idea what rare earth elements are, but a wide array of the technologies that we ………………..</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> rest of the world tomorrow, it would throw the __[[home|global economy]]__ into absolute chaos. That is a lot of power for China to have.</span>


Attempted asteroid mining causes China to relax exports – lays the foundation for private sector space development
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Bova10</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">[Ben Bova is the president of the National Space Society, an independent, educational, grassroots, non-profit organization dedicated to the creation of a spacefaring civilization. Founded as the National Space Institute (1974) and L5 Society (1975), which merged to __[[home|form]]__ NSS in 1987 (see merger proclamation), NSS is widely acknowledged as the preeminent citizen's voice on space. NSS has over 12 thousand members (and more supporters) and over 50 chapters in the United States and around the world. The society also publishes Ad Astra magazine, an award-winning periodical chronicling the most important developments in space. 11-27-2010 [[http://www.naplesnews.com/news/2010/nov/27/ben-bova-nov-28-2010-rare-earth-elements-are-news/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">China produces roughly 97 percent of the ……………. earths from asteroids might help influence China, too.</span>


NASA space exploration key to __[[home|science]]__ diplomacy
Krige ‘07
(Professor of the history and philosophy of science @ Georgia Tech [John Krige (Director of __[[home|Graduate Studies]]__), “NASA as an Instrument of U.S. Foreign Policy,” in The Societal Impact of Spaceflight, Edited By: Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius, 2007)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">This paper briefly considers one small, but i think important and often overlooked, corner of this vast panorama: the …………….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> threaten to tear apart the fragile fabric of Western democracy. </span>



Science Diplomacy is critical to build a broad-base for international cooperation
Orbach 2007
(Dr. Raymond L. Orbach, Under Secretary of Science @ U.S. Department of Energy, 3/21/2007
(“Fiscal 2008 Appropriations: Energy and Water Development”, Committee on Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis)

__Science by its nature facilitates diplomacy be………….foreign-born__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>




And increased global cooperation solves all nuclear wars
Seita ‘97
(B.S., California Institute of Technology; M.B.A., Stanford; J.D., Stanford. Professor of Law, Albany Law School of Union University, “Globalization and the Convergence of Values,” Cornell International Law Journal, pg nexisghs-ef)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The perspective that the human race matters </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">more than its …………. would also reduce human suffering and perhaps eliminate completely the risk of nuclear war.</span>__


Asteroid missions instill public confidence which solves space leadership – private sector can’t solve perception
Friedman '10
(Lou Friedman, 30 years as executive director of the planetary society, 12/13/10, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1742/1 GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">I believe that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">this nation should commit itself to</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">land………………..</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">) of our problems, but </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">like Apollo</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> it </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">can foster the spirit that enables much more to be accomplished. </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">Do we have it in us?</span>



US space leadership is key to global cooperation in space – solves war and extinction
Hsu and Cox 09
(2-20 Feng, Ph.D. Sr. Fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group / Ken, Ph.D. Founder & Director Aerospace Technology Working Group, "Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development: A Unified Strategic Vision", http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702) Harlin
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is a grand strategic vision for concurrent or unified space ………………..planet and beyond</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">! </span>



Space leadership key to war-fighting capabilities and Heg
Young ‘08
(Thomas Young, Chair for the Institute for Defense Analyses Research Group, July 2008, “Leadership, Management, and Organization for National Security Space”, http://www.armyspace.army.mil/ASJ/Images/National_Security_S pace_Study_Final_Sept_16.pdf GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Today, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. leadership in spaceprovides a vital national advantage …………….., and tacticsare predicated upon the availability of space capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


Heg is splendid
Kagan 11
(Robert Kagan, senior fellow @ the Brookings Institute, Weekly Standard, January 24, http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533695.html?nopager=1)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The looming battle over the defense budget could produce a useful national discussion about American foreign and defense policy. But we would need to begin by …………………. will keep pouring in. This is a great if recurring illusion, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the idea that you can pull a leg out from under a table and the table will not fall over</span>__.__


Scenario Two is China


Chinese mineral dominance leads to Chinese hegemony
Richardson '10
(Michael Richardson, senior research fellow at the Institute of South East Asian Studies in Singapore, 10/8/10, "China's Chokehold On Rare-Earth Minerals Raises Concerns, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/chinas-rare-earth-minerals GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Yet </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">China could keep its dominant grip on the rare-earths industry for some years</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">It</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> hold………………………….said that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">shortages of four rare earths</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> – lanthanum, cerium, europium and gadolinium – </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">had already caused delays in producing some weapons</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. It recommended further study to determine the severity of the delays.</span>


Extinction
Walton ’07
(C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49 GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Obviously, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">it is of vital importance to the United States that the PRC ………………….</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> in the creation of a healthy multipolar system that is not marked by close great power alliances.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strategic alteration between the U.S. and China is key to prevent war. Alternative’s attempt to wish away conflicting identities and goals fails. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Jennifer STERLING-FOLKERPoli Sci @ Connecticut (Stamford) AND Rosemary SHINKO IR @ Connecticut (Stamford) ‘5“Discourses of Power: Traversing the Realist-Postmodern Divide” Millennium 33 (3) p. 658-660</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Granting that </span>__postmodernism is seeking out the sources for radical change__ __in and of the We…………………… and practices,__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> and are in turn shaped by them. Thus we will miss the most essential link between that which changes (namely, history), and what remains the same (namely, structure).</span>


Technology

Contention Three is Technology

Scenario One is Nuclear Primacy,

We are upgrading the accuracy of nukes now – key to nuke primacy
Lieber and Press '07
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Keir A. Lieber, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, and Daryl G. Press is Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth, Winter 2007, "U.S. Nuclear Primacy and theFuture of the Chinese Deterrent", http://www.wsichina.org/\cs5_5.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Furthermore, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the United States continues to work to increase the lethality o……………. the future as U.S. weapons grow even more capable.</span>


Rare earth minerals key to upgrading the accuracy of first strike capabilities, nuclear deterrent, and drone capabilities
Kennedy 10
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(J. Kennedy, President of Wings Enterprises, March 2010, “Critical and Strategic Failure of Rare Earth Resources”, [[http://www.smenet.org/rareEarthsProject/TMS-NMAB-paperV-3.pdf//]] GH-aspomer)</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">national defense issues are </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">equally </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">important</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rare earths are critical ………………..strike vulnerability translates into risk exposure in every level of our national defense system</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, as the system is built around our presumptive technological and first-strike superiority. Yet the DoD has abandon its traditional procurement protocols for “strategic and critical” materials and components for weapons systems in favor of “the principles of free tradevii.”</span>


Conventional wars are inevitable - only nuclear primacy prevents escalation of inevitable wars against nuclear armed foes
Lieber and Press '09
(Keir A. Lieber, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, and Daryl G. Press is Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth, "The Nukes We Need", December 2009, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/21505695/The-Nukes-We-Need-Preserving-the-American-Deterrent//]] GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">This second criticism has merit. Nevertheless, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the benefits of ma…………………..largely on a bluff</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


Scenario Two is Innovation

Rare earths key to innovation – allow for more efficient technology
Levin Institute '10
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(10/15/10, "Rare Earth Elements Fueling Innovation", http://www.globalization101.org/news1/Rare-Earth-Elements </span>GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rare earth elements, the backbone of the green industry and …………………..produce the high-tech products without using REEs</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Japanese companies are experimenting with copper alloys and iron magnets to replace REEs in motors or hybrid vehicles and other products.19</span>


Maintaining innovation is key to prevent multiple scenarios for extinction
Perry et al 8
(William, Prof of Engineering @ Stanford, former Secretary of Defense and <span style="color: black;"> Under Deputy Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering</span>, “Grand Challenges For Engineering”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.engineeringchallenges.org/Object.File/Master/11/574/Grand%20Challenges%20final%20book.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Throughout human history, </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">……………………….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> user cooperation with new technologies.</span>


Our environmentalist reps are key to action
Frederick <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buell</span>20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>, Prof English at Queens College, From Apocalypse to Everyday life, 34-35
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Thus by the end of the 1970s, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">environmentalists were</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> regularly and extravagantly </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">vilified as</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> pathological crisis mongers</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">……………………. 1970s </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">apocalypticism became emeshed in; a richer </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and more self-reflective reimagining of environmental crisis is now well under way.</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> As subsequent chapters will show, life after apocalypse presents a more, not less, sobering picture of environmental crisis in progress than 1970s end of the world fantasies ever achieved.</span>


Scenario Three is Resource Wars

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: justify;">Chinese rare-earth dominance causes resource wars</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz ‘10</span>[Ariel, "The new resource wars: what if china stops exporting rare elements?" Sept. 23,]<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Earlier this week</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>____China halted all shipments of rare earth metals to Japan____…………….reliance on unstable regimes.__</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: justify;">Resource wars cause global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lendman ’07</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">(Stephen Lendman is a renowned author and Research Associate of the Center for Research on Globalization. Rense.com. “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them?” http://www.rense.com/general76/-resrouce.htm, July 2007)</span>
__With the world's energy supplies finite__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, </span>__the US heavily dependent on imports__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, </span>__.......................__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, or at least a big part of it, would have survived.</span>


Colonization

Contention Four is Colonization
<span class="DebateUnderline">Super volcanoes make extinction inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dworsky 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(D. Wayne Dworsky, Publisher and editor, cites scientific studies, February 6, 2009, http://www.americanchronicle.com/articles/view/90182)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While geologists were looking for evidence</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> ……………………..</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, some ten thousand times bigger..</span>


<span class="DebateUnderline">So do asteroids</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Siegfried 03 (W. H. Siegfried, Chief Project Engineer for Space Platforms and Exploration at The Boeing Company, 2003, Written for American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, http://www.aiaa.org/participate/uploads/acf628b.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Over the last decade a large mass of evidence has been accumulated indicating that near-Earth-object (</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">………………………..</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">it would allow civilization to expand into the high frontier.</span>



We have the tech to go into space but economic and motivational barriers prevent it – asteroid mining solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kew '11</span>
[Juliana Kew, Massachusetts Academy of Math and Science, 2011, no month or day, "Methods for Extracting Metals from Asteroids", pg. online @ www.scientiareview.org/pdfs/170.pdf gh-bprp]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, the frontier that seemed so promising in the mid-twentieth century</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">……………………….. for future operations.</span>



And it makes the moon and Mars easy – asteroid mining could fuel a depot which thirds the energy required for exploration
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sanchez and McInnes '10</span>
[J.P. Sanchez, Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory, University of Strathclyde, C.R. McInnes, Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory, University of Strathclyde, "Assessment on the Feasibility of Future Shepherding of Asteroid Resources", pg. online @strathprints.strath.ac.uk/27784/1/Sanchez_JP_-_strathprints_-_Assessment_on_the_feasibility_of_future_shepherding_of_asteroid_resources_26_Sept_2010.pdf gh-bprp]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The results shown from Fig. 8 to Fig. 10 indicate the ………………. possible sources of inaccuracy, the results shown in the paper should still hold their qualitative value.</span>



Asteroid mining provides economic security and feasibility for political support for colonization
Whittington ‘05
(Mark Whittington, written numerous articles, some for the Washington Post, USA Today, the LA Times and books about space, 11/15/05, "Riches in the Sky: The Promise of Asteroid Mining", http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/11560/riches_in_the_sky_the_promise_of_asteroid_pg4.html?cat=58 GH – aspomer and bprp)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">To get an idea of just how much wealth is to be had from asteroids, one can examine 3554 ……………………… that takes humanity to the stars.</span>



Large-scale colonization of Mars is feasible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zubrin 95</span>
(Robert, PhD in Nuclear Engineering from University of Washington, senior engineer with Marietta Astronautics company, “The Economic Viability of Mars Colonization”, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.22.749&rep=rep1&type=pdf) PS
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">But the biggest problem with the Moon, as with all other airless planetary bodies …………………… the solar system where humans will be able to grow crops for export. </span>


<span class="Author-Date">A successful mission would cause the private sector to follow and enable colonization and asteroid deflection</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sonter '06</span>
[Mark Sonter, independant scientific mining consultant and professor of Physics and University of Papau New Ginea, "Asteroid Mining: Key to the Space Economy", pg. online @ www.space.com/2032-asteroid-mining-key-space-economy.html gh-bprp]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> The Near Earth </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asteroids</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> offer both threat and promise. …………………….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NEAs will be the company-making mines of the 21st century.</span>


<span class="DebateUnderline">Space solves disease – flight study</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Siegfried 03 (W. H. Siegfried, Chief Project Engineer for Space Platforms and Exploration at The Boeing Company, 2003, Written for American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, http://www.aiaa.org/participate/uploads/acf628b.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Many current human ………………… Space Colonization.</span>


Extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yu 09</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> [Victoria, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” Dartmouth Journal of Undergraduate Science, May 22, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]</span>
__In the past, humans have indeed ………………... into a human-viable strain__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (10). </span>


Theoretical criticism doesn’t disprove our __specific claims__ --- factual statements about space require __technical expertise__ to disprove
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Yudkowsky 6</span>
(Eliezer, Research Fellow and Director – Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment of Global Risks”, Forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, ed. Bostrum, 8-31, http://www.singinst.org/ourresearch/publications/cognitive-biases.pdf)
Every true idea which discomforts you ………………………... Do not take your eye off the ball.

Solvency

<span class="Author-Date">Observation Five is Solvency</span>
NASA demonstration solves and can replace status quo space missions
Crandall et. al 11
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[William BC Crandall, MBA and Founder of Space Wealth, Larry Gorman Ph. D., professor of Finance, Cal Poly, Peter Howard, Ph. D. Senior Scientist, Exellxis, Inc., Frans von der Dunk, Ph. D., Professory of Space Law, University of Nebraska, "Martin Elvis, Ph. D., Senior Astrophysicist, Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Dante Lauretta, Ph. D., Director of Southwest Meteorite Center at the University of Arizona, Jordi Puig-Suari, Ph. D., Professor of Aerospace Engineering at Cal Poly, Hon. Andrea Seastrand, Executive Director of California Space Authority, Mark Sonter, Asteroid Enterprises, 2/23/11, "Is Profitable Asteroid Mining a Pragmatic Goal?", pg. online @ http://spacewealth.org/files/Is-P@M-Pragmatic-2011-02-23.pdf </span>bprp]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">With a mission to accelerate development of valuable mineral solar system resources, ………………………….. The skills and tools that we require from our cooperating space agencies are drawn from many domains. We need to: </span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A manned mission is possible</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ingerbretsen '01</span> [Mark Ingerbretsen, Contributing Editor for IEEE, "Mining Asteroids", pg. online @ ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=938712&tag=1 gh-bprp]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mining</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">multiple </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">resourcescalls for sophisticated mining</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> a…………………….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> have known parameters, which can be budgeted for</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>


Don’t read a Privatization CP:

First, Government funded private enterprises empirically fail – funding is not dependable
Dinerman ‘10
Taylor Dinerman is a well-known and respected space writer regarding military and civilian space activities since 1983.
Space: The Final Frontier of Profit? A debate on the pros and cons of commercializing the cosmos; valuing asteroids at $20 trillion each. Taylor Dinerman makes a case against private space. 2-13-2010
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703382904575059263418508030.html
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The private sector simply is not …………………….. NASA withdrew financing.</span>


<span class="Author-Date">Second, </span>Government is superior because there is no current market in space
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gerlach ‘05</span>
[Charles L.<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gerlach</span> 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span> INTERNATIONAL SPACE DEVELOPMENT CONFERENCE, National Space Society, Washington, DC, May 19–22, 2005, Profitably Exploiting Near-Earth Object Resources, , Gerlach Space Systems LLC, CEO of Gerlach Space Systems LLC (GSS), former law professor, graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School.]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">While untested and fraught with e…………………….</span><span class="underline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">except</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to supply government-sponsored activities.</span>__</span>


<span class="Author-Date">Third, </span>Asteroid mining boosts investor confidence causing the private sector to follow – allows for world-wide access to minerals
ISU ‘10
(International Space University, a Space Studies Program, “Asteroid Mining, Technologies Roadmap, and Applications,” http://www.mendeley.com/research/asteroid-mining-technologies-roadmap-and-applications-final-report GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The R&D phase will probably ……………………. the timeline of investments required during various phases of the mission. </span>


<span class="Author-Date">And, Deep sea extraction is impossible</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ausick'11</span>[Paul Ausick, energy editor at 24/7 Wall St., 7/05/2011, 'Commodities Watch: Deap-sea Rare Earth Mining Likely a Long Ways Off", pg. online @ 247wallst.com/2011/07/05/commodities-watch-deep-sea-rare-earth-mining-likely-a-long-ways-off-mcp-avl-ree-shz-remx gh-bprp]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The announcement that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japanese scientists …………….the available supply.</span>


<span class="Author-Date">Minerals on earth are in too low concentrations</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Masote '11</span> [Mamello Masote, Businesslive, 7/24/2011, "Rare earth demand on the rise", pg. online @ www.businesslive.co.za/southafrica/2011/07/24/rare-earth-demand-on-the-rise gh-bprp]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While demand for rare ………………….. REM mining,”</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Wakeford said.</span>


<span class="Author-Date">Legislative hurdles mean a 5-year wait for domestic mining</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morton'11</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> [Joseph Morton, the World Herald Bureau, 5/08/2011, "Rare-earth mining bills debated", pg. online @ www.omaha.com/article/20110608/NEWS01/706089924/0</span>// gh-bprp]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> WASHINGTON — </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The quantity and ………………………</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">project forward? No. Is it ... extremely helpful? Yes.” </span>


Using propellant from the asteroid solves – breaks logistical bottleneck
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sonter 02</span>
(Mark <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sonter</span>, independent scientific consultant working in the Australian mining and metallurgical industries, former University Physics lecturer in Papua New Guinea, postgraduate studies in medical physics, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span>, “Asteroid Mining”)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Future large-scale space ………………………..</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">and humankind's expansion into the solar system.</span>




==2ACs== 
===Debris=== 

Innovation is key to solve space debris
Network World 10 (business news, "NASA identifies Top Ten space junk missions", 7/28/10, http://atomicrockets.posterous.com/nasa-identifies-top-ten-space-junk-missions//ghs-avi)
__While the junk seems to be piling up, there are ,,, delayed and no new launch date has been set.__

===Weaponization=== 

Indonesia weaponizing now
<span style="font-size: 16px;">China Military News ‘11</span>
**Posted on 14 April 20**<span style="font-size: 16px;">11</span>**,** [[http://www.china-defense-mashup.com/china-helps-indonesia-develop-missile-weapons.html|**China Helps Indonesia Develop Missile Weapons**]] **http://www.china-defense-mashup.com/china-helps-indonesia-develop-missile-weapons.html**
2011-04-14 (China Military News cited from strategypage.com) -- China has agreed to help Indonesia establish weapons <span class="DebateUnderline">…</span> much lower price, is enough to get the sale

Weaponization inevitable – political will
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Marshall et al 05</span> (William S <span style="font-size: 16px;">Marshall et al</span>, Former Research Fellow, International Security Program, Chairman, Space Generation Advisory Council, NASA/Ames Research Center, George Whitesides, former Chief of Staff of NASA, former Executive Director of the National Space Society, Robert Schingler, Chief of Staff, Office of the Chief Technologist at NASA, Andre Nilsen, the Chairman and Managing Director of the OCGG, Kevin Parkin, M.Phys. 1999, University of Leicester. M.S. 2001, Caltech. Ph.D. 2006, Caltech, member of the Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley Research Staff, Deputy Director of the Mission Design Center at NASA Ames, and project lead for the Microwave Thermal Rocket, 20<span style="font-size: 16px;">05</span>, “Space weapons: the urgent debate,” ISYP Journal on Science and World Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 1)
At the same time <span class="DebateUnderline">as the technological and …</span>decision on deployment could therefore be impending.

Space weapons solve terror
William <span style="font-size: 16px;">Marshall et al ‘05</span>. ,Former Research Fellow from the International Security Program at the Belfer Centre for Science and International Affairs 2004-2007 and Chairman, Space Generation Advisory Council, NASA/Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA, George Whitesides, former Executive Director of the National Space Society, Robert Schingler, special assistant to NASA Ames Research Center Director, Andre Nilsen, Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the Oxford Council on Good Governance, and Kevin Parkin, member of the Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley Research Staff, Deputy Director of the Mission Design Center at NASA Ames, and project lead for the Microwave Thermal Rocket, prof physics, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2005</span>, “Space weapons: the urgent debate” http://www.scienceandworldaffairs.org/PDFs/MarshallEtAl_Vol1.pdf
Second, also in a medium-term perspective, <span class="DebateUnderline">looking …</span> those threats from space on similarly short time scales.

Extinction
Alexander ‘03
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Yonah, Prof, Dir – Inter-University for Terrorism Studies, Washington Times, 8-28, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Unlike their historical counterparts,</span>contemporary …in spite of terror<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, victory however long and hard the road may be:</span>For without victory, there is no survival."

Weaponization deters arms __[[home|race]]__
Dolman ‘03
Everett C. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman</span>, Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2003</span>. “Space Power and US Hegemony,” [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf]]
Space<span class="DebateUnderline"> has the unique capacity of </span>being the “unflankable” <span class="DebateUnderline">… bent on world domination and oppression can</span>.

A US/China war is inevitable – space weapons determine victory
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Everett </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Dolman</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2010</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">“The Case for Weapons in Space: a Geopolitical Assessment,” p. SSRN</span>
The coming war with China will be fought for control <span class="DebateUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> People’s Republic of </span>China are on a collision course for war<span class="DebateUnderline">.</span>


===<span class="DebateUnderline">Politics</span>=== 
<span class="Author-Date">**Note: I've been known to lay down some uniqueness when in the mood**</span>

<span class="Author-Date">Plan popular despite spending – Congress wants to maintain leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Putrich 10</span>
GAYLE PUTRICH, writer for Flight International WASHINGTON DC NASA funding bill approved INTRODUCTION: SECTION: SPACEFLIGHT. Date Published: 10-12-10 Date accessed: 7-20-11. Published via Flight International. Lexis Academic
__[[home|Science and technology]]__ committee chairman Bart __[[home|Gordon]]__ says … still hold the option of approving actual spending below the authorised limits.
__[[home|Winners]]__ __[[home|win]]__
Singer 9<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jonathan, 3/3/9, MyDD, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital” http://mydd.com/2009/3/3/by-expending-capital-obama-grows-his-capital)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Peter Hart gets at a key point. __Some …__ healthcare to energy reform to ending the war in Iraq. </span>


==Add-ons== 
===Afghan Stability=== 
Rare earth dependency causes Afghanistan instability
Brigaldino '10
**(Glenn Brigaldino, political analyst and commentator on international affairs. As a specialist in partnership-based development cooperation, focused on Africa and Asia, writes for Toward Freedom, "Spinning a Resource War in Afghanistan", 7/8/10, http://www.towardfreedom.com/middle-east/2021-surprise-surprise-treasures-in-the-dirt//GH-aspomer)**
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">It has taken some years, but now the numbers are coming in and adding … country's largest development project to the Chinese mining firm. (13)</span>
Afghanistan instability causes extinction
Morgan ‘7
(Stephen John <span style="font-size: 16px;">Morgan 7</span>, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee & a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, "Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?", http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Although disliked and despised in many …Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!</span>


===Science Diplomacy-Russia=== 
Science Diplomacy is key to check US-Russia miscalc
Fedoroff ‘8
(Nina -- Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID Testimony Before the House Science Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, 4/2, http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102996.htm)
The recent elimination of funding for FY08 U.S. contributions to …U.S. and abroad among our allies, __to advance U.S. interests in foreign policy__.
That’s is the only scenario for extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bostrom 2- Nick Bostrom, Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, Journal of Evolution and Technology (March 2002, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”) SP</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">A much greater existential risk emerged …</span> we will encounter in the 21st century.
===Warming=== 

REEs are key to technologies in the green revolution- key to solve warming
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sandalow 10</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> – David Sandalow, Assistant Secretary for Policy & International Affairs at the Department of Energy, March 17, 2010, Keynote Address at the Technology and Rare Earth Metals Conference 2010, online: http://www.pi.energy.gov/documents/Sandalow_Rare_Earth_Speech_-_final_%282%29.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">This transition is already well underway. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">The world is on </span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">…</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> as encouraging our trading partners to expedite the environmentally-sound creation of alternative supplies.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">USSG 1AC</span>== 

Plan Text

Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its civil space situational awareness by creating a Space Guard.

Debris

Observation One: Debris
All Qualified experts __[[home|agree]]__ – Orbital debris is at the tipping point – failure to control it collapses our space assets
The Telegraph 2k11
(“Space so full of junk that a satellite collision could destroy communications on Earth,” February, pg online @ [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/Space-so-full-of-junk-that-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html]] ghs-bprp)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space so full of junk ………………</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">the World Cup next month in Johannesburg."</span>


And, That Wipes Out Humanity
Hoffman 98
Nuclear Power Expert. Regular Columnist, Radio Talk Show Host, High Tech Today, Radio Show, Russell D., 1/23, High Tech Today, Radio Show, http://www.animatedsoftware.com/spacedeb/spacedeb.htm)
We don’t endorse gendered language.
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">So to that extent this is not something y…………………………….. Our duty to evolution. Our duty to our civilization's history of exploration and discovery! Yet in this attempt we have failed miserably.</span>


The Plan advances a space legal regime in the short term and builds global support to solve debris and collisions
Hays 2k10
(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” December 13, 2010, NDU Press Chapter 28, pg online @ [http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]greenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Most </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">spacefaring actorsunderstand the merits…………………………..</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> and indemnifying program operators, even if they provide faulty data that results in a collision, so long as they operate in good faith, exercise reasonable care, and follow established procedures. </span>


Space law prevents extinction
Hays 2k10
(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” December 13, 2010, NDU Press Chapter 28, pg online @ [http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html]greenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Other </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">impediments to further developing ………………………..</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">generate support for better space law, and ultimately nurture the spacepower needed to improve our odds for survival.</span>


And, a Cooperative Space Situational Awareness Effort Results Active Debris Removal – U.S. Efforts are Critical
Weeden 2k9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brian Weeden, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena. His wealth of technical knowledge has established him as a thought leader for providing critical analysis that supports development of space policy on a global scale. Prior to joining the Foundation, Mr. Weeden served nine years on active duty as an officer in the United States Air Force working in space and ICBM operations. As part of U.S. Strategic Command's Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), Captain Weeden directed the orbital analyst training program and developed tactics, techniques and procedures for improving space situational awareness. In his current role as Technical Advisor, Mr. Weeden conducts research on global space situational awareness, space traffic management, protection of space assets, and prevention of conflict in space. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">More recently, we have also learned that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the space …………………….</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">relying on the “big space” theory to ensure that no collisions happen.</span>


And developing space law resulting from the plan enables protection of __[[home|intellectual property]]__ for debris removal mechanisms
Weeden 2k11
(Brian, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena, February 1, 2011, “Overview of the legal and policy challenges of orbital debris removal” Space Policy 27 (2011) 38e43, pg online @ sciencedirectgreenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">3.8. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Removal of debris</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> objects </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">r…………………..whichwill reduce the chances for misperceptions and mistrust</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


Space IPR Spills over terrestrially
Brisibe 2k6
(Tare, PhD and Legal Services and International Cooperation Head at the Universtity Of Mississippi School of Law, JOURNAL OF SPACE Law, “Outer Space Activities and IntellectualProperty Protection in Nigeria” Volume 32, No. 2, Winter 2006, pg onlinegreenhill-au)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">It has been argued that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the simultaneously ………………….</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">and is not addressed.</span>


<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: justify;">Domestic and International IPR enforcement restores competitiveness and makes trade effective</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Reuters 2k10</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">(“US says protecting IP rights a top trade priority” April 26, 2010, pg online @ [http://www.theglobalipcenter.com/news/us-says-protecting-ip-rights-top-trade-priority]greenhill-au)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">"</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">tates </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">has ……………… U.S. and internationally</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">," said Mark Esper, executive vice president of the Chambers' Global Intellectual Property Center.</span></span>


<span style="color: black;">Trade is inevitable – it’s only a question of whether it’s cooperative or not – US trade leadership is vital to prevent trading blocs that result in global conflicts</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Bergsten</span><span style="color: black;">, Director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics & former Assistant Secretary for International Affairs at the Treasury Department, 9-27-</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="color: black;"> (C. Fred, “America and the World,” The Economist, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291</span>arnav-kejriwal)
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">Third, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">American leadership has been …………….staying power in other respects.</span>


Nuclear war
Spicer 96
(British Member of Parliament and Chairperson of the European Research Group, Michael, The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, New York: St. Martin’s Press, p. 121)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The choice facing ………………..premium in the years ahead</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


Situational Awareness is at a CRITICAL Stage Now – An International Regime is Necessary but lack of a new dedicated civilian organization means efforts will fail
Bennett 2k10
(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model:A Third Organizational Option For InternationalSSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]] ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Recent events have underscored the reality that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">current …………………be distrustful of the USAF as a collaborative partner</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


And, Only the Plan Can Create an Effective SSA Program

Bennett 2k10
(James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model:A Third Organizational Option For InternationalSSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, pg online @ [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]] ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">3</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. A US Space ……………………. Commandant of the Space Guard.</span>


And, a U.S.-Led cooperative SSA establishes a legal regime that prevents miscalc and engenders international cooperation
Weeden 2k9
(Brian Weeden, is a technical consultant for the Secure World Foundation and former U.S. Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">SSA as the Foundation </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">International civil……………………..benefit of all humankind</span>

Air Force

Observation Two: Air Force Credibility –
First, the Air Force is Overstretched Now – a new focus on warfighting is critical to air power and deterrence
Moseley 2k7
(18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force [General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” <span style="font-size: 12pt;">CSAF White Paper</span>, 29 Dec 2007, pg. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No modern war has been won ………………………………………</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">dominance is essential to victory. Pg. 2-9 </span>1ac


And, funding trade-offs make this problem worse
McKinley 2k
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @ [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]] </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Funding Tensions </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">This cultural stress is exacerbated ……………………………current responsibilities</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


And, the plan re-balances Air Force priorities and ensures space services get their own funding and support agency
McKinley 2k
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, pg online @ [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]] </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The United States Space Guard Looking at the space side of that list, we must ask the inevitable question</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, ………………………..</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. On a larger scale, the nation will have reduced the size of its force structure while improving its ability to exploit space for national benefit.</span>


And, an Effective Air Force Prevents Conflicts Over India-Pakistan, South China Sea and Deters CBW Attacks
Tellis et al ‘98
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @ [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]] </span>ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">REGIONAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication ……………………………………. and possibly even the revolution in military affairs.</span>


Indo-Pak nuclear war wipes out the plan – computer models prove
__[[home|GSN]]__ 10
(Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” [[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Computer modeling ………………………………..</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">Rutgers University in New Jersey, and Owen Brian Toon, head of the Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Department at the University of Colorado at Boulder.</span>


And, South China Sea war draws in major powers and escalates
Waldron 97
(Arthur, professor of Strategy and Policy at the Naval War College Commentary, 3-1, [[http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp]])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Then there is Southeast Asia, which, having weathered the ……………………………..</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the United States. </span>

NASA Cred

Observation three: NASA Credibility

NASA is spread too thin--gaps and structural problems make any form of progress impossible
Bennett 11 (James C. Bennett, Adjunct Senior Fellow of the Hudson Institute; author of The Anglosphere Challenge, "Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space", Winter 2011, The New Atlantis, Written for George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-spaceghs-avi)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Yet </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the notion that there is a …………………………..miniscule</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> compared to NASA’s. </span>


And, the plan solves – it reduces bureaucracy, increases coordination and refocuses NASA
Engineering Ethics 11 (Written by a consulting engineer and who teaches engineering courses at Texas State University; citing James C. Bennett, "From NASA to USSG: Fixing the U. S. Space Programs", 6/20/11,
engineeringethicsblog.blogspot.com/2011/06/from-nasa-to-ussg-fixing-u-s-space.htmlghs-avi)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The domination by NASA ………………………………</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">common sense will prevail over the less salutary aspects of politics, and we’ll do the right thing about it. </span>

NASA credibility is key to effective Earth sciences solves the environment and extinction
Killeen 5 (PhD, Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">It is clear after decades of pioneering ……………………………….</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> simultaneous multiple stresses. </span>

Environmental destruction is the biggest cause of civilization collapse, instability and war--thousands of years of history proves
Diamond 3 (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jared Diamond is a professor of geography and of environmental health sciences at UCLA. His book </span>Guns, Germs, and Steel: the Fates of Human Societies won a 1998 Pulitzer Prize, "The Last Americans: Environmental Collapse and the End of Civilization", June 2003, Harper's Magazine, www.mindfully.org/Heritage/2003/Civilization-Collapse-EndJun03.htmghs-avi)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">One of the disturbing facts of history is that so many …………………………………….. be undermined by details of rainfall, farming methods, and motives of leaders</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>

Solvency

Observation Four: Solvency
And, it establishes a Space Guard built on Civilian SSA – that spills-over to shift functions from other agencies
Bennett 2k11
(James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” pg online @ http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space// ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">3. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">New responsibilities</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. In addition ………………………………</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">unusual history</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">. The agency’s scope of responsibilities, while still broad, would nevertheless be reduced sufficiently to alleviate its chronic span-of-control issues.</span>

==Bronx== 

===Indonesia Scenario=== 

NASA effectiveness is key to Indonesian relations
The Orlando Sentinel '10
(2/16/10, "NASA plans more outreach to Muslim countries", http://creepingsharia.wordpress.com/2010/02/17/obama-cuts-us-space-program-orders-nasa-to-work-with-muslim-countriesGH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In his budget proposal, President ........................</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">to establish partners there</span>,”<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Bolden said. </span>
Relations key to Indonesian stability and stopping JI
Loham '10
(Walter Loham, Director of the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation, 3/4/10, "U.S.-Indonesia Relations: Build for Endurance, Not Speed", http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/03/us-indonesia-relations-build-for-endurance-not-speedGH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Abstract: </span>The relationship between America and I........................<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> of the relationship that are currently bearing fruit. </span>

Indonesian collapse makes every impact inevitable
Annan 10 (Kofi, Ghanaian diplomat who was a former Secretary-General of the United Nations, "The Challenges for Leaders in a Multipolar World", 3/4/10., http://kofiannanfoundation.org/newsroom/speeches/2010/03/challenges-leaders-multipolar-worldghs-avi)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">This progress - in the face of many ................................</span> the world’s problems.

JI causes extinction
Bunn ‘10
(Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, (Matthew, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” project on managing the atom belfer center for science and international affairs harvard kennedy school harvard university commissioned by the nuclear threat initiative, April, http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdfGH-aspomer)
Complacency about the threat ........................<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> an extraordinarily difficult challenge.20</span>


===Warming Scenario=== 

Scientific consensus confirms that positive feedback cycles lock in warming now – only sequestration solves
Solomon et al‘10
(Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ph.D. in Climotology University of California, Berkeley, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP), 8/31/10, “Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases,” PNAS vol. 107, no. 43, http://www.pnas.org/content/107/43/18354.full.pdf+htmlGH-aspomer)
Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,..................................<span style="font-size: 7px; line-height: 10px;"> This paper focuses on emissions over a century.</span>


Innovation key to carbon sequestration
Huesemann '06
(Michael H. Huesemann, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Marine Sciences Laboratory, "Can Advances in Science and Technology Prevent Global Warming?", 2006, www.ghgonline.org/Huesemann-ClimateChangeMitigation.pdfGH-aspomer)
One option<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, of course, </span>is to.............................<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> with fossil fuels, let alone cheaper. </span>



Extinction

Tickell 8 (Oliver Tickell, Climate Researcher, 8/11/2008, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, The Guardian, Proquest)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global ...............................</span><span class="underline"> similar hothouse Earth. </span>


===AT China Currency=== 

No trade war – China still wants access to US consumers
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US News & World Report, 10/13/11</span>

The remedy<span class="underline"> proposed in Congress is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an </span><span class="underline">effective</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one. </span><span class="underline">It </span>will not spark a trade war<span class="underline">, ............. since 2005 to avoid threatened sanctions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===New Plan Text=== 
Text: The United States federal government should develop Space Guard civil space situational awareness.



==UT== 
===DSCOVR Scenario=== 
NASA is spread too thin--gaps and structural problems make any form of progress impossible
Bennett 11 (James C. Bennett, Adjunct Senior Fellow of the Hudson Institute; author of //The Anglosphere Challenge//, "Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space", Winter 2011, The New Atlantis, Written for George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space//ghs-avi)//
//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Yet </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the notion that there is a space program</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> …</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">manpower and budget are miniscule</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> compared to NASA’s. </span>//
//And, the plan solves – it reduces bureaucracy, increases coordination and refocuses NASA//
//Engineering Ethics 11 (Written by a consulting engineer and who teaches engineering courses at Texas State University; citing James C. Bennett, "From NASA to USSG: Fixing the U. S. Space Programs", 6/20/11,//
//engineeringethicsblog.blogspot.com/2011/06/from-nasa-to-ussg-fixing-u-s-space.html//ghs-avi)
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">The domination by NASA of </span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">virtually …</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, reason and common sense will prevail over the less salutary aspects of politics, and we’ll do the right thing about it. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA bureaucracy kills DSCOVR and sun monitoring which is key to the power grid</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Donahue ‘11</span>
(Bill Donahue, Writer in Popular Science, “The Lost Satellite,” <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb242/is_201104/ai_n57242243/pg_2/?tag=content;col1]]</span>//GH-aspomer)//

//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">This all seemed like promising news until I visited NOAA, where I realized that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">…Deep Space Climate Observatory mission that would do no climate observing.</span>//
//DSCOVR provides microbe data which solves oxygen depletion//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brand ‘07</span>//
//(Stewart Brand, founder and editor of the Whole Earth Catalog, president of the Long Now Foundation, co-founder of Global Business Network. 12/5/07, “Earth Monitoring: Whole Earth comes into focus”, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v450/n7171/full/450797a.html/GH-aspomer|http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v450/n7171/full/450797a.html//GH-aspomer]]</span>)//
//__<span style="font-size: 16px;">When DSCOVR</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, or better, </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">gets installed, …</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> manage to keep this planet comfortably terraformed for life, we would begin to step up to the full meaning of Earth stewardship. </span>//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Declining oxygen levels trigger positive feedback loops that decimate biodiversity and fish populations</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zimmer '10</span>**//
//(Carl Zimmer, author of thirteen books about science, writes for Discover, National Geographic, and the NY Times, "A Looming Oxygen Crisis andIts Impact on World’s Oceans", 8/5/10, yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2301//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">The Deepwater Horizon oil spill is overshadowing another catastrophe that’s also …. They may thus leave more food for bacteria, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">spurring a further drop in oxygen levels</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.</span>
Ocean biodiversity key to solve extinction
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Craig ‘03</span>
Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law, 2003
(McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, … about the sea, but we do know this much: </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">if we kill the ocean we kill ourselves,</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and we will take most of the biosphere with us.</span>__
Fish scarcity causes extinction
Jeffers '10
(Jennifer Jeffers, M.S. from the Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, received the Ellis J. Harmon Prize for legal writing in environmental law and policy and is an all-around swell person, “Climate Change and the Arctic: Adapting to Changes in Fisheries Stocks and Governance Regimes”, www.boalt.org/elq/documents/elq37_3_03_jeffers_2010_1009.pdf//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Rising atmospheric temperatures, warming sea water, and …</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> increasingly asserting claims over the region.8 </span>__
==Blake== 
===Japanese Soft Power=== 
Failure to share US data causes Japan to follow suit
Kelso 2k7
(T.S, PhD in Operations Research, MS in Space Operations at Air Force Institute of Technology, BS in Physics at US Air Force Academy and is currently senior research astrodynamicist at the Center for Space Standards and Innovation, “Forum on National Security Space Examining Codes and Rules for Space” The George C. Marshall Institute, June 27, 2007, pg online//greenhill-au)//
//The problem, of course, has more to do with data … doing so for their own IGS satellites.//
//Japanese SSA key to their Soft power and US-Japanese relations//
//Kobayashi ’11//
//(Yoshinori Kobayashi, Japan Space Forum, former visiting researcher at the European Space Policy Institute, “Cooperation between Japan and Europe in the Space Situational Awareness (SSA) Field”, ESPI Perspectives No. 53, October 2011//GH-aspomer)
Japanese space activities shall be …Japanese part of global SSA, with each ministry, JAXA and JSF contributing.
Northern Territories dispute has reached newest low, Japanese diplomacy is key NOW
LA Times 2/14/11 (John M. Glionna, “Longtime Japanese-Russian feud over islands reaches new diplomatic low”, http://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/world/la-fg-japan-disputed-islands-20110214,0,1863767.story//greenhill-sb)//
//They're a chain of windswept, … islands an "inseparable" part of Russia.//
//The Kuril islands dispute jeopardizes Japanese economic aid in the Far East and Russian economic stability//
//Andersen 5//
//Department of Political Science at the University of Victoria, 10-3-5 (Andrea, “South Kuriles/Northern Territories: A Stumbling-block in Russia-Japan Relations,” http://www.prokarelia.net/fi/?x=artikkeli&article_id=600&author=62)//
//The current state of Russo-Japanese … (in cases when Russian coast guard fires at Japanese fishing vessels).//
//Russian economic decline causes nuclear war and extinction//
//Filger 9 – Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” online://
//http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html \//
//… financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.//
//And, Japanese Diplomacy Solves EVERY Impact//
//Funabashi 2k9//
//(Yoichi “Japan should resuscitate its feeble diplomacy,” East Asia Forum, pg online @ http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/04/29/japan-should-resuscitate-its-feeble-diplomacy/// ghs-ef)
Japan must also undertake a stronger … 2020. This lack of political leadership will not create any momentum for green diplomacy.

====Nuclear Safety Addon==== 
Japanese investment in the Far East solves Russian nuclear security
Bellona 2002
The Bellona Foundation, 10-05-2002, An international environmental NGO based in Norway,
http://www.bellona.org/english_import_area/international/russia/navy/pacific/general/26645
Further Japanese investment could do about is that we don't want to retain the money."

Low level radioactive waste causes extinction
Caldicott 2009
Dr. Helen Caldicott, being cited by Planet Green. Com. 6-05-2009, “Low Level Radioactive Waste: LLRW”. Nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, Physician, and recognized as one of the most influential women in the 21st century
http://planetgreen.discovery.com/tech-transport/green-glossary-radioactive-waste.html
For radioactive waste to qualify as …humanity has ever experienced."
Decaying nuclear waste is a ticking time bomb-a nuclear reaction in Russia’s Artic will cause a massive nuclear accident threatening human life
Shields 2007,
Rachel Shields, 7-10-2007, “ Dirty timebomb' ticking in Russian nuclear dump threatens Europe”
http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/news/world-news/dirty-timebomb-ticking-in-russian-nuclear-dump-threatens-europe-14465525.html
20,000 discarded uranium fuel rods …disruption beyond the threat to life.

==Harvard== 

===Weather Mod 1AC=== 


Contention One is Debris

Orbital debris is at the tipping point and threatens our space assets
Carreau 12/1
(Mark Carreau, staff writer for Aviation Week, "Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval", 12/1/11, www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval//GH-aspomer)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">HOUSTON – </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The world</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">’s space-faring … explosion or weakened pressure tank. </span>//


//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, there are no clean up efforts in the status quo</span>**//
//**Ansdell '10**//
//**(Megan Ansdell, second year graduate student in George Washington University's School of International Affairs, 2010, "Recommendations for Today's Geopolitical Environment", pg. online @ www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf)**//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Efforts to reduce space debris … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">effective space debris removal systems. </span>//


//Space debris will inevitably increases without launches because of random collisions//
//**Lovgren 06**//
//**[Stefan, National Geographic News contributor and winner of the 2008 AAAS Science Journalism Award,**//
//**Space Junk Cleanup Needed, NASA Experts Warn, National Geographic News, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2006/01/0119_060119_space_junk.html]**//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Space is filling up with … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it will only get worse."</span>__//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Debris wipes out critical satellites which causes extinction</span>**//
//**Williamson** **2k8**//
//**(Ray, PhD in astronomy and BS in Physics, Executive Director of Secure World Foundation and serves on Commission Five: Space Policies, Law & Economics and the author of more than 100 articles on space policy, remote sensing and space security and has led more than a dozen space policy studies requested by Congressional committees, “Minding the (Space) Environment” Imaging Notes, Volume 23 Number 1, Spring 2008, pg online @ [http://www.imagingnotes.com/go/article_free.php?mp_id=131]**//**greenhill-au)**
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Most </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">remote sensing</span>__ __satellites are …__ <span style="font-size: 5pt;">and was approved in October 2007.</span>



And, it makes space unusable
**Hoffman 98**
Nuclear Power Expert. Regular Columnist, Radio Talk Show Host, High Tech Today, Radio Show, Russell D., 1/23, High Tech Today, Radio Show, http://www.animatedsoftware.com/spacedeb/spacedeb.htm)
We don’t endorse gendered language.
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">So to that extent this … attempt we have failed miserably.</span>


And, the plan slows down debris so that it falls out of orbit and burns up in the atmosphere
Dunn '07
***WCS = Weather Control System**
**(James Dunn, Principle Investigator and Program Manager for the development of Curriculums and Enterprise related to Renewable Energy Systems, "WCS - Using weather mirrors for collecting space debris", 10/21/07,jamesbdunn.multiply.com/journal/item/39/WCS_-_Using_weather_mirrors_for_collecting_space_debris_//GH-aspomer)//**
**//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">WCS - Using weather mirrors for … agency must be ethically structured.</span>//**


**//Contention Two is Warming//**
**//Scientific consensus confirms that positive feedback cycles lock in warming now – only the plan solves//**
**//Solomon et al ‘10//**
**//(Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences … /content/107/43/18354.full.pdf+html//GH-aspomer)**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">focuses on emissions over a century.</span>**


**Warming is real and will only get worse with positive feedback loops – this will cause diseases, kill the economy, spur mass migrations and nuclear war**
**Kaku '11**
**(Dr. Michio Kaku, professor of theoretical physics at the City University of New York; cofounder of string field theory;and the bestselling author of several widely acclaimed science books, "Physics of the Future", 2011, www.drskoot.com/public/Public Files/Physics/Michio Kaku-Physics_of_the_Future/Physics of the Future - How Science Will Shape Human Destiny and Our Daily Lives by the Year 2100.pdf//GH-aspomer)//**
**//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By midcentury, the full impact … </span>__//**//__a runaway cycle of global warming.__//


//**Deniers are paid off and avoid peer review – our authors are backed by scientific data**//
//**Lewandowsky and Ashley '11**//
//**(Stephan Lewandowsky, Australian Professional Fellow, Cognitive Science Laboratories at the University of Western Australia, Michael Ashley, Professor of Astrophysics at University of New South Wales, "The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change", 6/24/11, theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558**//**GH-aspopmer)**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">But despite these complexities, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">some … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">alleged “vested interests” of scientists. </span>**


**Our environmental discourse be ballin’**
Hough 4
**(Peter Hough is a Senior … __Global Security__ pg 134//Greenhill-chris)//**
**//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The Copenhagen School's summation of … cannot evolve in a similar manner.</span>//**


**//Plan solves warming – ionization keeps particulates in the air to block out sunlight and counteract the greenhouse effect//**
**//Castle ’03//**
**//(Dr. R. Michael Castle, a Polymer Chemist and an Environmental Professional whom holds a National Certification for Environmental Risk Assessment, “The Methodic Demise of Natural Earth, An Environmental Impact Overview”, 9/28/03, http://www.bariumblues.com/methodic_demise_of_natural_earth.htm//GH-aspomer**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Dr. Edward </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Teller</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> wrote a white … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Modification and Geo-Engineering</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">practices.</span>__**

**Contention Three is Air Power**

**China will use cloud seeding to destabilize Asia and prevent US rapid response**
**Lele '09**
**(Ajey Lele, writer at Institute for Defence Studies & Analyses, 10/12/09, "China’s Experiments with Weather Modification: A Cause for Concern", www.idsa.in/node/3267/1727//GH-aspomer)//**
**//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An important facet of China’s … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">and ratify the ENMOD Convention.</span>//**


**//The plan is key to countering China and allowing for an effective Air response//**
**//Mercer et al ‘96//**
**//(“Weather as a Force Multiplier: Owning the Weather in 2025”, Col Tamzy J. House, Lt Col James B. Near, Jr., LTC William B. Shields (USA), Maj, Ronald J. Celentano, Maj David M. Husband, Maj Ann E. Mercer, Maj James E. Pugh, All are in Air Force, 1996, pdf//GH-aspomer)**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In 2025, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US aerospace forces can “… increase them for the enemy. </span>__**


**Rapid response capabilities prevent Conflicts Over India-Pakistan, Korea, and Taiwan**
**Tellis et al ‘98**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, pg online @ [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]] //ghs-ef)//</span>**
**//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">REGIONAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR … the revolution in military affairs.</span>//**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Our discourse of the relationship between Taiwan, China, and the U.S. is accurate</span>
**//Jennifer <span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 5pt;">STERLING-FOLKER</span>Poli Sci @ Connecticut (Stamford) AND Rosemary SHINKO IR @ Connecticut (Stamford) <span style="font-size: 5pt;">‘</span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 5pt;">5</span>“Discourses of Power: Traversing the Realist-Postmodern Divide” Millennium 33 (3) p. 658-660//**
**//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Granting that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">postmodernism is seeking … </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">what remains the same (namely,</span>//**


**//Contention Four is Fallout//**

**//Nuclear War inevitable – multiple scenarios//**
**//Moore '07//**
**//(Carol Moore, peace activist, freelance journalist, and systems theorist, "Six Escalation Scenarios", 2007, www.carolmoore.net/nuclearwar/alternatescenarios.html//GH-aspomer)**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A world nuclear war</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> is … destroy nuclear and military capabilities. </span>**


Evolutionary adaptations that make good authoritarian leaders also make nuclear war inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer ‘7</span>
Bradley A., Missouri State University Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Comparative Strategy, 26:311–323, July 2007 “Thinking about Nuclear Deterrence Theory: Why Evolutionary Psychology Undermines Its Rational Actor Assumptions”
<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Third, </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 5pt;">the physical differences may be temporary or permanent ...........</span><span class="underline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> will lead to deterrence failure</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


**The resulting radiation will cause extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phillips</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, PhD in physics from Cambridge, former military researcher specializing in radiation and extensive author and researcher in the field of nuclear weapons and nuclear war, October, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Alan, //Nuclear Winter Revisited//, www.peace.ca/nuclearwinterrevisited.htm)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Altogether, </span><span class="underline0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear winter would … </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, but </span>__</span>**__it may not include us__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Decaying nuclear waste is a ticking time bomb-a nuclear reaction in the Artic will threaten human life</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shields 2007, </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rachel Shields, 7-10-2007, “ Dirty timebomb' ticking in Russian nuclear dump threatens Europe”</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/news/world-news/dirty-timebomb-ticking-in-russian-nuclear-dump-threatens-europe-14465525.html</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 20,000 discarded uranium fuel rods … </span>__**__beyond the threat to life__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Radiation will permeate the globe and cause extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Caldicott 2009</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Helen Caldicott, being cited by Planet Green. Com. 6-05-2009, “Low Level Radioactive Waste: LLRW”. Nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, Physician, and recognized as one of the most influential women in the 21st century</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">http://planetgreen.discovery.com/tech-transport/green-glossary-radioactive-waste.html</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">For radioactive waste to … </span>__**__plague humanity has ever experienced."__


**Luckily, US weather modification can control the effects of a nuclear war and maintain battlespace dominance**
**Eastlund and Jenkins 5**
**(Bernard J. , physicist who received his B.S. in physics from MIT and his Ph.D. in physics from Columbia University. He led a team of scientists and engineers working for Advanced Power Technologies, Inc, and Lyle M., retired from NASA after 38 years of systems engineering activity. Major projects included Apollo and Space Shuttle, design engineer on the Atlas ICBM and the Centaur, first liquid hydrogen upper stage, Eastlund Scientific Enterprises, Thunderstorm Solar Power Satellite-Issues Dealing with Weather Modification, page @ http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel5/11012/34697/01656145.pdf?tp=&isnumber=34697&arnumber=1656145//GH-aspomer)//**
**//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Over the course of the … downdrafts that drive tornado formation. </span>__//**


**//US Weather mod key to steering away dangerous radiation, controlling the effects of a nuclear war, and maintaining American stability//**
**//Webre '11//**
**//(Alfred Lambremont Webre, Seattle Exopolitics Examiner, " Scientist: U.S., Canada, Mexico, Hawaii targeted in nuclear war from Japan", 3/28/11, www.examiner.com/exopolitics-in-seattle/scientist-u-s-canada-mexico-hawaii-targeted-nuclear-war-from-japan//GH-aspomer)**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Independent scientist Leuren Moret in … </span>**


**The United States federal government should substantially increase development of its space based weather modification capabilities.**


**Contention Five is Solvency**
**The plan solves**
**Theroux '99**
**(Michael Theroux, Director of the Borderland Sciences Research Foundation, "Space Based Weather Control:The 'Thunderstorm Solar Power Satellite'", 1999, www.borderlands.com/spacewea.htm//GH-aspomer)//**
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">HAARP</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, as we have stated, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Technology: Project HAARP and Beyond.</span>//


//The ground based HAARP program triggers all disad links//
//Chossudovsky '07//
//(Michel Chossudovsky, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa, The Ecologist, "Weather Warfare: Beware the US military’s experiments with climatic warfare", 12/7/07, www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=7561//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Rarely acknowledged in the debate … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">been subjected to routine testing. </span>__



Weather mod and space weaponization inevitable
India Daily '05
("Weather manipulation warfare from outerspace", 8/20/05, www.greatdreams.com/weather/weather_manipulation.htm//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weather manipulation warfare is taking a … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">and creation of nuclear shields. </span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Magnitude outweighs – there is a categorical difference between existential and non-existential threats</span>
<span class="cite">Matheny ‘7</span>
(Jason G., Prof of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, v27n5)
<span class="underline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if extinction events ..........</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">those that threaten 100%.</span>__</span>


===Cruise Missiles=== 
Al Qaeda has the ability and will attack our food supplies – even a small attack will spread and collapse the industry and the economy
Olson '12
(Dean Olson, M.A., "Agroterrorism - Threats to America's Economy and Food Supply", February 2-12, www.fbi.gov/stats-services/publications/law-enforcement-bulletin/february-2012/agroterrorism//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">The United States enjoys a safe, …</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> supply of food; therefore, any significant and continuing disruption in supply quickly will lead to severe shortages. </span>
Terrorists will use cruise missiles to transport chemical and biological weapons – a more robust defense is crucial
Kueter and Kier 7 (Jeff, President, The George C. Marshall Institute, and David, , Vice President, Lockheed Martin Corporation , July 9, The Cruise Missile Challenge, Marshall Institute, page @ http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/557.pdf, )
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">So what is a cruise missile? There are two broad categories of cruise missiles. </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">… the ball,” nor is there budget for it. </span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Thank you for your time.</span>
Bioweapons cause extinction
Ochs 2k2
(MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered biological … must not blind us. The game is over. If patriotism would extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>
And, New Gene Manipulation Strategies Increases Risk And Threat Of Bioweapons – Prefer The Newest Evidence
MSNBC 12/7
(“Clinton warns of bioweapon threat from gene tech,” pg online @ [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ]] //ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">GENEVA — </span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">New gene assembly technology</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that …</span>__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> down on the threat of bioweapons. But U.S. officials have also resisted calls for an international verification system — akin to that for nuclear weapons — saying it is too complicated to monitor every lab's activities.</span>
Agroterrorism destroys genetic diversity
Dudley ‘02
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">JP Dudley</span>, Institute of Arctic Biology – U Alaska Fairbanks, and M.H. Wolford, Not Kurt, Chair – Office International des Epizooties Working Group on Wildlife Diseases, Portugal, Bioweapons, Bioterrorism, and Biodiversity, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">2002</span>, http://www.oie.int/eng/publicat/rt/2....%20DUDLEY.pdf
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Military and </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">terrorist applications of biotechnology … of global agriculture that may be subject to severe damage from deliberate or accidental bioweapon releases.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Fowler ‘90</span>
Cary <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">Fowler and</span> Pat <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">Mooney</span>, Rural Advancement Fund International, Shattering: Food, Politics, and the Loss of Genetic Diversity, 19<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">90</span>, p. ix

<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> While many may ponder the consequences of global warming, perhaps </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the … may have spread the blight to Africa, Latin America and Asia.</span>
The Plan stabilizes the ionosphere allowing for detection of cruise missiles
Mercer et al ‘96
(“Weather as a Force Multiplier: Owning the Weather in 2025”, Col Tamzy J. House, Lt Col James B. Near, Jr., LTC William B. Shields (USA), Maj, Ronald J. Celentano, Maj David M. Husband, Maj Ann E. Mercer, Maj James E. Pugh, All are in Air Force, 1996, pdf//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Ionospheric mirrors for pinpoint communication or over-the-horizon (OTH) radar transmission…s capability could also be employed to precisely locate the source of enemy electromagnetic transmissions. </span>
We can also blow them up
Popular Science '96
("HAARP Knock, Knock, Knockingon Heaven's Door", Spring 1996, arcticcircle.uconn.edu/VirtualClassroom/HAARP/acf.html//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">A new research installation is beaming powerful radioactive energy into the … they may not have expected to attract any attention way out back in Alaska's sub-Arctic taiga.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Magnitude outweighs – there is a categorical difference between existential and non-existential threats</span>
Matheny ‘7
(Jason G., Prof of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, v27n5)
<span class="underline">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Even if extinction events are improbable</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">,.. threaten 99% of humanity and those that threaten 100%.</span>__</span>
==2AC's== 
===2AC Security=== 


<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">they cede the political - how sad</span>
Olav. F. Knudsen, Prof @ Södertörn Univ College, ‘01 [//Security Dialogue// 32.3, “Post-Copenhagen Security Studies: Desecuritizing Securitization,” p. 366]
<span style="text-decoration: none;">A</span> final <span style="text-decoration: none;">danger in focusing on the state is</span> …<span style="text-decoration: none;">unheeded by any but the most uncritical minds.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">Our discourse of the relationship between Taiwan, China, and the U.S. is the only way to incorporate historical epistemology and improve trust. Alt is naïve.- Yay for us</span>

Jennifer STERLING-FOLKER Poli Sci @ Connecticut (Stamford) AND Rosemary SHINKO IR @ Connecticut (Stamford) ‘5 “Discourses of Power: Traversing the Realist-Postmodern Divide” Millennium 33 (3) p. 658-660
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Granting that </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">postmodernism is seeking out the sources … shape existing institutions and practices,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> and are in turn shaped by them. Thus we will miss the most essential link between that which changes (namely, history), and what remains the same (namely,</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Deterrence as source of ontological security is key to acting against aggressive foreign policy – solves your impact - hooray for us!</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Lupovici 2k8</span>
(Amir Lupovici Post-Doctoral Fellow Munk Centre for International Studies University of Toronto “Page 1 Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse,” pg online @ <span style="color: #112508;">[[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?hl=en&q=cache:cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf%C2%A0//|http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?hl=en&q=cache:cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf //]]</span>)
<span style="color: #000000;">Since deterrence can become part of the … identities and created more stable expectations of avoiding violence.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">We should pragmatically reform US leadership – total rejection would increase imperialism - boo hoo</span>
Christian REUS-SMIT IR @ Australian Nat’l ‘4 American Power and World Order p. 121-123
My preference here is to advocate a … is prudent, not conservative. More than this, though, we have learnt that the institutions of international society have transformative potential, even if this is only now being creatively exploited.
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Multiple STRUCTURAL factors means the realist viewpoint is THE most applicable for East Asia- </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: justify;">Geeraerts no date (Gustaaf, Department of Political Science Free University of Brussels (VUB), “POWER, GEOGRAPHY AND STABILITY: EAST ASIAN SECURITY IN THIS CENTURY”, www.cemcweb.com/lecture_doc/CEMC-Lecture-Geeraerts.doc//greenhill-sb)//</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: justify;">Some Western security analysts, taking a realist approach, … While Europe is ‘primed for peace’, the prospects of East Asia in term of peace and stability are much more grim. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Environmental security challenges the state in a way that forces reform, ends militarism, and prevents co-option - that's super!!!</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Barnett ‘01</span>//
//(Jon Barnett, Research Council Fellow In The School Of Social And Environmental Enquiry At The University Of Melbourne, “The Meaning Of Environmental Security: Ecological Politics And Policy In The New Security Era”, Chapter 9, 137-41//GH-aspomer)
The question of whether it is valid to understand environmental problems as security …that is likely to ensue from the project of environmental security.

===2AC T Human=== 
This is stupid - vote aff judge

We Meet – we will defend human presence for the purpose of your disads
Varni '96
(Lt. Col Jamie G. G. Varni, Powers, Maj Crawford, Maj Jordan, Maj Kendall, "Space Operations: Throught The Looking Glass (Global Area Strike System)", August 1996, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:6tmRT8v3pUYJ:csat.au.af.mil/2025/volume3/vol3ch14.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESjSe22-miuPNfYfbjxGj-jkcTNnG2pNOxxXPrgV2NQZdMn0J2AjQKVdDWUaIDowesxsqjdlKYJJB4y-hPQSBC5QC4sZ8feFKjHHPfOjvfNijsjc8APCqQfiduMVYDicomv476Y7&sig=AHIEtbShLXepVABnpMr7eQlyBMIlmGzD9A&pli=1</span>//GH-aspomer)//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Weather and atmospheric conditions … decision and human judgment would still be intimately involved.</span>//
//Development is climate affs//
//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">GAO 10</span> – US Government Accountability Office (“United States Government Stewardship Information (Unaudited) for the Years Ended September 30, 2010, and 2009 Stewardship Investments” http://www.gao.gov/financial/fy2010/10stew.pdf)//
//<span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">With regard to</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> development, </span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">the …</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">made with the current suite of missions. </span>//
//Prefer it://
//a. Predictability – it’s NASA’s definition and - We are the most predictable form of development//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Yamanouchi 03</span>//
//President of the National Space Development Agency (NASDA) in Japan (Shuichiro Yamanouchi, “ [Business leaders] Space and the Global Environment” [[http://www.japanfs.org/en/pages/011507.html]])//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The objective of space …</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> is that it is not a good business.</span>//
//Default to Reasonability//
//Lester and Robinson '09//
//(Daniel F. Lester, Research Fellow at the department of Astronomy at UT- author of more than eighty refereed papers in professional journals, Michael Robinson, associate professor of history at University of Hartford - focuses on the history of science and exploration, "Visions of Exploration", Space Policy journal Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, SciVerse// GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Despite</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> these </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">ambiguities in meaning… which surround modern exploration [6].</span>



===<span style="font-size: 16px;">2AC Politics</span>=== 

Plan would be part of the black budget and not perceived

Snow ‘03

(Keith Snow, independent journalist, consultant to the United Nations and other international bodies, has testified at Congressional hearings, “Out of the Blue: Space Drones, Black Programs, the Unveiling of U.S. Military Offensives in Weather as a Weapon, and the Coming Permanent State of Emergency,” March 2003, http://thewebfairy.com/911/uav/index.htm//GH-aspomer)//

//<span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">Are we to believe that the U.S. …</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px; text-decoration: none;"> examples and deep discussion of ongoing ENMOD realities</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.</span>//


//Plan popular with Hutchison – she’ll push it//

//NAIWMC '08//

//(North American Interstate Weather Modification Council, 11/1/08, agriculturedefensecoalition.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/5W_2008_NAIWMC_Weather_Modification_NAIWMC_Home_Page_2008_U.S._Map.pdf//GH-aspomer)

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Congressman Mark Udall</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (D-CO) </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">… funding of research in weather modification.</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> See the bill by following the Congressional Activities link. </span>



Hutchison is key to the agenda – fosters bipartisanship


Houston Chronicle 10 ("Old-school senator: Kay Bailey Hutchison wields forgotten skills of legislative craft to build NASA’s future", 5/5/10, http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/editorial/6991732.html//ghs-avi)//

//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Sen. Kay Bailey</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> Hutchison is back to …</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Florida and Alabama. Her work has been recognized by Sen. Bill Nelson</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span>//


//Political Capital not key to the agenda//

//Dickinson '09//

//(Matthew, 5/26/09, professor of political science at Middlebury College, taught at Harvard, "Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power", [[http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/|http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power//]] GH-aspomer)//

//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals … His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee. </span>//


//Winners win//

//Singer 9//

//(Jonathan, 3/3/9, MyDD, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital” http://mydd.com/2009/3/3/by-expending-capital-obama-grows-his-capital)//

//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Peter Hart gets at a key point. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Some believe … forward on anything</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> from universal healthcare to energy reform to ending the war in Iraq. </span>//


//Plan will be spun to gain support//

//Chossudovsky 2k//

//(Michel Chossudovsky, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa, "Climate Control & ManipulationWashington's New World Order Weapons", www.greatdreams.com/weather/weather_manipulation.htm//GH-aspomer)


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Misleading public opinion HAARP has …, for the more gullible, a device for repairing the ozone layer. (10) </span>



Black Budget is secretive and comes out of the CIA’s budget

Salla '12

(Michael E. Salla, Staff writer for Exopoliics Institute News Service, 1/10/12, "Ron Paul’s Plan to Restore America challenges secret trillion dollar Black Budget", news.exopoliticsinstitute.org/index.php/18210//GH-aspomer)//

//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">It will be a surprise to many that among those likely to be most alarmed by Paul’s “Plan to Restore America” are not private citizens; but powerful corporate, government and military entities that use excesses, inefficiencies and waste in these five government departments as a cover for secretly funding a vast network of classified projects. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">A secret trillion dollar Black … forms a highly classified second Manhattan Project whose existence, goals and budget are kept secret.</span>//



//Investment in our plan is popular – prevents property damage and tornadoes//

//Eastlund and Jenkins '04//

//(Dr. Bernard J. Eastlund, Bachelor’s of Science in Physics from MIT, NASA and FEMA have funded his weather control papers, Special Achievement Awards from the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Certificate of Recognition from the House of Representatives for his work on homeland security, Lyle M. Jenkins, 38 years experience as systems engineer for NASA, "Geoengineering Vision - Application for Space Solar Power",articles.adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/nph-iarticle_query?2004ESASP.567..275E&amp;data_type=PDF_HIGH&amp;whole_paper=YES&amp;type=PRINTER&amp;filetype=.pdf//GH-aspomer)

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Enormous investment</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> at considerable financial risk </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">,,,</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. This theme of a staged cost/capability development is implicit in this approach.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">2AC Spending</span>=== 


Black Budget is secretive and comes out of the CIA’s budget

Salla '12

(Michael E. Salla, Staff writer for Exopoliics Institute News Service, 1/10/12, "Ron Paul’s Plan to Restore America challenges secret trillion dollar Black Budget", news.exopoliticsinstitute.org/index.php/18210//GH-aspomer)//

//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">It will be a surprise to many that among those likely to be most alarmed by Paul’s “Plan to Restore America” are not private citizens; but powerful corporate, government and military entities that use excesses, inefficiencies and waste in these five government departments as a cover for secretly funding a vast network of classified projects. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">A secret trillion dollar Black … a highly classified second Manhattan Project whose existence, goals and budget are kept secret.</span>//


//Unclassified and off budget military spending on space systems are inevitable//

//Reuters 09 (Fox News, “Watchdog Group Slams Space Spending Spree”, http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,512089,00.html//greenhill-sb)

<span style="font-size: 16px;">U.S. government spending on unclassified … one of its own satellites, was up 35 percent to $560 million.</span>


US military space spending is key to the economy

Chang et al 2k9

<span style="font-size: 12px;">(Young-Keun Chang is a PhD and professor in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering and a director of the Space System Research Lab at Korea Aerospace University, Dr. Raz Tamir and Dr. Meidad Parientes for providing insight into the Israeli space sectorwork on the AMOS satellite program and are founding members of the Israeli Nanosatellite Association, Daniel Rockberger, a mechanical engineer and graduate of the International Space University, “INTEL: Global Military Space” 2009, pg online @ [http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=875113067]//greenhill-au)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Militaries and intelligence forces fully realize the value of space capability and consequently, invest … awareness. When combined with tighter militaries could offset costs and optimize military space capability through increased reliance on international relationships and more partnering with friends and allies.</span>

===2AC Weather mod bad=== 
Uhsquooze me, did you hear da 1AC?

China already perceives US weather modification
Snow ‘03
(Keith Snow, independent journalist, consultant to the United Nations and other international bodies, has testified at Congressional hearings, “Out of the Blue: Space Drones, Black Programs, the Unveiling of U.S. Military Offensives in Weather as a Weapon, and the Coming Permanent State of Emergency,” March 2003, http://thewebfairy.com/911/uav/3.htm//GH-aspomer)//
//<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Many countries throughout the world practice weather modification. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The …, that the US military continues to use weather as a weapon</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. [64]</span>//
//Russia link non-unique//
//Khanal '09//
//(Ke Cao Kate Freund Sudarshan Khanal and Marissa RamirezElise Rindfleisch Jack Yeh, "Weather Modification", 5/11/09, xleelab.sites.yale.edu/sites/default/files/weather_modification_cl_2009.pdf//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">In addition to being a research program, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">military documents confirm … and atmospheric systems in order to control and prevent its use</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.</span>

==Addons== 
===I like turtles=== 
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Courtesy of Mountain Brook</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Sea turtles on the brink of extinction because of increased hurricanes</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Van Houtan '11</span>
(Dr. Kyle S. Van Houtan, leads the Marine Turtle Assessment Program with NOAA Fisheries and researches the processes leading to the loss of species and natural systems at Duke using satellite and climate data, Ph.D. in ecology at Duke, "Extinction is a Theological Act: Species Loss and Its Causes", 6/15/11, flourishonline.org/2011/06/extinction-is-a-theological-act-species-loss-and-its-causes/)
The primary human causes of declines in plants and animals are habitat loss .... Climate change merely exacerbates their plight.
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Sea turtles key to human survival</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">STCB '10</span>
(Sea Turtle Conservation Bonaire, "Are Sea Turtles Worth Saving?", Sources: Caribbean Conservation Corporation and Todd Steiner, Sea Turtle Restoration Project, 2010, www.bonaireturtles.org/explore/are-sea-turtles-worth-saving//)
Sea turtles demonstrate the ultimate lesson …marine species that humans harvest would be lost.
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Extinction</span>
Takacs, Environmental Humanities Prof @ CSU Monteray Bay, 1996 (David, “The Idea of Biodiversity: Philosophies of Paradise” pg. 200-201)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: justify;">So biodiversity keeps the world running. … not with a bang but a whimper.14</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: justify;">Ozone</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Plan solves ozone destruction</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Stephen '11</span>

(David Stephen, Science writer for Mathaba News Network, "Ozone layer depletion: an encumbrance within geoengineering limits", 11/30/11, www.mathaba.net/news/?x=629488//GH-aspomer)

Ozone layer depletion is not a joke; it is a …answer to the ozone depletion encumbrance.

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Extinction</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Brandenberg ‘99</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Dr. Brandenberg, Physicist (Ph.D.) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">and Paxson a science writer ’99 – John and Monica, Dead Mars Dying Earth p. 232-3</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-decoration: none;">The ozone hole expands, driven by a monstrous …**red, desolate**, **with perhaps a few hardy microbes surviving.**</span>

And even worse, that kills the band Ozone who wrote Numa Numa. That means no more this guy:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=60og9gwKh1o


===Competitiveness=== 
Plan solves Competitiveness
Chang et al 2k9
(Young-Keun Chang is a PhD and professor in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering and a director of the Space System Research Lab at Korea Aerospace University, Dr. Raz Tamir and Dr. Meidad Parientes for providing insight into the Israeli space sectorwork on the AMOS satellite program and are founding members of the Israeli Nanosatellite Association, Daniel Rockberger, a mechanical engineer and graduate of the International Space University, “INTEL: Global Military Space” 2009, pg online @ [http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=875113067]//greenhill-au)//
//Militaries and intelligence forces fully realize the value of space capability and … relationships and more partnering with friends and allies.//
//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Key to Heg</span>//

//Segal, 4 – Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations (Adam, Foreign Affairs, “Is America Losing Its Edge?” November / December 2004, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html)//  JMP
The United States' global … technological entrepreneurship at home.
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Nuclear War</span>
Gray, Professor of International Politics & Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, and founded of the National Institute for Public Policy, 4 (Colin, //The Sheriff: America’s Defense of the New World Order//)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">could pick up</span> its <span style="text-decoration: none;">military</span> ball <span style="text-decoration: none;">…with weapons of mass destruction</span> (WMD) at that.


=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===Environment K=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The desire to connect environmental degradation with images of conflict glosses over the true damage of eco harm and legitimizes violence in the name of the sovereign</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Byles, 3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Professor of foreign language and lit @ Cyprus; Joanna Montgomery, “Psychoanalysis and war: The superego and projective identification”; Journal for the psychoanalysis of culture and society)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">Of course, I am not arguing that there are not some important …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> Israelis as despoilers of the land they are supposed to share.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">the affirmative’s portrayal of looming ENVIRONMENTAL apocalypse authorizes genocide in the name of staving off catastrophe. ironically, this approach makes sustained environmental engagement impossible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Frederick Buell, cultural studies at Queens College, 2003 (From Apocalypse to Way of Life, p. 201) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">Looked at critically, then, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">crisis discourse</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> thus suffers from a number of liabilities…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> and pressure. No credible refuge from damage to these is at hand.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> Vote negative to de-link the appeal for environmental protection from the obsession with security. Only this solves. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The Alt isn’t competitive with the plan but its still a reason they should lose </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> Dalby, 99</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Simon, Assistant Pf - International Affairs • Carl Eton. 1999 “Contested Grounds” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">Like other projects seeking to rethink politics seriously in light of environmental considerations, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">… order that geopolitical reasoning has acted to render "secure" for the last half century. </span>


===Prolif K=== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Representations of rationality – the aff’s descriptions and responses to proliferation are based in imperial control – proliferation is only destabalizing when viewed in a colonial lens</span>**
Andreas **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Behnke</span>__**, Prof. of Poli Sci @ Towson, Lecturer in Political Theory at the University of Reading, January **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">2k</span>__** , International
Journal of Peace Studies 5.1, “Inscriptions of the Imperial Order,” [[http://www.gmu.edu/academic/ijps/vol5_1/behnke.htm%20/|http://www.gmu.edu/academic/ijps/vol5_1/behnke.htm //]]
While sticking to our critical hermeneutics, __we might__ nonetheless __flesh … reasons to be skeptical about NATO's ability to conduct a 'dialogue' with an other it is unwilling to listen to__.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Their proliferation is entrenched in a racist description of the world – this ideological approach causes genocide and unending war</span>**
Pinar **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Batur</span>__**, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar, 20**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">07</span>__****,** “The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 446-7
At the turn of the 20th century, the “Terrible Turk” was the image that summarized the enemy of … __the **global racist ideology with dizzying** **frequency**__. The 21st century opened up with genocide, in Darfur.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Refuse the affirmatives descriptions and actions towards proliferation - this critical stance is prior to assent of the plan </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The alt isn’t competitive with the plan but it is still a reason why they should lose</span>**
Rebecca S. **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bjork</span>__**, Prof of Communications @ University of Utah, 19**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">95</span>__**, Warranting Assent, “Public Policy Argumentation and Colonialist Ideology in the Post-Cold War Era,” p. 232
Perhaps the most compelling feature of Said’s (1979) Orientalism is the careful, detailed account he constructs of the … criticism, and that the result will be a humane, vigilant dialogue that is sensitive to the power and influence of scholarship.


===Pan K=== 

Their Discourse Reduces China to Uncivilized Status - Limitless Violence Becomes Natural
Seng 2
Tan See Seng, Prof of Security Studies @ IDSS Singapore, <span style="font-size: 16px;">‘</span>2[July, “What Fear Hath Wrought: Missile Hysteria and The Writing of America, IDSS Commentary No. 28, http://www.sipri.org/contents/library/0210.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Let us turn</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> briefly </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">to</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> recent</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> statements involving the "China threat</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">." As per usual, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">now proceeds along the democratic/authoritarian axis, as well as along other axes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (elaborated upon earlier) </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">around which rogue states are constituted. </span>

Our alternative is to vote negative to reject these representations—allowing for a more effective foreign policy.
Pan, 04
(Political Science, Australian National U, Chengxin, Department of Political Science at Australian National University, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, Alternatives, June-July, ebscohost
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I have argued above that </span>__the "China threat" argument in mainstream U.S. IR literature is …more nuanced, and less dangerous ways of interpreting and debating China might become possible__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

===Schmitt K=== 

**The aff is an attempt to gloss over the enmity inherent in the human condition – makes worse violence inevitable in its attempt to eliminate rather than limit conflict**
**Rasch 5**
**(William, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University, “Lines in the Sand: Enmity as aStructuring Principle”, The South Atlantic Quarterly 104:2, Spring)**
In The Concept of the Political, Schmitt concludes ............... itself as violence and the guilt associated with it.


**This form of absolute enmity causes the most destructive conflicts based on a personal hatred for the enemy rather than a relationship based on difference**
**Odysseos 8**
**(Dr. Louiza, Senior Lecturer at the Department of International Relations at the University of Sussex, “Liberalism’s War, Liberalism’s Order: Rethinking the Global Liberal Order as a ‘Global Civil War’”, March 17)**
First, __global civil war ................ they claim to overcome’__ (Habermas and Derrida 2003: 99)


**The alternative is to adopt a proper relationship with the other based on difference rather than liberalism**
**Only the alternative can effectively limit inevitable conflicts over difference and establish an ontological foundation for the political rather than one based on absolute inclusion**
**Prozorov 6**
**(Sergei, Professor of International Relations in the Department of International Relations, Faculty of Politics and Social Sciences, Petrozavodsk State University, Russia, “Liberal Enmity: The Figure of the Foe in the Political Ontology of Liberalism”, Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 75)**
Schmitt’s own critique of liberalism arguably ............ of contemporary world politics.

==Disadvantages== 

===Launch Services DA (v. DSCVR)=== 

India has a more feasible launch service that gives it a competitive edge over the US
Swati ‘08
[Deb Swati, Commodity Online, ‘8 “Nuke deal or not, India is already a super power” July 17th 2008, http://www.commodityonline.com/news/topstory/Nuke-deal-or-not-India-is-already-a-super-power-10445-2.html]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">India has launched 10 remote ............................. leadership position," emphasizes Nair. </span>


The plan spurs competition for low launch costs
Butler '11
[Amy Butler, Washington, Aviation Week, 5/13/2011, "USAF Test Launch Targets Broader Market", pg. online @ www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/awst/2011/05/09/AW_05_09_2011_p26-318881.xml&headline=USAF%20Test%20Launch%20Targets%20Broader%20Market// bprp]
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> U.S. Air Force is crafting ..................... </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">risk than other</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Pentagon launches.</span>__


That steals the launch market
Dinerman ‘7
[Taylor Dinerman, an author and journalist based in New York City, ‘7, The Space Review, “The chicken and the egg: RLVs and space-based solar power,” November 19th 2007, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1004/1]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The report does point out, in one of its most ............................................ nation where that breakthrough is made.</span>

Indian space services are key to its soft power and global economy
Lele ‘07
Ajey Lele, research fellow at the institute for defense studies and analyses in New Delhi, ‘7 (India<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> Strategic, “Space Program Addin to India’s Brand Image” July 2007, [[http://www.indiastrategic.in/topstories23.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">International prestige in science .......................Image in space research and capabilities.</span>

That’s key to check Iran
Padukone ‘10
[Neil Padukone, Visiting Fellow at the Institute of Security Studies Observer Research Foundation in New Delhi, ‘10 March 15 2010 “Can India Facilitate a US-Iran Rapprochement,” Centre for Land Warfare Studies Issue 15]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Eight years of Indo-US amity, the stamp of which was .....................................</span><span style="font-size: 7px; line-height: 10px;">that is in the greatest interests of all three countries</span>

Inability to contain Iran causes nuclear war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben-Meir, 2k7</span>
(Alon, “Ending Iran's defiance,” http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-3361650,00.html)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The fact that Iran stands today able to challenge ..............................</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> deliberate or inadvertent nuclear conflagration</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>

===Jobs Ptix=== 
Jobs will pass – it’ll be separated to gain support
Simendinger 10/14
(Alexis Simendinger,covers the White House for RealClearPolitics, "In Whole or in Parts, Jobs Bill Likely to Go Nowhere", 10/14/11, www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2011/10/14/in_whole_or_in_parts_jobs_bill_likely_to_go_nowhere_111676.html//GH-aspomer)//
//__Obama vowed Thursday to__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> press lawmakers to </span>__adopt__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> as </span>__separate__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> provisions </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Democrats, not the White House, although Obama backs what he calls the “Buffett rule” to improve tax fairness. </span>//

//Political capital is key//
//Gomez 10/11 (Henry, politics writer for The Plain Dealer, "President Obama's re-election campaign cites polls to boost jobs bill, but Senate vote unlikely", www.cleveland.com/open/index.ssf/2011/10/president_obamas_re-election_c.html//ghs-avi)
__A key measure of__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">President Barack </span>**__Obama's political capital is …__**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">U.S. Rep. Marcy Kaptur, a Toledo Democrat, said in a meeting with Plain Dealer editors and reporters Tuesday that such a scenario was likely. </span>
Space programs are perceived as new spending -- causes backlash.
Handberg, 11 (Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but on …</span> __under control.__<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> The home run approach has run its course at least for a time; now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.</span>

Short term investment in jobs is key to the economy and leadership--we cite empirics
Rivlin 9/20 (Alice M. Rivlin, Senior Fellow of Economic Studies at Brookings, served as the Vice Chairman of the Federal Reserve, the Director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, and the Director of the Congressional Budget Office, PhD from Radcliffe College, "Employment, Growth, and the Budget", 9/20/11, www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0920_employment_growth_budget_rivlin.aspx//ghs-avi)
__This is a critical moment for this Committee to focus on employment … growth and serve as insurance against another economic downturn.__

Economic decline leads to global nuclear war – gives power to dictators, failed states,
Green and Schrage 9
[Senior Advisor and Japan Chair @ CSIS and Associate Professor @ Georgetown University AND CSIS School Chair in International Business and Former Senior Official with the US Trade Representative’s Office (Michael J. and Steven P., “It’s not just the economy,” State Department and Ways & Means Committee, Asia Times, 3/26,http://www.atimes.com/atimes/asian_economy/kc26dk01.html)
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, analysts at the World Bank and the US Central … economic growth and recognizing its interconnections to security rather than seeking relative gains through unilateral approaches.</span>


===Silver DA=== 

Solar power would tradeoff with other industry demands for silver- causing silver shortages
Savinar, 08
(Matt, Political Science from the University of California at Davis, J.D. from the University of California at Hastings College of the Law, "The Peak Oil and Die-Off," 2004, ACC. 6/7/<span style="font-size: 5pt;">2008,</span>
http://www.unicamp.br/fea/ortega/eco/traducao-DieOff.pdf, p. 58)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The geographic areas most suited for large solar farms......... for copper, which is frequently used to conduct electricity. </span>


Silver shortages hurt military readiness and hegemony and turn the aff

Charles <span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Savoie</span>__</span>, Master of Fine Arts degree from Illinois State University, 10-8-<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span>__</span>, silver4India, http://www.silver4india.com/silver4india/modules/news/article.php?storyid=63
<span class="underline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Let's take a look at the ...................</span>__</span> **__of miscellaneous equipment."__**


==CP== 
===Community Word PIC=== 


The language of community turns their case-----

1. __hierarchy da__---Use of the term community establishes a paternalistic __us-them relationship__ ---this creates tension that __ensures policy failure__

**Heitman,** University of Texas School of Public Health, **1**
http://www.asph.org/UserFiles/Module4.pdf
Some __uses of the term community in public … as opposed to the professionals’ skills and knowledge and dedication to society’s welfare.____<span style="font-size: 8px;">4</span>__

2. __manipulation da__---adopting a community-centric approach is a strategy designed to __manipulate target populations__---this creates an environment that is __inconsistent__ with true compassion

**Heitman**, University of Texas School of Public Health, **1**
http://www.asph.org/UserFiles/Module4.pdf
__An even more ethically dangerous phenomenon is that public … **manipulative when it substitutes marketing and implied peer pressure for real moral** **and psychological support**.____<span style="font-size: 8px;">5</span>__

3. __group conflict da__---Reliance on the term community ensures inevitable divisions between diverse groups that results in ethnic conflict

**Heitman**, University of Texas School of Public Health, **1**
http://www.asph.org/UserFiles/Module4.pdf
__Often the intent of identifying a group as a community determines what features…practice challenge the traditions or beliefs of__ __their religious, ethnic, or other value-oriented community__.

====2NC Patriarchy Impact==== 

The boundaries of community are always defined by the dominant class---it locks women out

**Loader,** Community Informatics Research and Applications Unit-University of Teesside, **2K**
http://www.cpsr.org/prevsite/publications/newsletters/issues/2000/Summer2000/loader-keeble.html
<span style="color: #000000;">Accordingly, we are suggesting that __this dominant culture which is based …__male organisers have taught them basic word processing, spreadsheets etc.</span>

The impact is extinction

**Warren**, Chair of Philosophy Department @ Macalester College, **94**,
(“Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connection,” proquest)
__The notion of patriarchy as a socially dysfunctional system enables feminist …of various woman-nature-peace connections in regional, national, and global contexts.__


===UK CP=== 

Having the uk develop the technology and making it’s work accessible to the us is the most effective way to reduce duplication and save the united states the high cost of r&D

Rood 07
(John Worked for the Department of state under the secretary of state, and was responsible for State for Arms Control and International Security (appointed by the senate), as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Forces Policy at the Department of Defense. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Proliferation Strategy, Counterproliferation and Homeland Defense at the United States National Security Council, “The U.S.-U.K Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty: Entering a New Era of Transatlantic Defense Cooperation” 11/16/07 Published by the Department of state, <span style="color: black;">http://www.state.gov/t/isn/rls/rm/105478.htm</span>)
The United States and ....................................<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> would be pleased to take questions.</span>


This applies to space and is critical to interoperability
Dalbello 11
(Richard, responsible for managing Intelsat General’s legal team, for leading its government relations and public policy efforts, as well as representing Intelsat General before numerous US and international policy bodies, “ National Space Policy: The Challenge of Implementation” High Frontier, 1/1/11, [[http://www.intelsatgeneral.com/sites/default/files/2011-02-25_HighFrontier.pdf|www.intelsatgeneral.com/sites/default/files/2011-02-25_HighFrontier.pdf]] )
The Obama space policy calls ............................................ space capabilities of our allies.<span style="font-size: 5pt;">”</span>


==Other== 
===Warming Defense=== 

Warming empirically does not cause catastrophic impacts
Cook '10
(Steve Cook, the Climate Change Communication Fellow for the Global Change Institute at the University of Queensland. He created and runs Skeptical Science and co-authored the book Climate Change Denial: Heads in the Sand with environmental scientist Haydn Washington. In 2011, Skeptical Science won the Australian Museum Eureka Prize for the Advancement of Climate Change Knowledge., "Does high levels of CO2 in the past contradict the warming effect of CO2?", 12/24/10, [[http://www.skepticalscience.com/co2-higher-in-past.htm//GH-aspomer|www.skepticalscience.com/co2-higher-in-past.htm//GH-aspomer]])
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Geologists refer to</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> ancient </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ice-cap.......................</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> lowering CO2 levels even further. The evidence is definitely there for a short-term disruption of the carbon cycle.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">There is global cooling now there evidence comes from inaccurate measurements</span>
//Taylor 9’//
//by James M. Taylor (senior fellow of The Heartland Institute) “Global Cooling Continues” Online @ [[http://www.heartland.org/publications/environment%20climate/article/24739/Global_Cooling_Continues.html]] ghs ls//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Continuing a decade-long ................................</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">hypothesize</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, are too sensitive to CO2 increases,”</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Christy added.</span>//


//Oceans offset warming and heat radiates into space//
//Solomon et al‘10//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ph.D. in Climotology</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> University of California, Berkeley, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nobel Peace Prize Winner</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chairman of the IPCC</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP), 8/31/10, “Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases,” PNAS vol. 107, no. 43, http://www.pnas.org/content/107/43/18354.full.pdf+html</span>//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Much of the energy that has been added to the Earth’s climate system </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">in the 20th century ..................... the equilibrium climate sensitivity.</span>


Iodine Oxides, Produced By Algae Will Completely Offset Any Risk Of Warming
IDSO, IDSO, AND IDSO IN ’02
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sherwood, Pres. Ctr for Study of CO2 and Global Change, frmr Res. Phys. w/U.S. Dept of Ag's Agr Research Service at U.S. Water Conservation Laboratory Adjunct Professor Depts Geology, Geography, and Botany and Microbiology @ ASU, author of over 500 scientific publications, Keith, Vice Pres. Ctr Study CO2 and Global Change, Ph.D. in Botany @ ASU, won several top awards while instructing students in biological and botanical laboratories and lectures at ASU, and Craig, Chrmn Brd of Ctr for Study CO2 & Global Change, Ph.D. in Geog. ASU, pg. Online @ <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.co2science.org/edit/v5_edit/v5n33edit.htm]]</span> //wyo-ef)//</span>
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But what about </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">the .................................... tell one something about their motives.</span>//

==Warming Offense== 

Co2 is key to Cotton Growth
CO2 SCIENCE MAGAZINE IN ‘98
(Staff, “Interactive Effects of CO2 and Temperature on Cotton,” 11/1/98, pg online @ <span style="font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.co2science.org/scripts/Template/MainPage.jsp?Page=BrowseCatalogEnlarged&sProductCode=V1N4B5]]</span> //wyo-ef)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elevated CO</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> enhanced ..........................</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> for making cloth and textile products.</span>__//
//Cotton is key to Pakistani jobs and their economy//
//SANGHAR IN ‘05//
//(Mohammad Ali Khaskheli, Pakissan.com, “Clcuv de facto and the life blood of Pakistan Economy,” pg online @ <span style="font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.pakissan.com/english/allabout/crop/cotton/clcuv.de.facto.and.the.life.blood.shtml]]</span>// wyo-ef)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prior to the introduction .......................</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> blood of Pakistan economy</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


Nuclear War
GUTHRIE IN ‘00
(Grant, J.D. candidate, 2000, University of California, Hastings College of the Law., __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hastings International and Comparative Law Review</span>__ “Nuclear Testing Rocks the Sub-Continent: Can International Law Halt the Impending Nuclear Conflict Between India and Pakistan?” Spring/Summer 2000, pg lexis //wyo-ef)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Nuclear testing creates political instability .............................</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> be incredibly destabilizing. </span>__//


//Co2 is awesome for soybeans and offsets any effects by warming or pollution//
//CSCD ‘02//
//Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change in ‘02//
//(Staff, “Agriculture (Species -- Soybean) -- Summary,” 5/8/02, pg. Online @ http://www.co2science.org/subject/a/summaries/agriculturesoy.htm// wyo-ef)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Several studies have .............................</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to elevated SO</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> levels</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>


Soybean Production is key to Brazil’s economy
Bloomberg Online 10/21/04
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(staff, “Brazil May Lead Gain i<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">n Global Soybean Output, Researcher Says,”pg. online @</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">[[http://quote.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=10000086&refer=latin_america&sid=akBGxXzO_zBU|**http://quote.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=10000086&refer=latin_america&sid=akBGxXzO_zBU**]] //wyo-ef)//</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;"> //Oct. 21 (Bloomberg) -- __Global soybean........................__<span style="line-height: 10px;">prices that surged 41 percent last year and 34 percent in 2002.</span>//</span>

//Extinction//
//SHULTZ IN ‘00//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Donald, Research Professor of National Security Policy at US Army War College, “THE UNITED STATES AND LATIN AMERICA: SHAPING AN ELUSIVE FUTURE,” March, 2000, pg. Online @ [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/ssi/pdffiles/PUB31.pdf]] </span>//wyo-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">While we are in a speculative mode, it may be useful to raise the ...........................</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to the military for answers</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. 58</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]