[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Heidegger aff== 

**The expansion towards space represents a decisive moment in political philosophy—the spread of globalization and technology has outpaced the question of ethics. The starting point for thinking the question of space must begin with an interrogation of Being.**
Turnbull, 2k6 (Neil, Senior Lecturer in Philosophy and Social Theory and Nottingham Trent U, “The Ontological Consequence of Copernicus: Global Being in the Planetary World”, Theory, Culture & Society Vol. 23(1))
The political a priori …: the planetary world that must be shared by all.

**From the neoconservative call for space militarization to the liberal export of cosmopolitan values, competing narratives of space remain essentially the same in their maintenance of technical rationality and domination when confronted with the ontological anxiety that has been revealed by outerspace--**
Grondin, 2k9 (David, assistant prof of Political Studies @ U of Ottawa, “The (power) politics of Space: The US astropolitical discourse of global dominance in the War on Terror”, Securing Space, 116-119)

This brings me … but rather to defend against those who would" (Rumsfeld, quoted in Waldrop 2005 [2002]: 39).


**Faced with the anxiety provoked by outer-space, this emphasis on technical rationality has bracketed the question of Being in favor of constant progress. This ontological move eradicates the space for ethics and has historically resulted in atrocity.**
Peoples, 2k9 (Columba, Lecturer in I.R. at the U of Bristol, “Haunted dreams: Critical Theory, Technology and the militarization of Space”, Securing Space, pg 99-103)

Even more so than Adorno, … domination necessarily go together.

**Our obsession with technology in the form of globalization has enframed space itself such that all alternative modes of revealing are forgotten resulting in a reduction of all beings to objects standing in reserve—only valued for their instrumental role in creating more technology setting the tone for global conflict**
Joronen, 2k10 (Mikko, Dept of Geography and Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, U of Turku, The Age of Planetary Space: On Heidegger, Being, and Metaphysics of Globalization, pg 131-139)

As described above, … world-views stand on are ever under suspect.

**Current violent policies are not a matter of choice but become preordained by a reliance on western metaphysics – only challenging dominant ontology can influence the policy process**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 2k7</span> (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, Theory and Event, 10.2, Muse)
My argument here, whilst normatively sympathetic to Kant's ...rule of insecurity and violence? Will our thought?


**Thus,**

**Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Resolve is not to be found in a willful action, but as a steadfastedness to allow the revelations of being. This allows for a new mode of political action outside the arbitrary whims of the sovereign ego**
Pezze, 2006 (Barbara, PhD Philosophy at Honk Kong U, “Heidegger on Gelassenheit”, Minerva, vol .10, http://www.ul.ie/~philos/vol10/Heidegger.html)
Let us pause for a … itself into and remained always the composure of releasement [Verhaltenheit der Gelassenheit]. (Heidegger 1966a, p. 81)

**Our stance of resolve in the face of modern technological enframing allows for a new relationship with Being and space—remaining open to new modes of revealing is a prerequisite for allowing new forms of political action to reveal themselves outside of the standing reserve**
Joronen, 2k10 (Mikko, Dept of Geography and Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, U of Turku, The Age of Planetary Space: On Heidegger, Being, and Metaphysics of Globalization, pg 97-99)

What Heidegger obviously … be-ing lost by the tradition of its oblivion.

**Ontology comes first - you have to make ontological assumptions to act and understand truth**
Hay 6 [Colin Hay; 2006; Oxford Handbooks of Political Science, Political Ontology; pg. 78-80; MV]
The terms ‘‘political’’ and … and practical political consequences.



=Negative= 
T bases
Deterrence K
Other than that
==Ks== 
===Heidegger=== 
**The affirmatives attempt to explore/develop space denies Earthbound ontology, destroying our ability to connect with our ‘world’**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turnbull 6</span> (Neil, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus: Global Being in the Planetary World”, Theory, Culture & Society 2006 (SAGE, London, Thousand Oaks and New Delhi), Vol. 23(1): 125–139, Project Muse MV)
What Nietzsche is suggesting ... the anthropocentric measure of all things).

**Current violent policies are not a matter of choice but become preordained by a reliance on western metaphysics – only challenging dominant ontology can influence the policy process**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 2k7</span> (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, Theory and Event, 10.2, Muse)
My argument here, whilst normatively sympathetic to Kant's ...rule of insecurity and violence? Will our thought?

**Thus the alt, the judge should vote negative to engage in meditative thought**
**Meditative Thinking unfolds onto itself and into other forms of thinking subsuming all benefits of other thinking and is the only way to progress**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beistegui 98</span> [Miguel de Beistegui; Published in 1998; Heidegger & the Political: Dystopias; Pg 2-3; MV]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To think is to risk. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Every thinking... thematization of opinion, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">or to the demands of performance</span>.

**Ontology comes first - you have to make ontological assumptions to act and understand truth**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hay 6</span> [Colin Hay; 2006; Oxford Handbooks of Political Science, Political Ontology; pg. 78-80; MV]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The terms </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘‘political’’ and ‘‘ontology’’ </span>...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> practical political consequences</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pearl Harbor </span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Using Pearl Harbor to symbolize surprise attacks reinforces anti-Asian racism and justifies violence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">WHITE 1997</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Geoffrey, East-West Center, “Mythic History and National Memory: The Pearl Harbor Anniversary,” Culture & Psychology, March)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The second feature of ... </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the news media</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**The American narrative of World War II is used to justify racist crusades against all enemies—the myth of World War II as the “good war” will result in nuclear extinction**
**CHERNUS 1991**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Ira, prof of religious studies at UC Boulder, Nuclear Madness: Religion and the Psychology of the Nuclear Age)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">According to Eliade's theory, ...</span> __heat we need for a global renewal__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


===Pan stuff=== 
**<span style="color: black;">There has always been a China security threat—these perceptions are created by the US military-industrial complex. Our institutions need enemies to survive, and China fits the bill—this cycle of enemy creation necessitates the sacrificial destruction of millions.</span>**
**Clark, 06** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(No Rest for 'China Threat' Lobby, Gregory Clark is vice president of Akita International University and a former Australian diplomat. Japan Times, Jan. 7, 2006, </span>[[http://taiwansecurity.org/News/2006/JT-070106.htm]]<span style="font-size: 7pt;">). </span>
__For as long as ...__ __And millions have died__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**The United States creates enemies to define ourselves as a great civilization—China fulfills this role when we treat them as a threat. Instead, we should question western metaphysics**
**Pan, 04** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Political Science, Australian National U, Chengxin, Department of Political Science at Australian National University, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, Alternatives, June-July, ebscohost)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What does this ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> category of otherness</span>__


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]