[[toc]]
=note= 
affirmative - [[mailto:tennisxu@gmail.com|tennisxu@gmail.com]]
negative - [[mailto:upgrade.unlocked@gmail.com|upgrade.unlocked@gmail.com]]

=affirmative= 
==tsats – pennsbury== 
===transmission security adv.=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 13px; text-align: left;">**There’s a massive and rapidly growing shortage of protected satellite bandwidth – the military’s current plan to supplement new communications satellites with long-term commercial leases will fail – it ensures vulnerability to jamming and interference**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 13px; text-align: left;">**Werner, ‘11**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">(Debra Werner, “Demanding times: U.S. military forges new relationship with satcom industry,” C4ISR Journal, 6-1-2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.c4isrjournal.com/story.php?F=6320183]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Military officials have lamented [...] sudden surge in demand.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Capability gaps will be filled by leasing commercial bandwidth, creating vulnerabilities that prevent networked operations - only TSAT can solve</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Thompson ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Loren B. Thompson, Chief Operating Officer of the Lexington Institute, former Professor and Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, Ph.D., M.A., Government, Georgetown University, B.S., Political Science, Northeastern University, “Lack Of Protected Satellite Communications Could Mean Defeat For Joint Force In Future War,” 4-14-2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/lack-of-protected-satellite-communications-could-mean-defeat-for-joint-force-in-future-war?a=1&c=1171]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">In the years since [...] Satellite program, or TSAT.</span>

====**net war scenario**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Shifting to network-centric warfare is key to heg – the coming paradigm shift in the rules of war makes conventional power useless, this makes heg sustainable. Don’t evaluate their NCW turns – we don’t completely eliminate conventional warfare</span>**
**<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">Arquilla, ’10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">John Arquilla, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, MARCH/APRIL 2010, “The New Rules of War”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 11px;">In another sign of [...] the world from darkness.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">**The concept of information dominance is entrenched in DoD doctrine – it’s only a question of effectiveness**</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">**Groh, '10**</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">Professor of Information and Technology in Warfare in the Department of Distance Education at the U.S. Army War College, retired Armor Officer, D.Sc., Robert Morris University (Jeffrey, July 2010, The U.S. Army War College Guide to National Security Issues, Volume I: Theory of War and Strategy, 4th Ed., “Chapter 23: The Network-Centric Warfare Journey: Realizing the Power of Information,” [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/63365888/4thEditionStategyofWarSSI]])</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">Now that the literature review [...] with NCW, but how.</span></span>
**Even if hard power is still key, information dominance is a __prerequisite__ for its deployment.**
**<span class="Cite">Lowe, ’10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Chris Lowe, Major, US Army; School of Advanced Military Studies, US Army Command and General Staff College, 2010, “From ‘Battle’ to the ‘Battle of Ideas’: The Meaning and Misunderstanding of Information Operations,” [[http://usacac.army.mil/cac2/IPO/repository/Lowe_Monograph.pdf]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Introducing language that would [...]<span class="Cite"> of its military force.</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">A collapse of heg results in multiple scenarios great power wars</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Zhang and Shi, ‘11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">*Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (1/22/11, America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 11px;">This does not necessarily [...] devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**Even if multipolarity’s desirable the transition would be chaotic – multiple fast wars go nuclear.**
**Posen and Ross, '97**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Barry and Andrew, winter 1997, prof of PoliSci in the Defense and Arms Control Studies Program at MIT and prof of National Security Studies at the Naval War College, International Security, p ebsco</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 13px;">The United States can [...] those not directly involved.</span>

**Extinction**
**Nye, '90**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Joseph, 1990, fmr Dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, Bound to Lead, p. 17</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 13px;">Perceptions of change in [...] know it may end.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Even if they win that multipolarity is good, collapse causes apolarity – that uniquely leads to nuclear war and AIDS.</span>**
**<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">Ferguson, ‘04</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Niall Ferguson, Herzog professor of history at New York University's Stern School of Business and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, July-August 2004, Foreign Policy, Issue 143, p. 32.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The worst effects of [...] a not-so-new world disorder.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Don’t evaluate their NCW or GIG turns – DoD monitoring and interoperability of NCW checks back all their impacts and ensures solvency</span>**
**<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">Wilson, ‘07</span>****
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Clay Wilson, Specialist in Technology and National Security Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, “Network Centric Operations: Background and Oversight Issues for Congress”, CRS report for Congress, march 15, pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">NCO is highly dependent [...] deliberations at the Pentagon.</span>

====**cyberterror scenario**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Only the plan ensures resilience to cyber attacks</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Northrop Grunsman, ‘06**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Northrop Grunsman Corporation, http://www.irconnect.com/noc/press/pages/news_releases.html?d=110183)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">A Transformational Satellite Communications [...] now with TSAT development.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">More evidence – TSAT is uniquely key to provide reliable and swift communications to multiple military assets – non-space methods fail</span>**
**<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">Canan, ‘06</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">James W. Canan, former senior editor of Air Force Magazine, “Timing in Battle: The T-Sat Edge”, AEROSPACE AMERICA/JANUARY 2006, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aiaa.org/Aerospace/images/articleimages/pdf/AA_Jan06_CAN.pdf|www.aiaa.org/Aerospace/images/articleimages/pdf/AA_Jan06_CAN.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">By all accounts, the [...] a Pentagon document proclaims. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Resiliency is essential to prevent inevitable cyber-terrorism from escalating to nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Johnson, ‘09 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Bobbie Johnson, citing a study by the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, “Terrorists could use internet to launch nuclear attack: report,” The Guardian (UK), 7-24-2009,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2009/jul/24/internet-cyber-attack-terrorists]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Terrorists groups could soon [...] into a nuclear response.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Morgan ‘9 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, 41(10), December 2009, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">In a remarkable website [...] suffering in a nuclear winter.</span>

===plan text=== 
**The United States Department of Defense should deploy the Transformational Satellite Communications System.**

===solvency=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Only TSAT’s solve NCW – alts fail</span>**
**<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">Meink, '06 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">[Dr. Troy, Director, Communications Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense/ Networks and Information Integration, was the Transformation Satellite Communications System program director at the Military Satellite Communications Joint Program Office, Space and Missile Systems Center. He has a doctorate degree in aeronautical and astronautical engineering from Ohio State University. “Transformational Communications Systems for DoD Net-Centric Operations”, July, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crosstalkonline.org/storage/issue-archives/2006/200607/200607-Meink.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">TSAT is the cornerstone [...] this critical warfighter requirement.</span>

**TSAT technology viable now**
**Space War, '07**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Space War.com Information on Space Militarization, July 10th 2007, “TSAT Team Demonstrates Technology Maturity Of Laser Communications Subsystem”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacewar.com/reports/TSAT_Team_Demonstrates_Technology_Maturity_Of_Laser_Communications_Subsystem_999.html]]</span>, Accessed on 8-24-ll//AXU)//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 11px;">A recent test conducted [...] essential program for the warfighter.</span>//

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">TSAT meets requirements – Transformational COM study proves</span>**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Canan, '06</span>**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">James W., former senior editor of Air Force Magazine, [“Timing in Battle: The T-Sat Edge”, AEROSPACE AMERICA/JANUARY 2006, www.aiaa.org/Aerospace/images/articleimages/pdf/AA_Jan06_CAN.pdf, mcG]</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11px; text-align: left;">The T-Sat system is the [...] point-to-point or multipoint connectivity.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**No solvency deficits – TSATs can be implemented efficiently and effectively – we have the infrastructure necessary for the plan**
**<span class="Cite">Canan, ‘06</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">James W. Canan, former senior editor of Air Force Magazine, “Timing in Battle: The T-Sat Edge”, Aerospace America – January 2006 Edition</span>
<span class="Underline" style="font-size: 11px;">Some officials have expressed [...] all advanced technology elements.</span>

<span class="Cite">**TSATs will replace AEHF**</span>
<span class="Cite">**Global Security, '11** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(GlobalSecurity.com, ‘Transformational Communications Satellite (TSAT): Advanced Wideband System’, http://www.globalsecurity.org/space/systems/tsat.htm, Accessed on 8-23-11</span>AXU)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">As the terrestrial aspects [...] processing or routing information.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**AEHF can’t solve – vulnerable to jamming and hacking.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Lesser, '08**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Hartley, Editorial Director, SatNews Publishers, January 2008, “MILSATCOM Systems Wing” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1258449709&method=print]]</span>, Accessed on 8-24-11AXU)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 13px;">TSAT is the DoD's [...] estimated to cost US$24.0B</span>

<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">**TSAT is specifically key to Solve bandwidth Shortages– Current Satellite communications don’t meet ISR needs** </span>
<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">**JDSB, '08** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">[Report of the Joint Defense Science Board Intelligence Science Board Task Force on Integrating Sensor-Collected Intelligence, November, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/irp/agency/dod/dsb/sensors.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;"><span style="background-color: white;">Just as the military [...] </span>military and intelligence operations.</span>

**<span class="Cite" style="font-size: 13px;">TSAT is the only system that works – AEHF and WGS Fail</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Uhrich, '08</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Colonel David,Vice Commander, Military Satellite Communications System Wing of the Space and Missile Center, 08 [“PRIORITY BRIEFING WITH Colonel David C. Uhrich” MiltSat Magazine, January, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=2074520599]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">With TSAT, everything changes [...]<span style="background-color: white;"> connect two terrestrial segments.</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Bandwidth solves extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Del Rosario, ’09</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Jose Del Rosario, NSR <span class="subheading">Senior Analyst & Regional Director</span>, MilSatMagazine, 7/2009, “PRIORITY BRIEFING: Enabling The Warfighter: Commercial Or Military Bandwidth?”, http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=689746809)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Flashpoints around the globe [...] impossible to conduct effectively.</span>

**Vulnerable to jamming now – comsatcom fails**
**Rooker, '08**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(R.F, Major in the US Army, February 18th 2008, ‘Satellite Vulnerabilities’, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA507952%26Location=U2%26doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>, Accessed on 11-19-11</span>AXU)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">In addition to physical attacks [...] with potentially dire results</span>
=negative= 
===elections=== 
**Obama win chance high now and rising but fragile.**
**Gergen, 12-22-11**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">David Gergen, 12-22-2011, senior political analyst for CNN and has been an adviser to four presidents, professor of public service and director of the Center for Public Leadership at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, “Why the winds are shifting toward Obama,” http://www.cnn.com/2011/12/22/opinion/gergen-obama-resurgence/index.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Even though House Republicans [...] that could happen again.</span>

**Romney will run but Obama can beat him.**
**Hunt, 12-25-11**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Albert R. Hunt, 12-25-2011, executive editor for Washington at Bloomberg News, “Republicans May Be Dealing Obama a Winning Hand,” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/republicans-may-be-dealing-obama-a-winning-hand-albert-r-hunt.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">This time around, former [...] to have a good target.</span>

**Expanding space policy blocks Obama’s reelection – perceived as unnecessary spending.**
**Smith, '10**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Marcia Smith, 11-3-2010, editor of SpacePolicyOnline.com and President of Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC, frmr Director of the Space Studies Board and of the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the U.S. National Research Council (2006-2009), frmr specialist in aerospace and telecommunications policy at the Congressional Research Service (1975-2006), frmr Executive Director of the U.S. National Commission on Space (1985-1986), “What the Election Means for NASA,” http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1204:what-the-election%20-means-for-nasa</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The Republican takeover of [...] federal spending cut tsunami.</span>

**Space policy is an easy target for Romney – Obama should keep it on the back burner.**
**Matthews, 12-28-11**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Mark K. Matthews, 12-28-2011, Washington Bureau, “NASA no priority for most presidential candidates,” Orlando Sentinel, http://articles.orlandosentinel.com/2011-12-28/news/os-nasa-space-politics-20111228_1_moon-program-half-century-of-nasa-tradition-beleaguered-space-agency</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Of all the presidential [...] half-century of NASA tradition.</span>

**Romney will start a trade war with China.**
**Ewing, '11**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Kent Ewing, 11-30-2011, Hong Kong-based teacher and writer, “Obama takes early aim at China for 2012,” Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/MK30Ad01.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">On his recent Asia-Pacific tour [...] as many economists expect.</span>

**China-US economic relationship vital to human survival.**
**Wenzhong, '04**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Zhou Wenzhong, 2-7-2004, Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to the United States, frmr Vice Minister, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, “Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative Relationship Between China and the United States --In commemoration of the 25th anniversary of China-US diplomatic relations,” Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China, http://www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/wjdt/zyjh/t64286.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Given the highly complementary [...] in China-US relations.</span>








[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]