[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Edina (MN) - Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Return to main page]]

=Politics= 
==SKFTA== 
===1NC - Greenhill RR=== 
SKFTA will pass but PC is key
Palmer 9/2 Doug, Reuters Reporter, " Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall," 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902

After a slow start that has [...] the Senate to approve the trade pacts


<link>


Free trade agreements would boost the US economy and power projection—empirics prove
Riley 7/11/11 (Bryan, Jay Van Andel Senior Analyst in Trade Policy in the Center for International Trade and Economics at The Heritage Foundation, “Win–Win Trade Agreements Would Boost the U.S. Economy”, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/07/Free-Trade-Agreements-Would-Boost-the-US-Economy)

Debates about trade and tariffs are [...] average score of 87.[4]


US economic leadership creates an incentives framework that prevents these wars from going nuclear—isolationism causes them
Mandelbaum ‘5 – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005
[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224]

At best, an American withdrawal [...] large numbers, of nuclear weapons.
==Jobs== 
===1NC - St Marks=== 
Jobs will pass but capital is key – solves infrastructure and the economy
Adam Staropoli, writer for The Cowl, Providence College's Newspaper, 9/15/11, "Obama Unveils His Latest Jobs Plan", www.thecowl.com/world/obama-unveils-his-latest-jobs-plan-1.2592059

There is no doubt that the [...] do something to help the economy."


<link>


And it’s key to the economy
Chris Isidore, CNN Money, 9/9/11, “Jobs plan may create 1 million jobs – economists”, http://money.cnn.com/2011/09/09/news/economy/obama_jobs_plan_impact/, umn-rks

NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- [...] of those times," he added.


Nuclear war – turns every impact
Harris and Burrows 9 Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf Increased Potential for Global Conflict

Of course, the report encompasses [...] dog-eat-dog world.
===2NC Uniqueness - St Marks=== 
Specifically, infrastructure components will pass
Suzy Khimm, Washington Post, 10/13/11, “GOP: the party of maybe?”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/gop-the-party-of-maybe/2011/10/12/gIQANfE1fL_blog.html, umn-rks

Less than 24 hours after voting [...] a match made in Senate heaven.”


THIRD, payroll components will pass
All Voices, 10-12/11, http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10591202-jobs-bill-fails-to-pass-the-senate-democrats-propose-new-strategy

Sen. Charles Schumer (D [...] has a chance of bipartisan support.


Jobs will pass – Obama push on individual parts is key
Greg Sargent, Washington Post, 10/12/11, “The Morning Plum”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/the-morning-plum/2011/10/12/gIQALE20eL_blog.html, umn-rks

Two separate but related things happened  [...] if a Republican is elected president.


==Shutdown==
===1NC - Iowa Caucus===

Congress is in place to pass spending measures that avoid a Nov. 18th shutdown.
The Hill 10/26/11 (Russell Berman, “House GOP preparing another stopgap to fund government to Christmas,” http://thehill.com/homenews/house/190035-house-gop-preparing-another-stopgap-to-fund-government-to-christmas)

House Republicans are crafting another stopgap  [...] the Christmas break,” Rogers said.


The plan is a spending appropriation that cannot be cut – in a budgetary environment where all space funding is on the table, that’s uniquely controversial.
Handberg ’11 (Roger, Chair of Political Science at the University of Central Florida, 7/25, “The beginning of the end or the end of the beginning?” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1890/1)

The more recent events surrounding the  [...] being sucked into the whirlpool of congress


Those spending fights derail any chance of a deal on shutdown.
Young, 10/14/11 (JT, Department of Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget from 2001 -2004 and as a Congressional staff member from 1987-2000, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=46859)

Also, the stakes this time  [...] than there is a painless solution.


Kills the economy.
Weiss '11 (Martin, April 7, http://www.investorplace.com/2011/04/government-shutdown-whats-next/)

Make no mistake: If the  [...] the U.S. economy.


Nuclear war.
Merlini, Senior Fellow – Brookings, 11 [Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe and chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome. He served as IAI president from 1979 to 2001. Until 2009, he also occupied the position of executive vice chairman of the Council for the United States and Italy, which he co-founded in 1983. His areas of expertise include transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology. A Post-Secular World?  Survival, 53:2, 117 – 130]

Two neatly opposed scenarios for the  [...] secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.

==Links== 
===Climate Programs Links===
CONGRESS HATES CLIMATE PROGRAMS, REASON WHY DSCOVR WAS TRASHED, WASTE OF MONEY
BOYLE ’11 (Boyle, Popular Science, leading source of technology and science news magazine,“As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather Satellite Gap”, 23 May 2011, ) < http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap>

NOAA Administrator Jane Lubchenco said at  [...] people have come to expect today.”

===Environmental Monitoring Links=== 
The plan guarantees a political battle -- costs capital.
Boyle, 11 (5/23/11, Rebecca, Popular Science, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather Satellite Gap,” http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap, Sawyer)

Amid all this, the country’s [...] in danger of losing its funding.

===ORS Links=== 
ORS costs capital and leads to backlash
Rendleman, 10 - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

Whether the DOD will decide to [...] to support a winning space strategy.

===Space Defense Links=== 
Space defenses are politically controversial-empirically proven
Pfaltzgraff 09 (Robert L.- is President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies, The Fletcher School, Tufts University. He has advised key of¬ficials on military strategy, defense modernization, He has served on the International Security Advisory Board (ISAB), U.S. State Department, Co-Chairman of the Independent Working Group “Boost-Phase Missile Defense”, 4/3/09, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Pfaltzgraff_Boost-Phase.Missile.Defense_Capitol.Hill-Marshall.Inst_3.April.09.pdf)np

Space-based defenses as well [...] ballistic missiles as well as ICBMs.


===SPS Links=== 
Plan is unpopular – budget concerns
Alan Boyle, science editor at MSNBC, 2/25/11, “How serious is space solar power?”, http://cosmiclog.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2011/02/25/6135463-how-serious-is-space-solar-power, umn-rks

The idea was to beam enough [...] difficult to attract a sponsor organization."

===SSA Links=== 
The plan unpopular—perceived as a data sharing mechanism
Weeden 10- Brian Weeden, Technical Advisor for Secure World Foundation, Secure World Foundation Published 1 August 2010, The Norad Experience: Implications for International Space Surveillance Data-Sharing Executive http://swfound.org/media/1817/norad-exec-summ-bw-2010.pdf

A similar situation exists with SSA [...] some level of data sharing.

=Russia DA=
==Nationalism 1NC - Caucus==
US abdication of space is boosting Russia’s international image
Mack 11 – (3/25/2011, David, “Russia’s New Space Odyssey”, CSIS, http://csis.org/blog/russias-new-space-odyssey) MGM

In this decade Russia is looking  [...] true pioneers of mankind’s final frontier. 


Space accomplishments are key to Russian national pride
HARVEY 2007 (Brian, author of several books about space, The rebirth of the Russian space program: 50 years after Sputnik, new frontiers, p. 334)

The commitment of the Russians to  [...] dream that went back two centuries.


Power is zero-sum – a weakened Russia emboldens nationalism
Barry 9 – Moscow correspondent for The New York Times (1/12/2009, Ellen, “U.S.-Russia relations at a crossroads; Moscow can elect path of cooperation or one of retrenchment”, The International Herald Tribune, Lexis) MGM

But others see the crisis pushing  [...] would expand the definition of treason. 


Russian nationalism leads to nuclear war and extinction
Israelyan 98 Victor was a Soviet ambassador, diplomat, arms control negotiator, and leading political scientist. The Washington Quarterly, Winter)

The first and by far most  [...] we all fall down together." n12


==Relations 1NC - St. Marks==
NASA decline has forced us to depend on Russia – causes a new “spirit of cooperation”—plan’s unilateral action would reverse this
O’Flynn 10 – (3/24/10, Kevin O’Flynn, special to Russia Now, “Russia makes space for U.S.,” http://rbth.ru/articles/2010/03/24/240310_space.html DH) 

On April 2, new Soyuz  [...] upmanship as well as scientific endeavor. 


Space underlies ALL other aspects of cooperation – the plan crushes relations
Logsdon and Millar 01 – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf DH) 

Yet, to one participant,  [...] giving them a psychological fig leaf."


US-Russian relations prevent Russia-China war
Newsweek, 95 (5/15, lexis)

"Russia," says Deputy Secretary  [...] , economic development and the rest.


Russia-China war kills hundreds of millions and ends in extinction
Sharavin, 1 (Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, “What the Papers Say”, 10/3)

Chinese propaganda has constantly been showing  [...] frost of a possible nuclear winter.




=Weaponization DA= 
==1NC - Greenhill RR== 

Obama is pursuing a framework of cooperation in space now – solves militarization
Huntley, 11 - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)

As is well understood, the [...] devils may lurk in these details.


<link>


Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war
Hitchens, 8 – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)

Perhaps of even greater concern is [...] alternative would be unacceptable to all.


Causes Accidents and first use
Mitchell et al, 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)

A buildup of space weapons might [...] most destructive military conflict ever seen.

==Defensive Capabilities Links== 

Even defensive capabilities trigger backlash
Zhang 11 – Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies @ Lingnan University, Hong Kong [Baohui Zhang, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332)

This strategy of space dominance, [...] of the world won’t accept.”17



==Space Dominance Links== 

The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy
Dant, 11 - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf)

Cooperation for contested and competitive domain [...] of responsible space-faring nations.


Even defensive capabilities trigger backlash
Zhang 11 – Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies @ Lingnan University, Hong Kong [Baohui Zhang, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332)

This strategy of space dominance, [...] of the world won’t accept.”17



==SPS Links== 

Unilateral development of SPS sends a signal that destroys this
Glaser, 8 - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf) DH

Glaser: Since it would be [...] satellites built by an international effort.

==TSATs Links== 
TSATs are built for war in space
Dinerman 9 – part-time consultant for the DOD, well-known and respected space writer regarding military and civilian space activities (1/12/2009, Taylor, “Rethinking TSAT: survivability first”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1282/1) MGM

It is likely that a future [...] the time to examine these things.


==Unilateral Links== 

Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation
Sabathier et. al 6— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)

International cooperation is valuable to a [...] beneficial cooperation would be more likely.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]