[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
v. justice
Oppression is a barrier to justice
Ethics of care promotes justice. The ethics of care involves the needs individual in their relation to the society at large. Daniel Engster**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Can Care Ethics be Institutionalized? Toward a Caring Natural Law Theory* </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniel Engster Assistant Professor Department of Political Science</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The University of Texas at San Antonio 6900 North Loop 1604 West San Antonio, Texas 78249</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[mailto:dengster@utsa.edu|dengster@utsa.edu]] http://www.csus.edu/org/wpsa/pisigmaalphaaward.pdf</span>
Joan Tronto has…. Of the good

Ethics of care evaluates relationships from an individualistic perspective while simultaneously acknowledging the needs of individuals in a communal setting. Virginia Held<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> //<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Virginia Held</span>//, The //<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Ethics of Care</span>//: Personal, Political, Global, Oxford University Press, 2006</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://books.google.com/books?id=3uwSL10Xn_AC&printsec=frontcover&dq=virginia+held+ethics+of+care&source=bl&ots=PryAAGKzln&sig=THue4cS3lKE6GYL0ISh4937IKWY&hl=en&ei=MIvcTOfZHsH6lwfHlv3cBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&sqi=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwAw#v=onepage&q&f=false</span>
/ Not only does…better caring relations
Ethics of care is the most coherent ethical theory. Held 2/ my own suggestion…those deemed unfit
Ethics of care therefore provides the best system of morality because it encompasses the needs of all. Engster 2/ Caring involves stepping… his problematic situation

C1: the rejection of animal rights causes oppression of women
Oppression of women stems from comparing women to animals which allows oppression. Oliver/ 
[[http://muse.jhu.edu/login?uri=/journals/journal_of_speculative_philosophy/v022/22.3.oliver.html]]
one reason why…explicit military policy
Val Plumwood explains the patriarchal nature of reason as a standard for value and worth, denying it as a standard of evaluation. Plumwood/
[[http://books.google.com/books?id=cedFnAxau_8C&pg=PA3&lpg=PA3&dq=%22Dualism+has+formed+the+modern+political+landscape+of+the+west+as+much+as+the+ancient+one.+In+this+landscape,+nature+must+be+seen+as+a+political+rather%22&source=bl&ots=E_UrE-vndF&sig=PARc8-U_xqpRldEbYTcfM1zvHFE&hl=en&ei=A-l0TtD7Co6AsgLR1_GLBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBkQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22Dualism%20has%20formed%20the%20modern%20political%20landscape%20of%20the%20west%20as%20much%20as%20the%20ancient%20one.%20In%20this%20landscape%2C%20nature%20must%20be%20seen%20as%20a%20political%20rather%22&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=cedFnAxau_8C&pg=PA3&lpg=PA3&dq=%22Dualism+has+formed+the+modern+political+landscape+of+the+west+as+much+as+the+ancient+one.+In+this+landscape,+nature+must+be+seen+as+a+political+rather%22&source=bl&ots=E_UrE-vndF&sig=PARc8-U_xqpRldEbYTcfM1zvHFE&hl=en&ei=A-l0TtD7Co6AsgLR1_GLBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBkQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22Dualism%20has%20formed%20the%20modern%20political%20landscape%20of%20the%20west%20as%20much%20as%20the%20ancient%20one.%20In%20this%20landscape%2C%20nature%20must%20be%20seen%20as%20a%20political%20rather%22&f=false]]
Dualism has formed…devalue the maternal role
, By holding beings to the arbitrary standard of reason for acquiring rights, and by forwarding dualist dichotomies, which develops binary “up-down” values and worth. Warren 1/
http://books.google.com/books?id=UD0cjQ82lr0C&pg=PA107&lpg=PA107&dq=%22A+patriarchal+conceptual+framework+is+characterized+by+value-hierarchical+thinking%22&source=bl&ots=CDZ_2lOKi3&sig=m5qrQYTfkamudfZHh-Ym7301ysA&hl=en&ei=Hul0TvnOCPKksQKOkvSLBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBwQ6AEwAA
A patriarchal conceptual…maintained by patriarchy




==Negative== 
The value is justice defined as giving each her fair due.
The standard is protecting the environment.
First, because our world has finite resources, the consequence of our actions must be within the limitations of the environment. Herschel Elliot1 writes,
Holmes Rolston(Professor of Philosophy at Colorado State University), Environmental Ethics (Temple University Press, 1988)
An ethics capable … of its denial.
Second, we must put more value on environment than the organisms that thrive in it. Holmes Rolston<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> writes,
Holmes Rolston(Professor of Philosophy at Colorado State University), Environmental Ethics (Temple University Press, 1988)
Aldo Leopold, a … species, ourselves included.

My sole contention is that not recognizing animal rights is essential for the environment.

----
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> Holmes Rolston(Professor of Philosophy at Colorado State University), //Environmental Ethics// (Temple University Press, 1988)

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]