[[toc]]
For cites email [[mailto:packrat386@gmail.com|packrat386@gmail.com]] for the NEG and [[mailto:saxman11952@gmail.com|saxman11952@gmail.com]] for the AFF
=Affirmative= 
==KCKCC 1AC (Read by CM)== 

===Plan=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should give recognition, certification, and full legal support to extra-terrestrial property ownership claims by any private entity based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

===Contention 1: ECON=== 

**Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
Currently, most ventures are performed … - of-right to the final product.

**Conflicting interpretations of the OST have brought private space development to a halt – the aff fills a vacuum in current space legislation and causes massive commercial space development**
Alan **Wasser and** Douglas **Jobes**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **2008** Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW
IV. RECOGNITION OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP … on natural and civil law.

**Most accurate indicators say econ collapse is coming now – prefer our evidence, it’s most qualified and predictive**
**Sommer – 10/8** (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business]]</span>) CJC
LET’S face it: economic forecasting is … they have now, he says.

**Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space**
Ezra J. **Reinstein**, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, **1999**, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59
Space offers the potential for … for a long time to come.

**Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment**
**Jobes 5** (Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” Space Times, volume: 44, May/June, p. 10) HD
And what would motivate Congress … will be a space construction boom."

**Space holds the key to the next industrial revolution—one asteroid is worth $1 trillion, helium-3 energy provides infinite energy, unique environment of space benefits the medicine and biotech industries**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
"The Environment of space … kind of change is needed.

**Economic decline causes global war**
**Royal 10** – Director of CTR
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs**
**Griswold 5**** (Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, Free Trade, 12.29.5, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282)
Many causes lie behind the … with its own peace dividend.

===Contention 2: OST=== 

**The Outer Space Treaty is on the cusp of failure. The outdated treaty makes private investment impossible and a mass exodus from the treaty likely.**
**Quinn 8** (Adam G., J.D./M.B.A. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,” Minnesota Journal of International Law, Summer) HD
Because the drafters of the … a substantive set of space laws.

**Commercial activity in space makes mass OST withdrawal inevitable in the status quo – countries will withdraw to avoid property rights questions**
**Dinkin 4** (Sam, Ph.D. economist, July 12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/179/1)
The Outer Space Treaty may … to grow up after all.

**One withdrawal from the OST causes others and kills development.**
**Gabrynowicz 7** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, October 22, http://rescommunis.wordpress.com/2007/10/22/the-outer-space-treaty-still-relevant-and-important-after-all-these-years/ 6/26/11) HD
Finally, the motive for the … the political will to do so.

**Total OST withdrawal undermines the foundation of the entire space treaty regime – clarification over property rights is required to avoid legal instability.**
**Gabrynowicz 5** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf) HD
As regards to property rights … eliminating the existing legal structure.

**OST consultation process is key to dissuading weaponizers and avoiding misunderstandings from escalating to conflict.**
**Marder 8** (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe New Life into Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty,” June 2008, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/ChineseASATtest.pdf DA; 6/26/11)
Finally, the most valuable benefit … a weaponized space is a present threat.

**Impact – weaponizing space prompts Russia and China to put their weapons on hair trigger alert – leads to high risk of nuclear terrorism, accidental war, and unauthorized launch.**
**Lewis, 04** – Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM), Jeffrey, July, 2004, “What if Space Were Weaponized?: Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios”, pg. 22-24, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf, CDI)
The Russians already continue to … China to do the opposite.

**Extinction**
**Bostrom 2** (Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>)
The first manmade existential risk … encounter in the 21st century.

**Now is key to fill the gaps in the space treaty with national laws like the plan – empirically solves in space.**
**Gabrynowicz 5** (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf) HD
The second option for modifying … that quits forfeits the game.

**I-Law precedent indicates the first country to interpret a treaty will set a pattern that other countries follow.**
Alan **Wasser and** Douglas **Jobes**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **2008** Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW
Some experts argue that the … the de facto international standard. 93

**Aff solves – US unilateral action is best and complies with existing precedent.**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
The problems with international methods … agreed-upon international regime." n372

**The US’s position as a leader in space means that our national policies are the main influence on international legal frameworks.**
**Porras – 6** ( Daniel A. Porras, J.D., Associate Officer International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, focused on International Land and Outer Space Law; “The "Common Heritage" of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”; California Western International Law Journal; 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143; Fall, 2006; Lexis) CJC
Man has been exploring his … frameworks are adopted or rejected.

**The lack of an explicit ban on private property rights means that there’s no ban – other nations and legal scholars agree.**
**Brittingham** – Professor – **10** (Bryon C. Brittingham, J.D., Teacher of Business, Law, and English for a Specific Purpose (ESP) course in various countries to professionals at overseas universities; “Does the World Really Need New Space Law?”; OREGON REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL LAW; Vol. 12, 31; 2010; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.uoregon.edu/org/oril/docs/12-1/brittingham.pdf]]</span>) CJC
Assuming that “the province of … the possibility of private claims. 54

**Government interpretation of increasing exploration and/or development means recognition of property rights in space.**
**Sattler** – Space Enterprise Council – **5** (Rosanna Sattler, Esq. is a Partner with Posternak Blankstein & Lund LLP in Boston, Massachusetts. She is a commercial litigator, and chairs the firm's Space Law and Telecommunications Group. Ms. Sattler is a member of the Board of Directors of the US Chamber of Commerce, and she is Chair of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Inc. She is also a member of the Space Enterprise Council and the Forum on Air and Space Law of the American Bar Association; “Symposium: Issues in Space Law: Transporting a Legal System for Property Rights: From the Earth to the Stars”; Chicago Journal of International Law; 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 23; Summer, 2005; Lexis) CJC
By the year 2020, humans will … develop space resources and infrastructure. n7

**Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts, even if it has no economic role whatsoever**
**Sen, 2000** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)
Before I go on to the … the class of causal connections.


===Contention 3: Enframing=== 

**Omission is not exclusion; NO discursive act can include everything; this doesn't mean we reject or marginalize these concerns**
**Rorty**, Professor of Comparative Literature @ Stanford, `**02** (Richard, Peace Review, vol. 14, no. 2, p. 152-153)
I have no quarrel with … told, in many other ways.


**Positivism is the ONLY credible epistemology and is key to decision making and change – the game is out there, it’s play or be played. Any alternative leads to relativism and chaos.**
GEORG **SØRENSEN**, MA, political science (1975) PhD, social science (1983) (Trans national Corporations and Economic Development) Dr.scient.pol. (1993) (Democracy and Development.) Professor, International Politics and Economics, Aarhus Univ. Review of International Studies 24, **1998** ,IR Theory after the cold war p. 87-88
What, then, are the more … embrace any conceivable change project.28


**Their critique of ontology and epistemology creates theory-driven politics – prefer our specific, empirical explanations for the aff.**
**Owen 2** (David Owen, Professor of Political Theory @ University of Southampton, 2002, “Re-orienting International Relations: On Pragmatism, Pluralism and Practical Reasoning”, Millenium: Journal of International Studies 31.3 Pgs. 655-657)
Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … so a potentially vicious circle arises.

==1AC - Glenbrooks== 
Enframing contention was not read. All previous evidence that was read on the advantages was read. The cards below were additions to the advantages, respectively.

===Economy=== 

No impact takeouts—history proves
Green and Schrage 9—associate prof @ Georgetown and senior advisor @ CSIS AND CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office (Michael and Steven, “It's not just the economy,” 3/26/9, Asian Times, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html]], DA: 11/17/2011//JLENART)

Facing the worst economic crisis … the critical challenges we face.

Transition away from growth kills millions—we can’t shut the system off
Barnhizer 6 (David R., Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law; “Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government.” 2006 Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. 18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595 L/N)

We face a combination of ecological, … <span style="text-decoration: none;">the pattern once again intensifies</span>.

===Outer Space Treaty=== 

No alt causes—Chinese ASAT test didn’t violate the OST
Juqian 9 - associate professor at the China University of Political Science and Law and the director of the China Institute of Space Law (Li, Winter 2009, “Legality and Legitimacy: China’s ASAT Test”, pg. 47-48, http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/LiJuqian.pdf)

According to Article IV of … of the international space law.

==MBA 1AC== 

===PLAN=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should recognize, certify, and give full legal support to extra-terrestrial property rights on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

===Econ=== 

**Economic collapse is coming now – qualified institutions agree**
**Sommer 10/8** (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business]]</span>) CJC

LET’S face it: economic forecasting is … they have now, he says.

**Space race for investment is coming now, but legal uncertainty prevents it – plan solves**
**Zell 6** – JD Candidate (2007) @ UMinnesota; BA (2004) from Univ South Dakota (Jeremy, “Putting a Mine on the Moon: Creating an International Authority to Regulate Mining Rights in Outer Space, 15 Minn. J. Int’l L. 489, lexis) Barstow Debate does not condone the use of gendered language in this article.

Today, a twenty-first century space … seen as a science fiction fantasy.

**Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space**
**Reinstein 99** – Associate @ Kirkland & Ellis (Ezra, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59)

Space offers the potential for … for a long time to come.

Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment
Jobes 5 (Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” Space Times, volume: 44, May/June, p. 10)

And what would motivate Congress … will be a space construction boom."

**This independently causes the second Industrial Revolution that expands the economy into multiple new sectors**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW

"The Environment of space … kind of change is needed.

**Economic decline causes global war through diversionary theory**
**Royal 10** – Director of CTR (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215) S. Brock Blomberg is a professor of economics @ Claremont College. Gregory Hess is also a prof of economics @ Claremont.

Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**No impact takeouts—history’s on our side**
**Green and Schrage 9**—associate prof @ Georgetown and senior advisor @ CSIS AND CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office (Michael and Steven, “It's not just the economy,” 3/26/9, Asian Times, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html]]</span>, DA: 11/17/2011//JLENART)

Facing the worst economic crisis … the critical challenges we face.


**Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your disads**
**Griswold 5** (Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, Free Trade, 12.29.5, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282)
Many causes lie behind the … with its own peace dividend.

**Transition away from growth kills millions—we can’t shut the system off**
**Barnhizer 6**—Emeritus Professor @ Cleveland State University’s College of Law (David, “Waking from Sustainability’s ‘Impossible Dream’: The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government, 2006 Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, 18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev 595, lexis)

We face a combination of ecological, … the pattern once again intensifies.

===Colonization=== 

**Extinction is inevitable – seven reasons**
**Popular Science 11** (March, “After Earth: Why? Where? How? When?” p. 46, Vol. 278, No. 3) Barstow Debate does not support the gendered language in this article. Text edited by Joseph Lenart III.
Earth won't always be fit … off the Earth than on it."

**Now is key – multiple extinction events are probable within our lifetime that we cannot stop on Earth**
**Young 3 –** associate technical director at NASA and former astronaut (John, “The Big Picture: Ways to Mitigate or Prevent Very Bad Planet Earth Events,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.johnwyoung.com/main/jyessay.htm]]</span>, DA: 12/20/2011//JLENART)//

Very Big Event Scenarios: Unfortunately … species over the long haul.

**Extinction is inevitable—any further delay in space colonization risks a hundred trillion lives per second**
**Bostrom 3** //–// Department of Philosophy, Yale … .nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]

As I write these words, suns … of colonization of our supercluster.[6]

**Colonization prevents resource conflicts and makes worldwide growth sustainable**
**Garan 10 –** Astronaut (Ron, 3/30/10, Speech published in an article by Nancy Atkinson, “The Importance of Returning to the Moon,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/]]</span>)

Resources and Other Benefits: Since … a sustainable permanent human lunar settlement.

**Resource wars cause extinction**
**Heinberg 3** (Richard,- New College of California, program of Culture, Ecology, and Sustainable Community, 2003 The Party’s Over, p. 251)

In the past 60 years, the … and most of the biosphere.

**Government efforts at colonization fail – only property rights provides the economic incentive necessary for colonization of the Moon and Mars by private entities who are willing to foot the bill**
**Wasser and Jobes 8 –** Chairman of Space Settlement Institute and former CEO of National Space Society AND President of the Space Settlement Institute and has published in the Space Review (Alan and Douglas, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf, DA: 10/4/2011JLENART)

HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on moving … or any other legal violation.

**Colonization is feasible ---**

**a) Plenty of planets with water**
**Kazan 11 –** owner of Galaxy Media LLC and BA from Harvard; writer for the Daily Galaxy (Casey, “Is Colonizing Mars an Imperative? USA's New Space Strategy Says ‘Yes,’” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2010/02/s-colonizing-space-an-imperative-obamas-new-space-strategy-says-yes-lays-groundwork-for-human-space-.html]]</span>, DA: 12/20/2011//JLENART)//

Eventually, Hawking said, humanity should … solar system's neighbourhood, he said.

**b) We have the tech and energy to survive for the long haul – physics isn’t an issue**
**NSS 11** (National Space Society, non-profit space organization, “Space Settlement,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/]]</span>, 5/17/11)
“The people of Earth … lifetimes of those now living.

**c) Mars – it allows for crop development, can develop energy sources, and has key elements for survival – terraforming solves**
**Zubrin 96—**former Chairman of the National Space Society and President of the Mars Society (Robert, “The Case for Colonizing Mars,” Ad Astra Magazine, July/August 1996, http://nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.html)

Among extraterrestrial bodies in our … to grow crops for export.

**d) Artificial gravity overwhelms their microgravity takeouts**
**IAA 9** (International Academy of Aeronautics, non-governmental organization recognized by the UN, founded in 1960 to foster the development of astronautics for peaceful purposes, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%202/sg22/sg22finalreportr.pdf)
To succeed in the near-… appropriate application of artificial gravity.

**e) Sex is possible on Mars**
**The Week 11****—American magazine writing about science and technology (2/17/11, “Why humans will never colonize space,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://theweek.com/article/index/212267/why-humans-will-never-colonize-space]]</span>, DA: 1/5/2012JLENART)

Has anyone had sex in … away from Earth after all.


===Solvency=== 

**The plan would be modeled internationally – empirics**
Alan **Wasser** and Douglas **Jobes**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). **D**ouglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]]</span>, Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **2008** Number 1, pg. 47-52, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]]</span>, JPW
Some experts argue that the … the de facto international standard. 93

**Precedent exists for US action first on property rights**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW
The problems with international methods … agreed-upon international regime." n372


**Their restrictive definition of development is untenable – legal development counts and should frame your understanding of development**
**Sen 2k**** (Amartya Sen, Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy, Nobel Prize-winning economist, What is the Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in the Development Process? Role of Legal and Judicial Reform in Development, World Bank Legal Conference, June 5, 2000)
Before I go on to the … the class of causal connections.

==Westside== 
same aff as MBA

==Heritage Hall== 

**Added to Solvency Contention**

**Gangale votes AFF. Gangale has concluded that there can be private property rights on the moon under existing international law without changing it.**
**Gangale – 9** (Thomas Gangale, same one they are reading; This is written in response to a review of his book The Development of Outer Space: Soveriegnty and Property Rights in International Space Law; “Convenient Untruths From a Space Priest”; 02 SEPTEMBER 2009; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://tgangale1.blogspot.com/2009/09/convenient-untruths-from-space-priest.html]]</span>) CJC
Taylor Dinerman's review of The … codified in the Moon Agreement.

==Harvard== 
**Replaced Sommers (Econ Uniqueness) with**

**Depression is coming now – no growth will occur for three years – this card decimates their takeouts**

**Babones 1/27** (Salvatore Babones is a senior lecturer in sociology and social policy at the University of Sydney and an associate fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies; “Good News and Bad News about GDP Growth”; January 27, 2012; http://www.ips-dc.org/blog/good_news_and_bad_news_about_gdp_growth) CJC


Americans are in for a long, … in for a long, hard slog.

**Replaced Heinberg 3 (Resource Wars Impact)** **with**

**Extinction**

**Heinberg 4** (Richard Heinberg, Professor at The New College of California, writing about energy resources and the dynamics of cultural change for years; Power Down: Option and Actions for a Post-carbon World; 2004; Page 56-57) CJC






=Negative= 

==1NC Cites== 

===T - Space=== 
**1: Increase – To make greater.**
**Merriam Webster – 11** (“Space”; Accessed 3/4/2011; http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/space) CJC
: __to become progressively greater__ (… __size, amount, number, or intensity__)

**2: Exploration – Investigating**
**Dictionary.com – 11** (“exploration”; Accessed 3-4-11; http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/Exploration) CJC
–noun 1. __an act or …__ . 2. the investigation of __unknown regions.__


**3: Development – Development means to become larger by causing something to change this way.**
**Encarta Dictionary – 11** (“development”; Accessed 3/4/2011; [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861604218]]) CJC
2. process of change: __the … to change in this way__

**4: Space –the vacuum that exists //between// planets and stars.**
**Oxford Dictionary – 11** (“Space”; Accessed 3/4/2011; [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/view/entry/m_en_us1292678#m_en_us1292678|http://oxforddictionaries.com/view/entry/m_en_us1292678#m_en_us1292678]]) CJC
(also outer space)__the … amounts of gas and dust.__

===T - Human=== 
**A: Interpretation: Exploration and Development of Space requires a human presence.**

**1: Development is staffed projects**
**Livingston 7** **–** former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/7, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]]</span>) Gender Modified
Eric Westling is a science writer, … [staffed] commercial projects in space.


**2: Exploration can only be defined using human presence**
**Space, Policy, and Society Research Group MIT 8**** ( David A. Mindell (Director) - Scott A. Uebelhart Slava Gerovitch Jeff Hoffman Ephraim Lanford John Logsdon Teasel Muir-Harmony Dava Newman Sherrica Newsome Lawrence McGlynn Rebecca Perry Asif Siddiqi Zakiya A. Tomlinson John Tylko Annalisa L. Weigel Laurence R. Young, The Future of Human Spaceflight, December 2008, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf]]</span>) AC
A primary objective of human … the risk of human life

===T - Increase =/= Missions=== 
**1. Increase means a net increase**
**Rogers 5** (Judge – New York, et al., Petitioners v. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Respondent, NSR Manufacturers Roundtable, et al., Intervenors, 2005 U.S. App. LEXIS 12378, **; 60 ERC (BNA) 1791, 6/24, Lexis)**

**[**48] Statutory Interpretation. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fe428155fdfc9074f3623f0dae9d78a&docnum=14&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=0ebd338d6a7793de8561db53b915effd&focBudTerms=term%20increase&focBudSel=all#clscc16|HN16]]</span>While the … engine was in perfect condition.

**2. Of space means space is the object distinct from in space.**
**Bockstiegel 95** –Ph D., Directitor of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)

The official title of the … considered as ‘use’ of space.

**B. Violation – The plan does not increase exploration or development of space. They only change the mechanism of how current missions are conducted and maintain SQ mission levels.**

===Framework=== 
**A. Interpretation**
**1. The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the USFG is the agent of the resolution, not the individual debaters**
**Webster’s Guide to Grammar and Writing – 2000**
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]</span>
Use of a colon before a list … the colon with a capital letter.

**2. “Resolved” expresses intent to implement the plan**
**American Heritage Dictionary 2000**
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dictionary.com/cgi-bin/dict.pl?term=resolved|www.dictionary.com/cgi-bin/dict.pl?term=resolved]]</span>
To find a solution to; solve …
… bring to a usually successful conclusion

**3. “Should” denotes an expectation of enacting a plan**
**American Heritage Dictionary – 2000** [www.dictionary.com]
3 Used … to express probability or expectation

**4. “The USFG” is the government in Washington D.C.**
**Microsoft Encarta Online Encyclopedia 2000** [http://encarta.msn.com]
“The federal government of … States is centered in Washington DC.”

**5. Our definition excludes action by smaller political groups or individuals.**
**Black’s Law Dictionary** Seventh Edition Ed. Bryan A. Garner (chief) **1999**
Federal government 1. A national government that … participate in national political matters.

**6. Increase means to become bigger or larger in number, quantity, or degree.**
**Encarta World English Dictionary, 7** (“Increase”, 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741]]</span>)
Increase
transitive and intransitive verb (past and past participle in·creased, present participle in·creas·ing, 3rd person present singular in·creas·es)
Definition:
make or become larger or … in number, quantity, or degree


**7 Space exploration must have the goal of expanding human access to space and the discovery of scientific phenomena or commercial utilization opportunities**
**Seboldt 04**- Ph. D. German Aerospace Center (DLR), (Dr. Wolfgang, “PROPOSAL FOR AN INTEGRATED EUROPEAN SPACE EXPLORATION STRATEGY” pg 1-2, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacesailing.net/paper/200410_Vancouver_SeboldtBlomeDachwald+.pdf]]</span>)

What is Space Exploration?
Science and exploration both have … , e.g., philosophical, ethical, and political aspects

**8. Space development means the following**
**Weeks 04** -- E. E. Weeks currently lectures at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff, Arizona in the US, and is writing a dissertation entitled The Politics of Space Law, in a Post Cold War Era. Weeks has published several articles and presented several papers at international conferences. After completing a Juris Doctors degree in Law from the University of Missouri-Columbia in 1987, Weeks worked in a number of laws firms and corporations performing legal research, he is the author of the “Outsiders' Guide to Understanding Outer Space Development” (E. E. Weeks, 2004, www.qpg.com/custom/1066021/powerpoint2.ppt)

Outer space development means different … and communication with extraterrestrial intelligence To

**Violations:**
**1. The affirmative does not instrumentally defend that the United States federal government take an action**
**2. The affirmative does not defend any material space exploration and development.**

**Limits – they allow any affirmative that just plays with the words of the resolution of any other entity. That leads to literally endless affs. This neutralizes the discursive benefits to debate and renders their advocacy meaningless – only our interpretation preserves the revolutionary potential of a deliberative activity**
Ruth Lessl **Shively**, Assoc Prof Polisci at Texas A&M, **2000** Political Theory and Partisan Politics p. 180
'Thus far, I have argued that … who reject civility and democracy.

**Principles of switch side debate especially in applications to space policy and law are critical to educational understanding of the issues – you can read your aff as criticism of most affirmatives (which you do anyways)**
**Sreejith 8** (S.G., Sreejith, M.Phil., LL.D, Associate Fellow at The Northern Institute for Environmental and Minority Law, Research Scientist, Arctic Centre, Member of the Finnish Graduate School Law in a Changing World; “Whither International Law, Thither Space Law: A Discipline in Transition”; California Western International Law Journal; 38 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 331; Spring, 2008; Lexis) CJC
The article serves another purpose … law's defensive mechanism in crisis.

===Heidegger K=== 

**Space exploration and development represents an ontological position that assumes complete mastery over the Earth and transports that ideology into the cosmos, annihilating meaning throughout the universe.**
**Thiele ’95** (Leslie, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, Timely Meditations: Martin Heidegger and Postmodern Politics, pg 201-203)
With everything standing in reserve … freedom lie in the balance.

**We are doomed to complete ontological damnation if we allow calculative mastery over the world to continue. This results in ecological destruction, nuclear war, a complete loss of meaning, the end of thinking, the end of politics and the end of everything.**
**Thiele ’95** (Leslie, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, Timely Meditations: Martin Heidegger and Postmodern Politics, pg 203-204)
The age of planetary mastery, … homelessness. The devastation is complete.

**Our alternative is to reject the Affirmative’s obsessive urgency and action. Letting-the-Earth-be provides the only starting point for challenging the violent and dangerous processes of enframing. (note – this guy calls “enframing” “machination” – same thing)**
**Joronen, 2011** (Mikko, Dept. of Geography, U. of Turku, Finland, “Dwelling in the Sites of Finitude: Resisting the Violence of the Metaphysical Globe,” Antipode, 0(0).)
In order to fulfil these … earth-site(s) of abyssal being.

===Heg Good K=== 

**The aff’s criticism of American policy is dangerous – it contributes to isolationism and the collapse of U.S. primacy**
**Kagan 98** (Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History from American University, “The Benevolent Empire,” Foreign Policy. Summer, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=275)

Those contributing to the growing … the next American humbling.

**Discourse at the high school academic level uniquely key—leftist critique paralyses the US and appeases terrorists**
**Hanson 4** (Victor Davis, Professor of Classical Studies at CSU Fresno, City Journal, Spring, http://www.city-journal.org/html/14_2_the_fruits.html)

Rather than springing from realpolitik, … remedied by deportation or incarceration.

**This type of ivory-tower intellectualism empirically collapses civilizations**
**Hanson 3** (Victor Davis, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Professor Emeritus at California University, Fresno, Ph.D. from Stanford, “We Could Still Lose.” National Review Online. August 11. http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/3050721.html.)

Instead, we have the leisure to engage … even as they pass away.

**Nuclear war.**
**Ferguson 4** (Niall, History Professor at Harvard University, July/August, “A World Without Power,” FOREIGN POLICY Issue 143)
So what is left? Waning empires. … a not-so-new world disorder.

**The alternative is to vote negative to align yourself with and to endorse American hegemony - The only tangible threat to US primacy is isolationism – rhetoric of support is critical to preserving international stability**
**Kristol & Kagan 96** (William Kristol – visiting professor in government at Harvard University and Robert Kagan – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History, “Toward a Neo-Reganite Foreign Policy,” Foreign Affairs. July/August, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=276)
TWENTY YEARS later, it is time once again … military supremacy and moral confidence.

===Property Rights CP=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should give recognition, certification, and full legal support to extra-terrestrial property ownership claims by any private entity based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

====Solves Colonization==== 
**Government efforts at colonization fail – only property rights provides the economic incentive necessary for colonization of the Moon and Mars by private entities who are willing to foot the bill**
**Wasser and Jobes 8 –** Chairman of Space Settlement Institute and former CEO of National Space Society AND President of the Space Settlement Institute and has published in the Space Review (Alan and Douglas, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf, DA: 10/4/2011JLENART)

HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on moving … or any other legal violation.

====Solves Economy==== 
**The Counterplan causes a massive increase in investment leading to a tech boom and the second industrial revolution**
Ty **Twibell**, J.D. Candidate, **1998**, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in 1997, JPW

"The Environment of space … kind of change is needed.



===Russia CP=== 
**CP Text: The Government of the Russian Federation should substantially increase its exploration of near-Earth objects including infrared telescopes and radar beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Russia can solve for any asteroid threat**
**Yury Zaitsev 09**, expert with the Space Research Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, April 23 2009, “Deflecting Asteroids Difficult But Possible”, http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Deflecting_Asteroids_Difficult_But_Possible.html, TJ
Col. Gen. Vladimir Popovkin, commander … lift off in between 2010 and 2015


===USSF CP=== 

**CP Text: The United States federal government should establish a United States Space Force under the Department of Defense to develop and implement military spacepower theories and concepts including (insert plan).**

**Air Force fails – trades off with air power, lacks priorities, lacks professional development. New Space Force solves and ensures better space dominance and terrestrial heg. We solve the aff better.**
**Dinerman – 6** (Taylor Dinerman, founder of Space Equity covering the finance and investing side of space industry, columnist for the Space Review writing on space and defense issues, Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute, consultant for the US Defense Department; “United States Space Force: sooner rather than later”; February 27, 2006; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1]]</span>) CJC
It’s time to admit that … the needs of space operations.


**Space Force can do the AFF and solve better.**
**Dinerman – 6** (Taylor Dinerman, founder of Space Equity covering the finance and investing side of space industry, columnist for the Space Review writing on space and defense issues, Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute, consultant for the US Defense Department; “United States Space Force: sooner rather than later”; February 27, 2006; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1]]</span>) CJC
A new USSF should not … reform part of their platform.

====Solves ORS==== 
**ORS development and implementation by the Air Force ensures failure. Only implementation under a separate Space Force can solve.**
**Remillard – 7** (Lieutenant Colonel Remillard, Air National Guard deputy advisor to Air Force Space Command, Peterson AFB, Colorado, is the author of the mission needs statement for operationally responsive spacelift; “The Long and Winding Road to Operationally Responsive Spacelift”; Air & Space Power Journal21. 1 (Spring 2007): 42-43; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj07/spr07/remillardspr07.html]]</span>) CJC

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">On 15 November 2001, the Air Force … the high ground of space</span>

===Air Power DA=== 

**Space development in the Air Force trades off directly with Air Power development and operations. Space operations are put to the back burner now to deal with Air Force power development.**
**Harter – 6** ( Lt Col Mark Harter is the division chief, Space Control Testing, Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation
Center, Detachment 4, Peterson AFB, Colorado. He has served in a variety of space and missile operations, joint/national operations, testing, and acquisition positions. His operational experience includes serving as the first space warfare officer for Pacific Air Forces at Andersen AFB, Guam; chief, Global Positioning Systems Operations and Tactics, Schriever AFB, Colorado; director of Inter-continental Ballistic Missile Operations, 320th Missile Squadron, F. E. Warren AFB, Wyoming; National Military Command Center operations officer on the National Airborne Operations Center E-4B; and crew commander at the Space Control Center, Cheyenne Mountain AFS, Colorado. He also served assignments at Headquarters Air Force Space Command’s Directorate of Requirements and as an astronautical engineer for the X-30 national aerospace plane at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Colonel Harter is a distinguished graduate of Undergraduate Space Training and Squadron Officer School and a graduate of Space Weapons and Tactics School, Air Command and Staff College, and Air War College.; “Ten Propositions Regarding Space Power: The Dawn of a Space Force”; Air & Space Power Journal20. 2 (Summer 2006): 64-78,126; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/harter.html]]</span>) CJC

US Space Force: No Longer a … efforts (AFSPACE, ARSPACE, and NAVSPACECOM).


**Air Power is critical to prevent every scenario for conflict in Asia. Korea, South China Sea, Taiwan, India and Pakistan, proliferation, chemical and biological warfare)**
**Tellis et al – 98** (Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine; “Sources of Conflict in Asia”; 1998; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]]</span>) CJC
REGIONAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR … the revolution in military affairs.

===Outer Space Treaty DA=== 

**The Outer Space Treaty is currently effective**
**Pindjack 10** (Peter Pindjak, Graduate Scholar- work for the Center for Security Studies, 21 July 2010, “New Prospect for Space Arms Control”, http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Current-Affairs/Security-Watch/Detail/?lng=en&id=118951)
Some arms control critics have … of weapons in outer space.

**LSP violates the OST because of the illegality of land ownership – the main proponent concedes – leads to withdrawal**
**Dinkin**, CEO of SpaceShot and regular contributor to The Space Review, 4/11/**05**, “Rectifying the case for beaming Lunar solar power”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/354/2]]</span>, JPW
Legal challenge I am not optimistic … , they will join the development.

**Their weaponization non-uniques are irrelevant – only the land ownership issue triggers WITHDRAWAL from the treaty which causes the impact**
**Dinkin 4** (Sam, Ph.D. economist, July 12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/179/1 6/23/11) HD
The Outer Space Treaty may … to grow up after all.

**US withdrawal snowballs and causes treaty collapse**
**Hickman and Dolman 2** (John Hickman is an associate professor in the Department of Government and International Studies at Berry College in Mt. Berry, Georgia. He has written many papers dealing with space policy and Everett Dolman, Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 2002 (“Resurrecting the Space Age: A State–Centered Commentary on the Outer Space Regime,” Comparative Strategy: Volume 21, Number 1 (2002), Page 20, Available Online to subscribing institutions at http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/014959302317350855)
Thus a state party need … other celestial bodies might follow.

**OST consultation process dissuades weaponizers and provides transparency – solves the impact to weaponization**
**Marder 8** (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe New Life into Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty,” June 2008, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/ChineseASATtest.pdf)
Finally, the most valuable benefit … a weaponized space is a present threat.

**Impact – weaponizing space prompts Russia and China to put their weapons on hair trigger alert – leads to high risk of nuclear terrorism, accidental war, and unauthorized launch.**
**Lewis, 04** – Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM), Jeffrey, July, 2004, “What if Space Were Weaponized?: Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios”, pg. 22-24, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf, CDI)
The Russians already continue to … China to do the opposite

===Politics=== 

Our politics disad changes frequently. If you want the cites to the most recent one feel free to email me @ the address above. Otherwise here is a list of the Poltics Disads we have read at each tournament

China Bashing - St. Marks (with Rana Aliani)
China Bashing - KCKCC (with Conor McMann)
No Politics at Glenbrooks
Payroll Tax Cuts - Ohio Valley (with Rana Aliani)
Payroll Tax Cuts - MBA (with Joe Lenart)
Payroll Tax Cuts - Westside (with Joe Lenart)
Payroll Tax Cuts - Heritage Hall (with Joe Lenart)
Government Reform - Harvard (with Joe Lenart)
==1NCs== 

===KCKCC=== 

**Round 2 v Kaupan BM (Moon Colonization)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Property%20Rights%20CP|Property Rights CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Outer%20Space%20Treaty%20DA|OST DA]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics]]
Case

**Round 5 v BVW HM (Brilliant Pebbles)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA]]
Case


**Doubles v BVN EJ (LSP)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Property%20Rights%20CP|Property Rights CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Outer%20Space%20Treaty%20DA|OST DA]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics ]](2NR)
Case (2NR)

**Octos v BVW BS (Brilliant Pebbles)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA ]](2NR)
Case

**Quarters v Washburn Rural KS (Asteroids)**

T – Substantial
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Russia%20CP|Russia CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics ]](2NR)
Case

===Glenbrooks=== 


**Round 1 v East Kentwood (Poverty SPS)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
LSP PIC (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Outer%20Space%20Treaty%20DA|OST DA]] (2NR)
Case

**Round 4 v Cherry Creek GK (Space Militarization)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA]] (2NR
Case

**Round 5 v Meadows NR (ORS)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA]] (2NR)
Case

===MBA=== 

**Round 2 v River Hill CG (Marine Domain Awareness)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA]]
DeDev
Case

**Round 3 v Bronx Science BK (ORS)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA]]
Case

**Round 6 v Woodward SS (Nuclear Waste Disposal)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Property%20Rights%20CP|Property Rights CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics ]](2NR)
Case (2NR)

===Westside=== 

**Round 1 v Freemont VM (China Coop)**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Human|T - Human]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics]]
Case

**Round 4 v Sioux Falls Lincoln YJ (Shuttles)**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Increase%20=/=%20Missions|T - Increase]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics]]
Case (2NR)

**Round 5 v Sioux Falls Lincoln EP (Shuttles)**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Increase%20=/=%20Missions|T - Increase]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics]]
Case (2NR)

===Heritage Hall=== 
**Round 2 v SME UT (LSP and He3)**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T - Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Property%20Rights%20CP|Property Rights CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Outer%20Space%20Treaty%20DA|OST DA]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics]] (2NR)
Case (2NR)

**Round 3 v Fayetteville DR (Common Heritage)**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Human|T - Human]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heg%20Good%20K|Heg Good K]]
UN CP
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Poltics]]
Case

**Round 5 v Westside WF (Broken Burroughs Adding Machine)**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Framework|Framework (2NR)]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heg%20Good%20K|Heg Good K]]
Case

**Semis v Pembroke LV (Heidegger)**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Framework|Framework (2NR)]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heg%20Good%20K|Heg Good K]]
Case

**Finals v SME CH (Ballistic Missile Defense)**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Human|T - Human]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger K]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA]]
Case

===Harvard=== 

**Round 1 v Bronx Science BK (ORS)**

[[2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Poltics]]
[[2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP ]](2NR)
[[2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA]] (2NR)
Case

**Round 4 v Bishop Guertin MF (Moon Base)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]] (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Property%20Rights%20CP|Property Rights CP]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics ]]
Case

**Round 5 v Hendrickson BS (SBSP)**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Heidegger%20K|Heidegger]]
LSP PIC (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Outer%20Space%20Treaty%20DA|OST DA]] (2NR)
Case

**Round 7 v River Hill HL**

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-T%20-%20Space|T – Space]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-USSF%20CP|USSF CP]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Air%20Power%20DA|Air Power DA]]
Uniqueness Counterplan (2NR)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Barstow (MO) - Aidan Coyle & Joseph Lenart III#Negative-1NC%20Cites-Politics|Politics]] (2NR)
Case (2NR)
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">
<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">Depression is coming now – no … – this card decimates their takeouts
Babones 1/27 (Salvatore Babones is a senior lecturer in sociology and social policy at the University of Sydney and an associate fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies; “Good News and Bad News about GDP Growth”; January 27, 2012; http://www.ips-dc.org/blog/good_news_and_bad_news_about_gdp_growth) CJC


Americans are in for a long, … in for a long, hard slog.</span>
</span>