[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Avatar Aff Churchill 1ac (updated)== 
**The presentation of a culture intrinsically linked to nature in a state of harmonious being in the movie Avatar creates a desire to become one with nature, recreating ideas of omnipotence and control.** 
Sarah **Coghlan, 2010**. Master of Visual Arts at the University of South Australia. “Forgotten Eden” - AD
An example of … Eve and the Garden of Eden.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Plan: the United States federal government should go to Pandora. </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Instead of attempting to become one with nature, we should acknowledge the life force inside of us all. We cannot become one with avatar, we cannot become one with nature, but we can acknowledge that every object has value. </span>**</span>
Donna **Haraway**, The Promises of Monsters: A Regenerative Politics for Inappropriate/d Others **1992**)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Since we have spent so much… transnational technoscience studies as cultural studies.</span>

**Affirming the other is good, dawg. We don’t care what you say.**

Lawrence **Grossberg**, Cary Nelson, Paula A. Treichler, eds., Cultural Studies (New York; Routledge, **1992**) , pp. 295-337.

<span style="font-family: 'Times','serif';">Nature is for me, and I venture for many of us who are planetary fetuses gestating in the amniotic … __semiotic space called earth.__</span>



==Avatar Aff UT 1ac== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">When I was younger, I wanted to be a cowboy. As I’ve grown, I’ve wanted to be many things. President, lawyer, physicist, cowboy, astronaut. The only one where limits do not exist is the astronaut. The possibilities were to be endless. I could have the world at my fingertip! I was not alone. Millions of pieces of literature about space exist, each giving a new perspective on the unknown. Unfortunately, there is a trend towards using space as a tool for expansion of the military and culmination of humanity, leaving hope of celebration of difference at the launch pad, as DeWitt Kilgore explains: [1]</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Popular narratives that rely on the reflected glory of military adventure</span>... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">It is through this kind of imaginative work that we develop the tools we need to change the future.</span>


**Perhaps the most well-known example of astrofuturisms is in the movie Avatar. For insight on the thought process of many while viewing the movie, Ryan Croken states: [2] [START PRESENTATION]**
__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">You enter the theater, Avatar begins, and you are catapulted</span>__... __your spirit whispers to you____, but there is no garden, it appears, to get back to, and, what’s worse, it’s all your fault.__

**But what happens when we can’t explain those emotions? Why does going to a movie make an entire species feel guilt? Guilty of what? Or is it guilt at all? It appears that only the mother knows, but she is gone. The images and messages in Avatar encourage viewers to take a stance of mastery over an other, even if the other is not known. It forces us to love ourselves and feel power over others because of it. Because we can never truly become one with the other, humanity is locked into a cycle of domination and mastery that prevents ontological valuation, as Stephen Norton explains: [3]**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">While a fundamental sense of lack is the state of Avatar's protagonist... Thus, the plot of Avatar functions as the latest reiteration of a myth of totality which attempts to remedy this lack with its symbolic ointment; a closer look at Avatar reveals a poison in the salve.</span>


**This desire for unity is a recipe for //disaster//. Every historical attempt to create harmony has ended in devastating genocide and destruction across all boundaries of identity. Instead of attempting to overcome the system, we must come to terms with it and acknowledge the impossibility of perfection, as Slavoj Zizek explains: [4]**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Psychoanalytic 'essentialism' is paradoxical in so far as it is precisely psychoanalysis</span>... <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">totalitarian terrorism — only afterwards can the state limit its disastrous effects.</span>


**The question is, how do we stop it?**

**Join us in an inquiry into the psychological underpinnings of why we want to ride horses on Pandora. The experience of being confronted with the underside and the horrors behind the spectacles in Avatar force a confrontation with the mirror stage and allow for the celebration of culture and difference. Contemporary society is founded upon dictating how something is to be understood. Instead, we allow for people to learn how to look. Instead of looking at Pandora and seeing unobtanium and profit, there is an appreciation for beauty, respect for the Na’vi culture, and no human presence. This is peace. Mayra Gomes explains: [5]**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">However, __in Avatar__, in the game between 3D, movie, heroic saga</span>... __<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Through identification, a utopia of identity lives in the mirror, although the inflexion of disparate elements.</span>__

**Call us crazy, but you’re just shocked. You don’t want to hear things that go against what you think is right. Hint hint: that’s a formula for getting nothing done. ONLY through endorsing a non-hegemonic idea can we allow for practical change to occur. It is insanity to repeat the same action and expect a different outcome. Slavoj Zizek explains:[6]**
__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A short circuit occurs when there is a faulty connection</span>__... __aware of another—disturbing—side of something__ __he or she knew all the time.__



Footnotes:
<span class="Underline">[1]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> De Witt Douglas **Kilgore,** 20**03** Professor of English at Indiana University, Astrofuturism: Science, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space </span>
<span class="Underline">[2]</span> **Ryan Croken, 2010.** Freelance writer in Chicago, published multiple times in Philadelphia Inquirer. “No Garden to Get Back to: Understanding Post-Avatar Ecological Depressive Disorder”
[3]<span class="Underline"> Stephen D. **Norton,** May **2011**. Master of Arts @ University of Wyoming “AUTOCHTHONS AND EXTRA-TERRESTTRIALS: A POSTCOLONIAL, POSTSTRUCTURALIST, PSYCHOANALYTIC EXAMINATION OF THE SELF AND OTHER IN THREE TEXTS”</span>
<span class="Underline">[4] </span>Slavoj **Zizek, 1989**. No Quals. “The Sublime Object of Ideology”
<span class="Underline">[5]</span> Mayra Rodrigues **Gomes, 2010**. Professor with tenure at the University of Sao Paulo. “Avatar: Between Utopia and Heterotopia”
<span class="Underline">[6]</span> Slavoj **Zizek,** 20**03**. No quals. “Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two.”












==Avatar Aff St Marx Redux== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Since the dawn of time the concept of space has been infested with false notions of imperial conquest and exclusion that serve to further interests of elites while ignoring the potential that each new representation has to be a liberating feature for life, with each new astrofuturism leading to a new cycle of violence. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">De Witt Douglas **Kilgore, 2003** Professor of English at Indiana University, Astorfuturism: Science, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-decoration: none;">Popular narratives that rely … need to change the future.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">In 2009 the movie ‘Avatar’ depicted an astrofuturism that was conveyed to the largest audience in the history of cinema. The depiction of a utopian planet in Pandora let imagination go WILD, but upon the conclusion of the epic, its presentation was a bit too powerful for some, leading to despair among many, with some wishing to kill themselves off in hope of attaining the Dream.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">CNN 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">. The guy who owns it created public forum, lol. “Audiences experience 'Avatar' blues” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">James Cameron's … want to escape reality.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This negativity and depression is not experienced by a few ‘psychotic’ individuals, it is part of a larger societal symptom of cosmic narcissism. The culture of aggressive domination and conquest that characterized Victorian rule has been rekindled in the space frontier, necessitating competition through war and exploitation of the cosmos with the ultimate goal of omnipotence over the universe. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Mark **Bracher,** 19**94**. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH AND ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR LITERATURE AND PSYCHOANALYSIS AT KENT STATE UNIVERSITY, “ON THE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND SOCIAL FUNCTIONS OF LANGUAGE: LACAN'S THEORY OF THE FOUR DISCOURSES,” LACANIAN THEORY OF DISCOURSE SUBJECT, STRUCTURE, AND SOCIETY</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">From the beginning, … for its own survival.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">However, there must be something more. WHAT is it in Avatar that we find to be desirable, what MAKES us want to kill ourselves? It is the presentation of a culture intrinsically linked to nature in a state of harmonious being that sparks a desire to recreate and master the world as such. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Sarah **Coghlan, 2010**. Master of Visual Arts at the University of South Australia. “Forgotten Eden”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">An example of computer generated … alien version of the story of Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This death drive towards a state of harmony with ecology is ingrained in our biology. No utopia has ever been actualized and all attempts to create one know no limits, killing and destroying any antagonism to the wholeness of the ego.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Slavoj **Zizek, 1989**. No Quals. “The Sublime Object of Ideology”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Psychoanalytic 'essentialism' is paradoxical in so far as it is … afterwards can the state limit its disastrous effects.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Utopianism cannot function without scapegoating. Scapegoating produces an antagonism and an impediment to utopia. The destruction of this antagonism is deemed justified and necessary for fulfillment of the utopian promise, justifying all violence on an ontic level. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Yannis **Stavrakakis, 1999**. Department of Government at University of Essex. “Lacan and the Political”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">In order to answer these … can the state limit its disastrous effects.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Plan: the United States Department of the Interior should send a space boat to Pandora.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Emily and I ask you to join us on an adventure in which we can envision a journey to a place like Earth, although a little bit nicer and everyone can plug into nature and ride sweet horses. The landscape is impeccable: floating mountains and new species of plants that we have never seen. The 1ac uses Pandora as a metaphor because of its presented ability to destroy contemporary perceptions of reality, leading us to question how our civilization has commodified and destroyed nature, especially in the context of the future for space. Pandora is a mirror of the Earth, and our aff exposes the disavowed truth of our relationship to the space around us. This is the foundation of a heterotopia – a space in which otherness can expose every real space and every site of human life is partitioned but not eliminated. Our aff exposes the underside of the reasons behind why we drive to go to space. This is the only way we can produce a mindset that allows for space that does not rest upon imperial justifications.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Mayra Rodrigues **Gomes, 2010**. Professor with tenure at the University of Sao Paulo. “Avatar: Between Utopia and Heterotopia”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">However, in Avatar, in the game between … , although the inflexion of disparate elements.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Introducing a non-contemporary notion of space is effective as a short circuiting apparatus that reshapes the societal paradigm regarding exploration.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Slavoj **Zizek,** 20**03**. No quals. “Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A short circuit occurs when … he or she knew all the time.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Movies present a representation of our society and allows us to view images as deconstructions of subjectivity. Examining avatar is critical to reorganizing our special temporal understanding. The world of Pandora disrupts our imagination. It pits the aggressive corporation against the primitive mother nature in a battle for relational state. The aff is critical to open new channels for true exploration.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Mayra Rodrigues **Gomes, 2010**. Professor with tenure at the University of Sao Paulo. “Avatar: Between Utopia and Heterotopia”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">At first, the heterotopias are constant properties of all and … perhaps assembles opposite rhythms.</span>




==Avatar Affirmative - Greenhill Rd 1== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Status quo narratives of space exploration are rooted in false notions of imperial domination and exclusion. Each new representation of space in everyday life has the potential to be a liberating feature, but these notions are still often rooted in conquest.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">De Witt Douglas Kilgore, 2003 Professor of English at Indiana University, Astorfuturism: Science, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Popular narratives that rely on … we need to change the future</span>

**In 2009 the movie ‘Avatar’ opened at theaters and became the most viewed movie in history. The depiction of a utopian planet Pandora tapped into the imagination of viewers everywhere, but when it was over, negativity took over, culminating in some viewers desiring-death.**
**CNN 2010**. The guy who owns it created public forum, lol. “Audiences experience 'Avatar' blues” [AD]
James Cameron's completely … __desperately want to escape reality.__

**This negativity and depression is not experienced by a few ‘psychotic’ individuals, it is part of a larger societal symptom of cosmic narcissism. The culture of aggressive domination and conquest that characterized Victorian rule has been rekindled in the space frontier, necessitating competition through war and exploitation of the cosmos with the ultimate goal of omnipotence over the universe.**
Mark **Bracher,** 19**94**. <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH AND ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR LITERATURE AND PSYCHOANALYSIS AT KENT STATE UNIVERSITY, “ON THE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND SOCIAL FUNCTIONS OF LANGUAGE: LACAN'S THEORY OF THE FOUR DISCOURSES,” LACANIAN THEORY OF DISCOURSE SUBJECT, STRUCTURE, AND SOCIETY</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">From the beginning, Lacan had asserted that </span>__…. for its own__**__survival__**__.__

**The scene of a state of harmonious being,**
Sarah **Coghlan, 2010**. Master of Visual Arts at the University of South Australia. “Forgotten Eden” [AD]
An example of computer generated …__and Eve and the Garden of Eden.__



**Understanding the death drive in all of us is the only way to fight violent tendencies that are created from the imagination of utopias. The death drive securitization of subjectivity knows no limits it will kill and destroy any antagonism to ego wholeness.**

Slavoj **Zizek, 1989**. No Quals. “The Sublime Object of Ideology”
Psychoanalytic 'essentialism' is paradoxical in so … state limit its disastrous effects.


**Utopianism cannot function without scapegoating. Scapegoating produces an antagonism an impediment utopia. The destruction of this antagonism is justified and necessary for fulfillment of the utopian promise. Utopian fantasies have led to the worst atrocities in human history and justify all violence on an ontic level.**
Yannis **Stavrakakis, 1999**. Department of Government at University of Essex. “Lacan and the Political”
<span style="font-size: 8px;">In order to answer these questions it is …</span> limit its disastrous effects.

**Plan: the United States federal government should send a space boat to Pandora.**

**Emily and I ask you to join us on a quest where we can envision a journey to a place that is like Earth, only a little bit nicer everyone plugs into nature and rides sweet horses. The landscape is beautiful: floating mountains and plants that we have never seen. The 1ac uses Pandora as metaphor because of its ability to destroy peoples perceptions of reality, the images of the beauty in Pandora lead people to question how our civilization has commodified and destroyed nature. <span class="commentbody">Pandora is the mirror of Earth, it exposes the disavowed truth of our relationship to the space around us. This is the foundation for a heterotopia- heterotopic spaces create a space for otherness, t</span>heir role is to create a space of illusion that exposes every real space, all the sites inside of which human life is partitioned. The brothel is a perfect example, inside sex acts take place, hidden behind the screen of the building no questions are asked it is a space that defies the logic of our morality it exposes the underside of our society. Our aff wishes to expose the underside of the reasons why we decide to space. Emily and I believe this is the only way we can produce a mindset in our society that allows for space travel that does not bear in mind imperial justifications only by forcing people to confront the real of our understanding of space.**
Mayra Rodrigues **Gomes, 2010**. Professor with tenure at the University of Sao Paulo. “Avatar: Between Utopia and Heterotopia” [AD]
However, __in Avatar__, in the … __inflexion of disparate elements.__

**The shock of understanding the mirror is critical to undermining hegemonic ideology.**
Slavoj **Zizek,** 20**03**. No quals. “Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two.” [AD]
__A short circuit occurs … side of something he or she knew all the time.__


**Movies are heterotopias they present a representation of our society and allow us to view the images as deconstructions of our subjectivity examining avatar is critical to fundamentally reorganizing our spacial temporal understanding. The world of Pandora disrupts our imaginary it pits the aggressive corporation against the primitive mother nature in a battle for relational space. only by understanding this struggle can we see how it is a reflection of man kinds inner battle to actualize it causes us to confront our imaginary understanding of space and open new channels for true explorations**

Mayra Rodrigues **Gomes, 2010**. Professor with tenure at the University of Sao Paulo. “Avatar: Between Utopia and Heterotopia” [AD]
At first, the heterotopias are constant … perhaps assembles opposite rhythms.

==2ac T== 

==2ac arguments without internal links (disads, counterplans, etc.)== 

==2ac Kritiks==