[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
***1AC***

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 18.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Observation 1—Inherency</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Status-quo programs are insufficient and expanding NEO survey capacity is the key to discovering asteroids as directed by Congress—</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">National Research Council 2010</span>
[ “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” page 41] LMC

Congress has established for NASA two mandates addressing near-Earth object (NEO) detection. <span class="underline">The first</span>mandate, now known as the Spaceguard Survey, <span class="underline">directed the agency to detect 90 percent of near-Earth objects1 kilometer in diameter or greater by 2008</span>.By 2009, the agency was close to meeting that goal. Although the estimate of this population is continually revised, as astronomers gather additional data about all NEOs (and asteroids and comets in general), these revisions are expected to remain. The 2009 discovery of asteroid 2009 HC82, a 2- to 3-kilometer-diameter NEOin a retrograde (“backwards”) orbit, is, however, a reminder that some NEOs 1 kilometer or greater in diameter remain undetected. <span class="underline">The second mandate</span>, the George E. Brown, Jr. Near-Earth Object Survey section of the NASA Authorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-155), directed that NASA detect 90 percent of near-Earth objects 140 meters in diameter or greater by 2020. However, what the surveys actually focus on is not all NEOs but the potentially hazardous NEOs. It is possible for an NEO to come close to Earth but never to intersect Earth’s orbit and therefore not be potentially hazardous. The surveys are primarily interested in the potentially hazardous NEOs, and that is the population that is the focus of this chapter. Significant new equipment (i.e., ground-based and/or space-based telescopes) will be required to achieve the latter mandate.<span class="underline">The administration did not budget and Congress did not approve new funding for NASA to achieve this goal, and little progress on reaching it has been made during the past 5 years</span>.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan: The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Increase Its Exploration and or Development of Space Beyond the Earth’s Mesosphere by placing an appropriate infrared telescope into a Venus-like orbit to survey near earth objects.</span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 18.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Observation 2—Solvency</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Planetary Defense is an “Orphan” that no one has adopted—the USFG must act</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Friend, 2011</span> [The New Yorker Vermin of the Sky; Who will keep the planet safe from asteroids? February 28, 2011; Tad Friend <span style="color: #000000;">Tad Friend is a graduate of </span>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shipley_School|The Shipley School]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_College|Harvard College]]; Pg. 22 Vol. 87 No. 2] LMC
The administrator of NASA, Charlie Bolden, recently declared that deflecting a NEO will be "what keeps the dinosaurs<span class="underline">-</span>we are the dinosaurs, by the way-from becoming extinct a second time." Then he admitted that the agency couldn't afford to do that. The annual federal allocation for "planetary defense" is $5.8 million-.03 per cent of NASA's budget-which supports a shoestring program to find NEOs and track their orbits. In truth, NASA doesn't really want the job of global savior, and no one else does, either. "With<span class="underline"> planetary defense,</span>there's a complex interaction of science, psychology, politics, and money-and everything falls into a gap between disciplines," Robert Arentz, who heads the NEOs team at Ball Aerospace and Technologies Corp., said. "The science guys say, 'NEOs are not scientifically interesting, and saving the planet<span class="underline"> i</span>snot our job,' and the military guys say, 'We'll blow them up, but we don't have anything to do with telescopes or space missions.' The issue'san orphan."



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, unambiguous US leadership is essential on planetary defense—otherwise there is increased risk of global destruction</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dinerman 2009</span> (Taylor, journalist for the Space Review “The new politics of planetary defense,” The Space Review, 7-20, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1]])

While __the US is obviously going to have to take the lead in any effort to detect and possibly deflect any celestial object that might do our planet harm__, it will have to consult with others, both to keep other nations informed and to help make the choices needed to deal with the threat. Yet <span class="underline">in the end</span>, it is likely that the decision, if there is one, will rest with the President of the United States. He or she is the only world leader today with the wherewithal to deal with such a threat. This is why <span class="underline">any planning effort that leans too heavily on international institutions may endanger the whole planet</span>__. <span class="underline">The process</span>__ inside an organization like the UN would simply __<span class="underline">get bogged down in procedural and political questions</span>__. <span class="underline">US leaders may find that the system would be paralyzed while, for example, nations argued over deflection or destructions methods or who would control and pay for them. Precious time would be lost while nations would consider their own best interests in supporting one approach or another</span>__. <span class="underline">If the US is have any claim to global leadership in the 21st century it will have to unambiguously take the lead in planetary defense</span>__<span class="underline">. </span>It should do so in an open way and be ready to listen to everyone’s concerns and ideas. But __if the Earth is to be effectively protected, the ultimate decisions will have to be American<span class="underline">. </span>__In this case“global governance” could end up setting the stage for a disaster.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Early detection allows use of Kinetic impactors, and the earlier detection occurs, the less likely any nuclear devices would be required </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">National Research Council 2010</span>
[ “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” Chapter 7 Mitigation] LMC
Finding: Kinetic impactors are adequate to prevent impacts on Earth by moderate-sized NEOs (many hundreds of meters to 1 kilometer in diameter) with decades of advance warning. The concept has been demonstrated in space, but the result is sensitive to the properties of the NEO and requires further study**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">.</span>**
Nuclear explosivesconstitute a mature technology, with well-characterized outputs. They represent by far the most mass-efficient method of energy transport and should be considered as an option for NEO mitigation. Nuclear explosivesprovide the only option for large NEOs<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;"> (>500 meters in diameter) </span>when the time to impact is short (years to months), or when other methods have failed and time is running ou<span class="underline">t</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">. </span>The extensive test history of nuclear explosives demonstrates a proven ability to provide a tailored output (the desired mixture of x rays, neutrons, or gamma rays) and dependable yields from about 100 tons to many megatons of TNT-equivalent energy (see [[http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12842&page=128#p2001b3639970128001|Appendix E]]). Coupled with this test history is an abundance of data on the effects of surface and subsurface blasts, including shock generation and cratering.

**Kinetic Impactors Would Work**
**Wall 11/7/11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A huge asteroid's close approach to Earth tomorrow (Nov. 8) reinforces that we live in a cosmic shooting gallery, and </span>we can't just sit around waiting to get hit again<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, experts say.[[http://www.space.com/13474-asteroid-2005yu55-close-approach-earth-faq.html|Asteroid 2005 YU55]], which is the size of an aircraft carrier, will zip within the moon's orbit tomorrow, but it poses no danger of hitting us for the foreseeable future.</span>Eventually<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, however, </span>one<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of its big space</span>rock<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">cousins </span>will barrel straight towards Earth, as asteroids have done millions of times throughout our planet's history.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If we want to avoid going the way of the dinosaurs, which were [[http://www.space.com/13008-dinosaur-killing-asteroid-mystery-nasa.html|wiped out by an asteroid strike]] 65 million years ago,</span>we're going to have to deflect a killer space rock someday,<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">researchers say. </span>Fortunately, we know how to do it."We have the capability — physically, technically — to protect the Earth from asteroid impacts,"<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">said former astronaut Rusty Schweickart, chairman of the B612 Foundation, a group dedicated to predicting and preventing catastrophic asteroid strikes.</span> "We are now able to very slightly and subtly reshape the solar system in order to enhance human survival."<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If researchers detect a potentially dangerous space rock in plenty of time, an option may be to send a robotic probe out to rendezvous and ride along with it.The spacecraft's modest gravity would exert a tug on the asteroid as the two cruise through space together. Over months or years, this "gravity tractor" method would pull the asteroid into a different, more benign orbit."You can get a very precise change in the orbit for the final part of the deflection using a technology of this kind," Schweickart said in late September, during a presentation at Caltech in Pasadena, Calif., called "Moving an Asteroid." Humanity has already demonstrated the know-how to pull off such a mission. Multiple probes have met up with faraway asteroids in deep space, including [[http://www.space.com/11540-photos-asteroid-vesta-nasa-dawn.html|NASA's Dawn spacecraft]], which is currently orbiting the huge space rock Vesta.And in 2005, the [[http://www.space.com/77-asteroid-explorer-hayabusa-how-japan-s-asteroid-mission-worked.html|Japanese Hayabusa probe]] even plucked some pieces off the asteroid Itokawa, sending them back to Earth for analysis.Smash 'em up. We could also be more aggressive with our asteroid rendezvous craft, relying on brute force rather than a gentle gravitational tug. That is, we could simply slam a robotic probe into the threatening space rock to change its orbit. We know how to do this, too. In 2005, for example, NASA sent an impactor barreling into the [[http://www.space.com/10814-comet-tempel-1-photos-nasa-spacecraft.html|comet Tempel 1]] to determine the icy object's composition.The impactor approach would not be as precise as the gravity tractor technique, Schweickart said, but it could still do the job.There's also the possibility of blowing the asteroid to smithereens [[http://www.space.com/10489-nuke-asteroid-idea-revived-protect-earth.html|with a nuclear weapon]]. The nuclear option could come into play if the dangerous space rock is too big to knock around with a kinetic impactor, but it would likely be a weapon of last resort.For one thing, blasting an asteroid to bits might end up doing more harm than good, said fellow presentation panelist Bill Nye, executive director of the Planetary Society."Momentum is conserved," Nye said. "If you blow it up, then the whole giant spray of rocks is coming at the Earth instead of one."The politics involved in mobilizing use of a nuke could also be a cause for concern, Schweickart said. It will likely be hard enough to convince the world to [[http://www.space.com/13164-killer-asteroids-deflection-humanity-cooperation.html|mount any sort of asteroid-deflection mission]] in time, and adding nuclear missiles to the equation would make things much stickier."The potential use of nuclear explosives for deflection cannot currently be ruled out," Schweickart said. "But it is an extremely low probability that they will be needed."'Mirror bees' and foil wrap. While we're pretty sure that</span>gravity tractors and kinetic impactor probes would work.



<span style="font-size: 16px;">Post Plan, NASA has the ability to solve for Planetary Defense</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA Advisory Council in 2010</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> [“</span>Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6,http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf] LMC
NASA has developed a strong foundation for understanding the NEO hazard and building a long-term capability to counter a potential asteroid impact threat. By taking the steps recommended in this report, the agency can expand this expertise and lead global efforts to develop an effective capability for Planetary Defense. Society now possesses sufficiently mature space technology to provide two of the three elements necessary to prevent future damaging asteroid impacts. NASA currently searches for the largest objects of concern and issues warning information for any asteroid discovered to approach Earth. New ground- and space-based search systems can increase our capability to provide impact warning for the smaller, more numerous asteroids. Although NASA has not demonstrated a specific asteroid deflection capability, the agency’s current spaceflight technology shows that impact prevention is possible. Actual NEO deflection demonstrations are being studied and are excellent candidates to be part of future NEO science and technology missions. The missing third element for NEO impact prevention is the international community’s readiness and determination to respond to a predicted future asteroid collision with Earth. NASA is well positioned to take a leading role in this government and international response, <span class="underline">but</span> to be ready, the agency must move well beyond search, analysis, and warning to develop the practical means for actually changing a threatening asteroid’s orbit. Without the ability to detect the most numerous asteroids, to alter NEO orbits, and to lead a global effort to plan a deflection campaign, the only possible U.S. response would be evacuation and disaster response. If NASA fails to prepare for Planetary Defense, and then a sizeable random NEO strikes Earth without warning, the damage to the U.S.’s leadership and reputation would swell the tally of the event’s devastating effects. NASA should begin work now on forging its warning, technology, and leadership capacities into a global example of how to effectively shield society from a future impact.



<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 18.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Advantage 1—Deflection</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Only space-based detection enables deflection—modeling and studies prove the plan is key to global survival </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">American Institute of Physics in 2010</span>
[ Robert Arentz, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, [[http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]]] LMC

The key to mitigation is discovery. And the fastest possible method for finding NEOs is to look for them in the thermal-infrared band from ~6 to ~11 microns with a telescope having an aperture of 50 centimeters that is located in a Venus-like orbit <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">with a semi-major axis of about 0.7-AU. Such a system is presented in this paper and is based on experience gained from two very relevant, deep-space missions: the infrared Spitzer Space Telescope and the large-aperture Kepler mission. Both systems are currently operating and exceeding specifications in deep space. Because the design presented herein is closely based on these two flight systems, the mission described in this paper has a robust cost estimate due to the use of actual final costs for nearly identical systems. Every aspect of this design is a lowering of complexity compared to its flight-heritage program element. A detailed computer model of the flight system and the NEO search process was created by Ball Aerospace to guide the development of this observatory. The main details of this model are included below. The Ball model has been compared against a similar model built for the same purpose by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) circa 2003, as 419well as to another similar model developed by the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) for its own purposes. (LSST is not yet in any funding queue, and if built would take perhaps 15 to 30 years after first light to complete the GEB-level mission). Recently, the integrated Ball model, which evaluates only flight systems, has been uploaded into the groundbased-only LSST model, thus providing the community with an improved model that can compare any mission design in any orbit in any passband. The Ball-LSST model has been compared (as separate elements) against the JPL model using test objects, and then with simulated missions, and all three models converge on the same results. All of </span>this <span class="underline">modeling supports</span> the 2003 Science Definition Team’s (SDT) conclusion that a half-meter, infrared system operating in a Venus-like orbit, by itself, will find 90 percent of all the greater than 140 meter diameter NEOs in just over seven years. While doing so, it will also find about 70 percent of all the greater than 100 meter diameter NEOs and about 50 percent of all the greater then 50 meter diameter NEOs. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Adding a groundbased visible light telescope such as Pan-STARRS1 to this spacebased infrared mission reduces the time-to-90% completion from a little over seven years to a little over five years. It is especially relevant that </span>deep-space-based infrared is the only approach that will meet the performance levels stated above <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">regarding the smaller NEOs, </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and is the only design that finds them in such numbers at such a high rate</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Note well that these smaller NEOs constitute Boslough’s (2009) newly discovered threat régime. If, as moral societies wishing to mitigate the threat of a large-scale loss of human life, unforeseen economic disruption and massive physical infrastructure damage, coupled to the unpredictable reaction of societies to such a trauma, we look at the NEO situation from this new perspective, then for the first time in human history NASA and its industrial base (or ESA and its technical base) have the unprecedented chance, for close to $600M, to deterministically answer the question: are we safe for the next 100 years? If we are, then we, as a population, will have at least attained an extensive data set regarding NEOs for future use. If we are not, then any mission like the one described herein becomes the first vital link for preventing a natural disaster of this scale—the only kind of natural disaster of this scale which humans can prevent, at least in principle. Stated </span>another way, with enough warning time, humans can move an impact off the Earth, thus mitigating a global, life-altering threat. But like treating cancer, the key to survival is early discovery. A mission such as this one represents the fastest possible means to discover, initially track, and then successfully mitigate the threat. This is no longer an arcane scientific discussion—this is now a matter of doing something relatively small and affordable that can act as an insurance policy for everyone on Earth, or in the safest outcome will yield a very large data set about NEOs for future work



<span style="font-size: 16px;">And, Ground Based telescopes alone can’t solve for the greatest threat to humanity</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">National Research Council in 2010</span>
[ “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” page 41-42] LMC
Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing NEOs coming toward Earth from near the Sun’s direction because their close proximity to the Sun—as viewed from Earth—causes sunlight scattered by Earth’s atmosphere to be a problem and also poses risks to the telescopes when they point toward these directions. Objects remaining in those directions have orbits largely interior to Earth’s; the understanding of their number is as yet very uncertain. <span class="underline">In addition, there are objects that remain too far from Earth to be detected almost all of the time. The latter include Earth-approaching comets</span> (comets with orbits that approach the Sun at distances less than 1.3 astronomical units [AU] and have periods less than 200 years), of which 151 are currently known. These represent a class of objects probably doomed to be perpetually only partly known, as they are not likely to be detected in advance of a close Earth encounter. <span class="underline">These objects</span>, after the completion of exhaustive searches for NEOs, could dominate the impact threat to humanity. Thus, assessing the completeness of the NEO surveys is subject to uncertainties: Some groups of NEOs are particularly difficult to detect. Asteroids and comets are continually lost from the NEO population because they impact the Sun or a planet, or because they are ejected from the solar system. Some asteroids have collisions that change their sizes or orbits. New objects are introduced into the NEO population from more distant reservoirs over hundreds of thousands to millions of years. The undiscovered NEOs could include large objects like 2009 HC82 as well as objects that will be discovered only months or less before Earth impact(“imminent impactors”).Hence, even though 85 percent of NEOs larger than 1 kilometer in diameter might already have been discovered, and eventually more than 90 percent of NEOs larger than 140 meters in diameter will be discovered, NEO surveys should nevertheless continue, because objects not yet discovered pose a statistical risk: Humanity must be constantly vigilant. Finding: Despite progress toward or completion of any survey of near-Earth objects, it is impossible to identify all of these objects because objects’ orbits can change, for example due to collisions. Recommendation: Once a near-Earth object survey has reached its mandated goal, the search for NEOs should not stop. Searching should continue to identify as many of the remaining objects and objects newly injected into the NEO population as possible, especially imminent impactors.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">NEO’s Are the Single Greatest Risk To Life on Earth</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Indo-Asian News Service June 30, 2011[ ThursdayAsteroid hit will be catastrophic for India, US, China lexis-nexis]LMC </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">London, June. 30 -- </span>If an asteroid hits India, US or China, these countries will suffer a catastrophic loss of lives and be crippled beyond the possibility of any recovery, scientists have said. 
<span class="underline">Countries that will be worst affected in the event of a strike also include Indonesia, Japan, the Philippines, Italy, Britain, Brazil and Nigeria</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, according to the Daily Mail.</span>
<span class="underline">Even smaller countries like Sweden are in grave danger because of damage to their infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>
<span class="underline">The list has been compiled by researchers from the University of Southampton</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> using NEOimpactor, a soft-ware short for NASA's "NEO" or Near Earth Object programme.</span>
Looking at population loss, the US, China, Indonesia, India and Japan will face the greatest possible danger. <span class="underline">Canada and Sweden, </span>besides US, China and Japan<span class="underline"> will suffer massive infrastructural devastation</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">"</span>The threat of Earth being hit by an asteroid is increasingly being accepted as the single greatest natural disaster hazard faced by humanity," said Nick Bailey from the University of Southampton,<span style="font-size: 16px;"> who developed the NEOimpactor software.</span>
The threat of asteroid hits became imminent recently when a rock as large as a small house whizzed by with-in kissing distance of Earth. Red-faced astronomers only discovered it a few days before, thinking it was a piece of space junk<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>

**Meteorite Impacts have caused Deaths to Humans** 
**Yuga 01**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"><What have Impacts done to Humans in Recorded History? [[http://www.oberlin.edu/faculty/bsimonso/group9.htm]], > </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> If one does not include the report in Joshua 10:11, which says that lethal stones were cast down from heaven by God in about 1420 BCE (Lewis 1996),</span>the first known death-by-meteorite reported occurred in 616 CE in China. Ten people were allegedly killed after a meteorite impacted<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">at the site of siege towers; the towers were destroyed, and their toppling might have been responsible for the deaths rather than the meteorite directly hitting the victims (Yau et al. 1994).</span>  A meteorite shower that bored holes in houses and killed humans and livestock was reported to have occurred in China sometime in between 1321 and 1361. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This report could be viewed as weak because of the dating issues, but Yau, Weissman, and Yeomans suggest that the variation in dates is due to copying errors that occurred during the recompilation of the local histories, so it is still plausible (Yau et al. 1994). Yau et al. also tell of several other incidents in China, such</span>as the Chíang-shou County Meteorite of 1639, in which tens of people were reportedly killed and a similar number of houses were damaged;the Hsin-píai-wei Meteorite of 1907, in which the Wan family was allegedly killed<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(possibly from the collapse of their house after impact); and the Ta-yang-chang Meteorite of 1915, which resulted in injuries but no deaths (Yau et al. 1994).</span>   The most incredible Chinese report is that of the Chíing-yang Meteorite Shower of 1490<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Supposedly, </span>tens of thousands of people were killed during the shower in the Shansi province. 


Deflection is possible with improved detection—It is the most important challenge facing humanity.
Campbell et al 04 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[ Jonathan W. Campbell, Claude Phipps and Larry Smalley, et al, NASA astrophysicists and research scientists, 2004 Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids; Orange County, CA; Feb. 23-26, 2004, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.csa.com/discoveryguides/planetary/abstracts-f.php]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ] LMC</span>

Impacting at hypervelocity, an asteroid struck the Earth approximately 65 million years ago in the Yucatan Peninsula area. This triggered the eventual extinction of almost 70 percent of the species of life on Earth including the dinosaurs. Other impacts prior to this one have caused even greater losses. Preventing collisions with the Earth by hypervelocity asteroids, meteoroids, and comets is the most critical space challenge facing human civilization.This is the Impact Imperative. We now believe that while there are about 2000 Earth orbit crossing rocks greater than 1 km in diameter, there may be as many as 200,000 or more objects in the 100-m size range. Can anything be done about this fundamental existence question facing our civilization? The answer is a resounding yes.By using an intelligent synthesis of sensors, high-energy laser arrays, other secondary mitigation options, and near term space transportation technologies in an Earth/moon/space systems infrastructure, inbound asteroids, meteoroids, and comets can be deflected and prevented from striking the Earth<span class="underline">.</span> With lasers, this can be accomplished by irradiating the surface of an inbound rock with sufficiently intense pulses so that ablation occurs. This ablation acts as a small rocket incrementally changing the shape of the rocks orbit around the sun.<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">One-kilometer size rocks can be moved sufficiently in about a month while smaller rocks may be moved in a shorter time span.</span> We recommend that world space objectives be reprioritized to start moving immediately towards a systems infrastructure that will support a multiple option defense capability centered around a lunar base. Planning and development for lunar facilities should be initiated immediately in parallel with other options. Infrastructure options should include ground, LEO, GEO, Lunar, and libration point laser and sensor stations for providing early warning, tracking, and deflection.<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">All mitigation options are greatly enhanced by robust early warning, detection, and tracking resources to find objects sufficiently prior to Earth orbit passage in time to allow significant intervention.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">There’s No Question About The Impact—All three of Earth’s __Mass Extinctions__ were caused by NEO Strikes</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Friend, 2011</span> [The New Yorker Vermin of the Sky; Who will keep the planet safe from asteroids? February 28, 2011; Tad Friend <span style="color: #000000;">Tad Friend is a graduate of </span>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shipley_School|The Shipley School]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_College|Harvard College]]; Pg. 22 Vol. 87 No. 2] LMC

"Armageddon" and "Deep Impact," the fireball-laden 1998 movies about, respectively, an incoming asteroid and an incoming comet, were seen by well over a hundred million filmgoers. So word got out that our sector of the solar system is a giant pachinko game, stuffed with asteroids and comets that whiz around looking for something to crash into. These near-Earth objects, or NEOs, as astronomers call them, have been implicated in three mass extinctions, most famously when a seven-mile-wide asteroid slammed into the sea off the Yucatán Peninsula, setting the planet afire and killing off the dinosaurs.
That was a long time ago, even before Ben Franklin or Copernicus. More recently, in 2002, an asteroid exploded over the Mediterranean, and later that year a fiery NEO crashed into a Siberian mountain. In 2008, S.U.V.-size asteroids plunged into the Sudanese desert and streaked over Saskatchewan, and, in 2009, one blew up high above Indonesia, with three times the power of the atom bomb that destroyed Hiroshima. Just last week, a several-ton rock blazed across the noonday sky above the Atlantic Ocean so brightly that it was visible from Massachusetts to Maryland. And still we earthlings haven't mustered a response.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">A Recent fossil discovery by Yale research team proves dinosaurs became extinct due to the NEO impact</span>
(<span style="font-size: 16px;">ANI</span>) July 14, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span>[Asian News International 'Last dinosaur' fossil backs asteroid extinction theory lexis-nexis]LMC
Researchers from Yale University have discovered the youngest dinosaur preserved in the fossil record before the catastrophic meteor impact 65 million years ago. 
The finding indicates that dinosaurs did not go extinct prior to the impact and provides further evidence as to whether <span class="underline">the impact was in fact the cause of their extinction</span>.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Researchers discovered the fossilized horn of a ceratopsian - likely a Triceratops, which are common to the area - in the Hell Creek formation in Montana last year. They foundthat the fossil buried just five inches be-low the K-T boundary, the geological layer that marks the transition from the Cretaceous period to the Ter-tiary period at the time of the mass extinction that took place 65 million years ago.</span>
The study has been published online in the journal Biology Letters. (ANI)


Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.
Nick<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Bostrom</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">, 2011</span> Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-right region of figure 2. </span>For any fixed probability, **existential risks are**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> thus </span><span class="Underline0">**more serious than other risk categories**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. But just how much more serious might not be intuitively obvious. </span>One might think we could get a grip on how bad an existential catastrophe would be by considering some of the worst historical disasters we can think of<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—such as the two world wars, the Spanish flu pandemic, or the Holocaust—</span>and then imagining something just a bit worse. Yet if we look at global population statistics over time, we find that these horrible events of the past century **fail to register**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (figure 3).</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Graphic Omitted] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Figure 3: World population over the last century. Calamities such as the Spanish flu pandemic, the two world wars, and the Holocaust scarcely register. (If one stares hard at the graph, one can perhaps just barely make out a slight temporary reduction in the rate of growth of the world population during these events.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But </span>even this reflection fails to bring out the seriousness of existential risk. What makes existential catastrophes **especially bad** is<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> not that they would show up robustly on a plot like the one in figure 3, causing a precipitous drop in world population or average quality of life. Instead, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">their significance lies primarily in </span><span class="Underline0" style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the fact that they would destroy the future</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">philosopher Derek Parfit made a similar point with the following thought experiment:</span>
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">I believe that if we destroy mankind, as we now can, this outcome will be much worse than most people think. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Compare three outcomes</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">:</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(1) Peace</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(2) A nuclear war that kills 99% of the world’s existing population</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(3) A nuclear war that kills 100%</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(2) would be worse than (1), and (3) would be worse than (2)</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. Which is the greater of these two differences? Most people believe that the greater difference is between (1) and (2). I believe that </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the difference between (2) and (3) is **very much greater**</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. … </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The Earth will remain habitable for at least another billion years. Civilization began only a few thousand years ago. If we do not destroy mankind, these few thousand years may be only **a tiny fraction of the whole of civilized human history**. The difference between (2) and (3) may</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> thus </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">be the difference between this tiny fraction and **all of the rest of this history**. If we compare this possible history to a day, what has occurred so far is only **a fraction of a second**</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">. (10: 453-454)</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that **the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical**</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.One gets a large number even if one confines one’s consideration to the potential for biological human beings living on Earth. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">If we suppose</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> with Parfit </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">that our planet will remain habitable for at least another billion years</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">and</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> we assume </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">that at least one billion people could live on it sustainably</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">then the potential exist for at least **1018 human lives**. These lives could</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> also </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">be **considerably better than the average contemporary human life**, which is so often marred by disease, poverty, injustice, and various biological limitations that could be partly overcome through continuing technological and moral progress</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.However, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the relevant figure is not how many people could live on Earth but how many descendants we could have in total. One lower bound of the number of biological human life-years in the future accessible universe</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (based on current cosmological estimates) </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">is **1034 years**</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.[10] Another estimate, which assumes that future minds will be mainly implemented in computational hardware instead of biological neuronal wetware, produces a lower bound of 1054 human-brain-emulation subjective life-years (or 1071 basic computational operations).(4)[11] </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">If we make the less conservative assumption that future civilizations could eventually press close to the absolute bounds of known physics</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (using some as yet unimagined technology), </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">we get **radically higher estimates** of the amount of computation and memory storage that is achievable and thus of the number of years of subjective experience that could be realized</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">.[12]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Even if we use **the most conservative of these estimates**, which entirely ignores the possibility of space colonization and software minds, </span><span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">we find</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">that **the expected loss of an existential catastrophe is greater than the value of 1018 human lives**. This implies that</span><span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the expected value of reducing existential risk by a mere one millionth of one percentage point is at least ten times the value of a billion human lives</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. The more technologically comprehensive estimate of 1054 human-brain-emulation subjective life-years</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> (or 1052 lives of ordinary length) </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">makes the same point even more starkly. Even if we give this allegedly lower bound on the cumulative output potential of a </span>technologically mature civilization **a mere 1% chance of being correct**, we find that **the expected value of reducing existential risk by a mere one billionth of one billionth of one percentage point is worth a hundred billion times as much as a billion human lives**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. One might consequently argue that </span><span class="Underline0">**even the tiniest reduction of existential risk has an expected value greater than that of the definite provision of any “ordinary” good****, such as the direct benefit of saving 1 billion lives**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And, further, that </span><span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the absolute value of the indirect effect of saving 1 billion lives on the total cumulative amount of existential risk</span>**</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">—positive or negative—</span><span class="Underline0" style="font-size: 13.3333px;">is almost certainly larger than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.[13]</span>




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]