[[toc]]
[[2011-2012 - Edina (MN) - Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Return to main page]]

=Heidegger= 
==1NC - Greenhill RR== 

Their attempt to find an outer-spatial fix to earthly problems destroys our ability to connect with the world around us
Lazier 11 (Benjamin, Associate Professor of History and Humanities at Reed College, “Earthrise: or, Globalization of the World Picture,” in The American Historical Review 116.3) gender edited

IN 1990, THE GERMAN ASTRONOMERS [...] glance seem unsuited to it.12


Ontological damnation and extinction
Caputo 93 — professor of Humanities at Syracuse
(John Caputo, Demythologizing Heidegger, 1993 p. 136-141)

In his essay "The Thing [...] essential, authentic, ontological destruction.

Our alternative isn’t a fatalistic rejection of technology—rather rejection is a form of releasement that reorients our relationship towards technological modes of thought
Botha 02 (Catherine, Dept. of Philosophy @ Univ. of Pretoria, “Heidegger, Technology and Ecology,” South African Journal of Philosophy, Vol 22, Issue 2, p. ebscohost)

Homelessness is the mood of the [...] West has encouraged this technological servitude.

=Security= 
==1NC - Greenhill RR== 

<Insert Link>

Their securitized representations justify biopolitical control and genocide
Coviello 2K—Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On

Perhaps. But to claim that [...] that can scarcely be done without.


Their framework of control creates a hatred for life
James Der Derian, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 1998, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks

Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's [...] of mistrust and evil experiences." 39


The alternative is to vote negative – rejecting their representations is key to emancipatory politics
Mark Neocleous, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ ‘8 [Critique of Security, 185-6]

The only way out of such [...] enough to return the gift."'


==Nietzsche 1NC - Greenhill== 

Insecurity and danger are inevitable – the attempt to control it only breeds violence
James Der Derian, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 1998, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks

The rapidity of change in the [...] site for a permanently electioneering elite.


Their framework of controlling the world creates a hatred for life. Their attempt to solve problems ignores that danger is inevitable and integral to life
James Der Derian, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 1998, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks

Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's [...] of mistrust and evil experiences." 39


Thus the alternative – embrace the instability of the status quo by allowing the Aff impacts to happen.

Our deaths are inevitable, the only question is how we face it. Only by embracing the violence of the 1AC can we truly affirm life. The Aff attempt to solve these problems only traps us in a cycle of resentment that makes this very security inevitable
Joanne Faulkner, ARC Research Fellow in the School of History and Philosophy at the University of New South Wales, Spring/Autumn 2008, “The Innocence of Victimhood Versus the “Innocence of Becoming”: Nietzsche, 9/11, and the “Falling Man””, The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Project MUSE

Most significantly, for the purposes [...] must have felt like flying.”33

==Framework 1NC - Greenhill RR== 

Representations must precede policy discussion
Neta Crawford ,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. Argument and Change in World Politics, 2002 p. 19-21

Coherent arguments are unlikely to take [...] framing is a meta-argument.


==China Links== 

Their detached and orderly description of China reduces a complex and nuanced society to a specimen that can be clinically observed and analyzed—this approach to ‘knowing China’ renders critical reflection impossible and legitimizes violence.
Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations at the Australian National University, 2004 (“The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Volume 29, Issue 3, June/July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Premier, p. 305-306)

While U.S. China [...] invisible by those common positivist assumptions.


==Disease Links== 

A. Disease is Not an objective knowledge
Jablensky, World Health Organization, 2005 [Assen, Understanding the Global Dimensions of Health, eds. S. Gunn, P. Mansourian, A. Davies, A. Piel & B. Sayers, p. 232]

Any discussion of the concept of [...] intersection of quite diverse ontological schemata.


B. Fear of disease outbreaks necessitates exclusionary practices to purify the self
Schell, Phd Candidate at Stanford University, 1997 [Heather, Outburst! A Chilling True Story about Emerging-Virus Narratives and Pandemic Social Change, Configurations 5.1]

Although I like the implications of [...] 1990s have become almost reliable villains.


C. Makes extermination inevitable
Schell, Phd Candidate at Stanford University, 1997 [Heather, Outburst! A Chilling True Story about Emerging-Virus Narratives and Pandemic Social Change, Configurations 5.1]

Being immobile pathogens, viruses need [...] isolation endangers the rest of us.

==Economy Links==
Economics as a science fails - their predictions are useless
Bergmann 5 (Barbara, Professor Emerita of Economics at Maryland and American and trustee of the Economists for Peace and Security, July, "The Current State of Economics: Needs Lots of Work," Annals of the American Academy of POoitical and Social Science, Sage Publications, JSTOR) 

More than two hundred years have  [...] policies congenial to the party's constituency.


==Hegemony Links== 
Their pursuit of hegemony is based on a fantasy of control that relies upon the existence of threatening monsters to maintain the illusion of personal strength and discipline. This grand strategy prompts resistance and creates a permanent state of conflict, turning constructed enemies into real enemies and flipping the case.
Ira Chernus, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 2006 (Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin, Published by Paradigm Publishers, ISBN 1594512752, p. 53-54)

The end of the cold war [...] believe and enact the neocon story.


==Network-centric Warfare Links== 

Network-centric warfare is an inherently securitizing and capitalist strategy that allows the state to maintain power under the guise of maintaining hegemony
Burghardt 9 – a frequent contributor to Global Research, researcher and activist based in the San Francisco Bay Area (6/11/2009, Tom, “Network-centric Warfare Dominating entire societies Worldwide through ubiquitous surveillance”, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=13939) MGM

What Pentagon theorists describe as a [...] as just another manageable network enterprise.

==Russia Links== 

Russian threats of accidents, nuclear use, and collapse are constructed and create self-fulfilling prophecies that justify the security state
Rumer and Sokolsky 01 (Eugene B. Rumer served at the State Department, on the staff of the National Security Council, and at the Rand Corporation. He holds degrees from Boston University (BA), Georgetown (MA), and MIT (PhD). Richard D. Sokolsky served as the director of the Office of Strategic Policy and Negotiations in the Department of State. He has published numerous articles on foreign and national security policy in leading journals and newspapers. “Normalizing U.S.-Russian Relations” Published in Strategic Forum; Institute for national strategic studies. National Defense university. April 2001)

Ten years after the end of [...] CTR) Initiative, is limited.




==Warming Links== 

Their warming impacts participate in securitization
Tuathail 1996 [Gearóid Ó, Professor of Government and International Affairs and Director of the Masters of Public and International Affairs program – Virginia Tech, Sept. “AT THE END OF GEOPOLITICS?.” http://www.nvc.vt.edu/toalg/Website/Publish/papers/End.htm]

Even within the much remarked upon [...] to save planet earth from destruction.







[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]