[[toc]]
gregory[dot]c[dot]dunn[at]gmail.com for cites
=Affirmative= 
==Alta== 
**The US federal government is highly militarized now**
**Daheshyar 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Hossein Daheshyar is Senior Researcher of Iran's Center For Scientific Research And Middle East Strategic Studies, 8/18/11, </span>__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://uscloseup.com/content/significance-militarism-obama-era]]</span>__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The era </span>__of the ... based on those interests.__

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And space military satellites are the lynchpin of our current quest for extending military dominance—we’re reliant and analysts are pushing for weaponization. Dolman is symptomatic of the typical realist assumption of the inevitability of a militaristic mindset</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dolman 5</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” September 14th, [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 10pt;">The U</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 10pt;">S</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 10pt;">has </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> military GPS receiver.</span>

**And the discourse and policy of militarizing outer space causes the management of the public psyche toward militarism and violent hegemony**
**Orr 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jackie Orr, from the department of sociology at Syracuse University, “The Militarization of Inner Space,” Critical Sociology, March 2004, volume 2, issue 30, pg. 451-481.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps </span>__the domination of .... Economy. Culture. Society. Psyche__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**This militarization of the public mindset turns humans into delivery systems for violence and justifies all atrocities**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Orr 04,** Jackie Orr, from the department f sociology at Syracuse University, “The Militarization of Inner Space,” //Critical Sociology,// March 2004, volume 2, issue 30, pg. 451-481.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">At a time of national ...</span> onto an unforeseen future<span class="Underline">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">*****</span>Moreover, these discourses of fear abolish differences inside a community that is labeled as threat, legitimating genocidal war against that community.
Jabri 6 **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Vivienne, senior lecturer in the department of war studies at Kings College and director of the IR Department “War, Security and the Liberal State” Security Dialogue 2006; 37; 47)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">All are</span> __practices__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> that </span>__draw upon a ... mutually implicating and__ mutually __enabling__.**

***Militaristic threat construction by experts is a self-fulfilling prophecy—they preclude any possibility of escape from their nightmarish realism**
**Foster 94** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Gregory, Professor at the National Defense University, Alternatives, v. 19 n.1 p. 86-88)</span>
__Threat-talk becomes ... other potentially fruitful possibilities__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**Specifically, US space dominance discourse tries to disguise its offensive nature—this justifies the use of the US as a global imperialistic police force**
**Webb 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Dave Webb, Professor of Engineering Modeling, Director of the 'Praxis Centre" (a multidisciplinary research centre for the 'Study of Information Technology to Peace, Conflict and Human Rights') and a member of the School of Applied Global Ethics at Leeds Metropolitan University. "Securing Outer Space"; "Space Weapons: Dream, nightmare or reality?" Routledge Critical Security Studies Series, 2009)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, </span>__the US is determined ...__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">rigorously monitored and controlled.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus the </span>**plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of outer space by repurposing all of its space military satellites toward developing a network of cooperative, internationally accessible environmental monitoring satellites. We reserve the right to clarify.**

**Discourse is key in this context—current US policy and discourse legitimizes space weaponization**
**Bormann 6** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Dr. Natalie Bormann, Professor of Political Science at Northeastern, PhD in International Policy, “The Lost Dimension? A Virilian reading of Outer Space Weaponization” 22/3/2006) </span>
__The articulation of__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> certain </span>__...__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">for the drawing of the boundaries around space.</span>

***edited for glang**

**And it’s reverse causal: space militarization is the key internal to space "battlefield" discourse**
**Bormann 6** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Dr. Natalie Bormann, Professor of Political Science at Northeastern, PhD in International Policy, “The Lost Dimension? A Virilian reading of Outer Space Weaponization” 22/3/2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The possibility of </span>__new military ...__ __Space as a battlefield.__

**Specifically, space is both a blank canvas and a mirror—addressing space through the 1AC is key to fundamentally change overall IR discourse and policy**
**Stuart 9**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jill, Dr . Jill Stuart is LSE Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “Unbundling Sovereignty, Territory, and the State in Outer Space”, from //Securing Outer Space,// edited by Bormann and Sheehan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This chapter furthers the engagement with ...</span>__politics must be reconceived__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

**We must view space as an opportunity to serve the universal good of humanity rather than the interests of specific populations – we can use satellites for nonmilitary public goods like the environment**
**And put away your privatization counterplans**
**Dickens 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies, University of Cambridge (Peter, November, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But humanizing outer space can be for good as well as for ill. It can either, as is now happening, be in a form primarily benefiting those who are already in positions of economic, social, and military power. Or humanization can be something much more positive and socially beneficial. What might this more progressive form of cosmic humanization look like?</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Most obviously, </span>the technology ...<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> observe on an everyday basis?</span>

**Cooperative science projects like the plan make global cosmopolitanism an international necessity—the plan causes a shift in our collective mentalities away from traditional notions of state sovereignty**
**Stuart 09** [Jill, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Dr . Jill Stuart is LSE Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “Unbundling Sovereignty, Territory, and the State in Outer Space”, from //Securing Outer Space,// edited by Bormann and Sheehan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Regime theory provides a ... meaning "order" and "universe" .</span>

*The preceding card has been edited for gendered language.

**Concentrating on environmental problems in space encourages peaceful, cooperative action as opposed to militarization—solves the impact to your disads**
<span class="Underline">**Moltz, 08** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[James Clay ,Associate Professor and Academic Associate for Security Studies,</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 7pt;"> , Politics of Space Security]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What emerges from this ... as will be discussed later.)</span>

**Realism and weaponization are NOT inevitable, but US action is key—we need to take the first step towards international institutionalism**
<span class="Underline">**Moltz, 08**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [James Clay ,Associate Professor and Academic Associate for Security Studies,</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 7pt;"> , Politics of Space Security]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">A second and sharply contrasting ... </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">both resources and political clout."c8</span>

**And now is key—**
**A. We have to act before the weaponization of space—we’re at the brink**
**Bormann 6** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Dr. Natalie Bormann, Professor of Political Science at Northeastern, PhD in International Policy, “The Lost Dimension? A Virilian reading of Outer Space Weaponization” 22/3/2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For Virilio, and myself, this ...</span> __no intervention possible__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

**B. We are at a tipping point in our psychic relation to the cosmos: either you vote aff to endorse a critical cosmopolitanism or you cede control of outer space to the neo-cons**
**Dickens and Ormrod 07 – Professors at the University of Essex** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Peter and James, August 2007, “Outer Space and Internal Nature: Towards a Sociology of the University” Sociology volume 41 number 4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This article has explored some ... </span> are contested in pivotal times.

**C. Foreign policy is in flux—it’s a unique opportunity to concretely change the direction of policy and discourse**
**PSC 10** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Peace and Solidarity Commission,6/4/10, Communist Party of the USA, “We Need a New Kind of Peace Movement,” [[http://www.cpusa.org/we-need-a-new-kind-of-peace-movement/]])</span>
__U__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">tates </span>__imperialism ... sustain life on the planet.__


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]