[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=Contention 1 Inherency= 

**No initiative to launch DSCOVR**
**Anderson, 07** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mitchell, August 7, worked for eight years as a staff scientist at Sierra Legal Defence Fund and has written extensively on environmental and social policy issues for a variety of national and international publications, A DeSmogBlog exclusive investigation into NASA's DSCOVR climate station, [[http://desmogblog.com/mitchell_anderson]])</span>

Somewhere in …  not your average climate satellite.

**Thus we present the following plan:** 
**Resolved: The United States federal government should launch Deep Space Climate Observatory.** 

=Contention 2- Solar Storms= 

**The sun is in the low end of its cycle; big solar storms are coming**
**Phillips,** <span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">production editor of Science@NASA,</span> 20**11**
(Dr. Tony, NASA “Getting Ready for the Next Big Solar Storm,” [[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2011/22jun_swef2011/]] , June 21, accessed 7-22-11, ASR)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">In Sept. 1859, on the.… impact of 20 hurricane Katrinas</span>.

**There will be a catastrophic storm by 2013**
**Kent**, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">The Newfoundland Herald,</span> 20**10**
(Valerie, The Newfoundland Herald, “Solar Storm Looming?” [[http://www.nfldherald.com/features/Herald_Solar-Storm-Looming.pdf]], July 18, 2010, accessed 7-22-11, ASR)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“The Sun is waking… </span>detestation as Hurricane Katrina did.


**The storm will end civilization, killing more people than any war.**
**Unruh 10’**
[Bob Unruh staff writer of WorldNet daily, august 12, 10’ [[http://www.wnd.com/?pageId=190721]]] JB

<span style="text-decoration: none;">More horrifying than…. </span>fuel into a cargo ship?

**The effect would be global**
**Brooks,** PhD in Quantum Physics, 3/23/**09**
[Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, BJM]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Such nightmare scenarios are …. </span>but occasionally it will get you."



<span class="Underline">**The damage is comparable to nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Eccleston, Spring 2011**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Chief Consultant for the Environmental Planning and NEPA Services Corporation and Stuyvenberg, Environmental Project Manager, US Nuclear Regulatory Comission, 2011 (Charles and Andrew, Environmental Quality Management, “The Perfect Electrical Storm? “ Volume 20, Issue 3, Article first published online: 14 MAR 2011, DOI 10.1002/tqem / Spring 2011 / 43 Published online in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com) </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/tqem.20288/pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> , accessed 7-2-11, ASR) </span>

According to Kappenman, <span style="text-decoration: none;">power… newly deprived neighbors.</span>

**Collapse of power grids will cause nuclear meltdowns**
**Tabor, July 2011**
[Damon, Popular Science, “SUN STROKE”, Lexis, BJM]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">One of the biggest disasters… power for one to two years</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Extinction**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Wasserman, 01</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> - Senior Editor – Free Press (Harvey, “America's Terrorist Nuclear Threat to Itself”, October, </span><span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm]]</span><span style="color: #000000;">)</span>

The intense radioactive heat… <span style="color: #000000;">be shut down.</span>

**Current early warning systems fail**
**Brooks**, PhD in quantum physics, 3/23/**09**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, BJM]</span>

However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">observations… </span>fail, <span style="text-decoration: none;">is</span> rather <span style="text-decoration: none;">foolish."</span>
**DSCOVR gives early solar storm warning**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Scripps 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Scripps 2011 http://www.sio.ucsd.edu/About/Research_Overview/The_Oceans_and_Global_Change/</span>

Scripps is participating… general public via the Internet.



**Early warning saves the grid**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">OCIPEP</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 4/25/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">02</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, “Geomagnetic Storms - Reducing the Threat to Critical Infrastructure in Canada”, http://www.solarstorms.org/CanadaPipelines.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none;">Preventative measures have… warning of a storm threat.</span>




=Contention 3- Climate= 

**Warming is real & anthropogenic – consensus of scientists are on our side**
**<span class="TagChar">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cook 10</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (John, Solar Physics Scientist @ University of Queensland, Adjunct Fellow at the University of Queensland, “The human fingerprint in global warming”, 29 March 2010, http://www.skepticalscience.com/human-fingerprint-in-global-warming.html) </span>

In science, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there's only… the atmosphere and global warming</span>."



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> </span>
**The status quo risks catastrophic failures in our Earth monitoring systems that are essential for managing climate change -- only US federal action solves.** 
**Lewis et al., 2010**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span class="st" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Satellites provide globally… can only be done from space</span>. 
**DSCOVR solves warming, climate leadership, and international relations**
**Anderson, 07** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mitchell, August 7, worked for eight years as a staff scientist at Sierra Legal Defence Fund and has written extensively on environmental and social policy issues for a variety of national and international publications, A DeSmogBlog exclusive investigation into NASA's DSCOVR climate station, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://desmogblog.com/mitchell_anderson]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

In fact, DSCOVR is not a satellite…. DSCOVR would be a top priority. 



**Information capabilities are a necessary condition for solving climate change -- the aff revitalizes US climate leadership, which is key**
**Lewis et al., 2010**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span class="st" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, BJM]</span>

Climate change will have pervasive… <span style="text-decoration: none;">capability shortfall is eliminated. </span>



**DSCOVR allows for tech innovations that solve warming**
**The National academies, 00**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (does in depth research in problems of engineering medicine and science, march 3,)</span>

The goals and objectives of the Triana….is on exploring the technique




**Satellites are key to predictive models —ground, sea, and airborne observation don’t give the complete picture**
**GAO 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">(Government Accountability Office, “ENVIRONMENTAL SATELLITES Strategy Needed to Sustain Critical Climate and Space Weather Measurements,” April 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=gmail&attid=0.1&thid=13153eda6bd0cba7&mt=application/pdf&url=https://mail.google.com/mail/?ui%3D2%26ik%3D1d49613b60%26view%3Datt%26th%3D13153eda6bd0cba7%26attid%3D0.1%26disp%3Dsafe%26realattid%3Df_gqfpmsjd0%26zw&sig=AHIEtbTemLrr0aEGSwRmvZHYiRE3WOw2kg]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">)</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Since the 1960s, the United… coverage, and ozone coverage.</span>


**Predictions are necessary to create plans to combat warming—people can’t form effective strategies if they’re trying to fix the wrong problem**
**Hamre 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">(John, President and CEO of the Center for Strategic & International Studies, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">)</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Slowly</span>, painfully,<span style="text-decoration: none;">we are… certainty into policy efforts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**Warming will cause extinction.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Oliver </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tickell</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Environmental Researcher, 8/11/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">’**8**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">([[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]) [Quals Added]</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">We need to get… a similar hothouse Earth</span>


**Climate change is worse than all other impacts—scale and urgency ensure**
**__Burke__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Tom (former statutory advisor to the British Government on biodiversity and member of the European Environmental Bureau. Speech to the Royal College of Physicians: “Climate change and health” http://www.e3g.org/index.php/programmes/climate-articles/climate-change-and-health/) 1/29/20</span>**__08__**

There are three ways in … Manhattan Projects look unambitious.


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]