[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Contact Info:
Ivan Garcia: [[mailto:Ivan.gar15@gmail.com|Ivan.gar15@gmail.com]]
Rolando Velasquez: [[mailto:n.r.velasquez@gmail.com|n.r.velasquez@gmail.com]]
==1AC- Grapevine== 
**Contention One: The Status Quo**
**The ban on US-China space cooperation is based on fear of China’s space program**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Ward 7-8 </span>**(Kenric, Chief Political Correspondent, “U.S. Law Restricts Chinese Access at NASA,” Lexis)
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Congress's</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">newly enacted</span>....<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">military and civilian industrial sectors are all one and the same.</span>

**Plan**: **the United States federal government should offer the People’s Republic of China participation in joint space exploration missions.**

**Contention Two: The Security Dilemma**
**Current US stance towards China on space is locked in the mindset of securitization- only coop solves**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Shixiu '7 </span>**(Bao Shixiu, Senior Research Fellow at the Academy of Military Sciences, "Deterrence Revisited: Outer Space", 2007, World Security Institute, http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf//)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The U.S</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. position....</span><span class="DebateUnderline">this problem accordingly</span>.


**And, constructing China as a threat is based on a flawed reductionist discourse that must be rejected**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Pan ‘4 </span>**(Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives 2004, p. 325-326)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">I have argued above that</span>...<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">debating China might become possible.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Chinese threats are grounded in US primacy’s demand of securitization versus a vague other—this logic creates a self-fulfilling cycle of endless intervention </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Pan ‘4 </span>**Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives 2004,,. Pages 310-313.]
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;">In 1630, John Winthrop,...</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">recognize its autobiographical nature.</span>


**And, arguments of an aggressive China are wrong- Chinese space policy is driven by United States fear and has created a security dilemma**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Zhang ‘11</span>**(Baohui Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, JSTOR, 2011, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011) (pp. 311-332), http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">)</span>


<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">China’s</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> military </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">space program...</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">toward a space arms race</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>


**Makes their impacts inevitable**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Johnson-Freese ‘6</span>**(Joan Chair of the National Security Decision Making Department at the US naval War College, 2006 “China Security, http://www.wsichina.org/attach/china_security2.pdf)
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Arms race Due to...in the fissile material cut-off treaty (FMCT).15</span>


**And, Securitization of space reduces all life to bare minimum – enables extermination**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Duvall and Havercroft ‘6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Raymond, Professor of political science @ University of Minnesota, and Dr. Jonathan professor of political science @ Oklahoma University, October 2006, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weapons and Empire of the Future” http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=1&fid=2185920&jid=RIS&volumeId=34&issueId=04&aid=2185916)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Each of the three forms...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">would be an understatement!</span>



**And, discourse has dramatic effects on policy outcomes**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Gehrke ‘2 </span>**(Pat J. Prof Of English Language And Literature at University Of South Carolina, Critique Arguments As Policy Analysis: Policy Debate Beyond The Rationalist Perspective, Perspectives In Controversy: Selected Essays From Contemporary Argumentation And Debate, P. 316-317)



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Interpretive perspective...about</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> their implementation.</span>


**Contention Two: Solvency**

**Uncertainty within space policy creates securitization and fear- cooperating on space development key to solve**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Blair and Yali ‘8 </span>**(President of the World Security Institute, Project Director at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment and Senior Fellow at the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution “The Space Security Dilemma,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.chinasecurity.us/images/stories/cs2-editorsnotes.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">A dialogue of the...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">about the Bush Moon-Mars Initiative.</span>

**And, China says yes**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Foust '6</span>**(Jeff, Editor and Publisher of Space Review, “China, Competition, and Cooperation,” Space Review, April 10, 2006, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/599/1]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">After Luo’s talk, it was clear that...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">far less than a space race.</span>


**And, China will follow the United States lead on space policies**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Houpt ’11 </span>**(Daniel M., Master of Arts, Security Studies, Georgetown University, “Does China have a comprehensive, coordinated, and consistent space policy? Implications for U.S. policymakers,” ProQuest, accessed 7/1/11, p. 55)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The U.S. has </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">greater...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">progresses as a space power.</span>


**And, the aff breaks down traditional realist notions- now is key**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Rathberger et al ‘7 </span>**(Wolfgang, European Space Policy Institute Resident Fellow China’s Posture In Space, Report 3, June 2007, Pp 42-43), Paris)


<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Even if China has...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">for its political implications.</span>



**And, and don’t believe their conservative hype securitization isn’t inevitable**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Williams ‘3</span>**(Michael, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales, “Words, Images, Enemies: Securitization and International Politics,” International Studies Quarterly)

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">‘‘</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Desecuritization’’ involves...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">conventional sense (Wæver, 1998b). </span>

**Use the ballot to endorse pragmatic peace-building activities. We should affirm challenges to the rhetorical and foreign policy practices that allow for otherization.**
**Ivie ‘7**(Robert, Prof. Comm. And Culture. – U. Indiana Bloomington, Rhetoric & Public Affairs, “Fighting Terror by Rite of Redemption and Reconciliation”, 10(2), Project Muse)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Most notably, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">this rhetorical cycling...</span>deifying rituals of redemptive violence.




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
=T= 
==**T- S/ex**== 
**Space exploration requires human presence**
John M. **Logsdon**, Professor of political Science and International affairs at George Washington University, **2009**, NASA, “50 Years of Human Spaceflight: Why Is There Still a Controversy?”, [[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Many believe that the...</span>in the MIT white paper.

=Disads= 
==Space Militarization== 
**1. Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">As is well understood, the space policies</span>...<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">lurk in these details. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**2. US leadership will bring others on board**</span>
**Foust, 10**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – editor of the Space Review (Jeff, The Space Review, “Securing space security”, 12/20, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1746/1]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Regardless of the approach</span>__...__down at the table together__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.”</span></span>

**3. The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Cooperation for contested and competitive domain</span>...<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">of responsible space-faring nations. </span></span>

**4. Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 9.33333px;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 9.33333px;">)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Perhaps of even greater concern</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>


**5. Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation**

**Krepon et al, 11**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">While some have compared space</span>...<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">undercut by the use of force in space. </span>



=Politics= 
==Jobs Bill== 
**Markets convinced Obama’s stimulus plan will pass Congress, this perception is critical to avoiding a market downturn**
**Bloomberg, 9-7,** <span style="font-size: 12px;">11, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-08/asian-stocks-rise-for-second-day-on-u-s-stimulus-optimism-european-debt.html]]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Asian stocks gained...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">appropriate responses.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Plan burns political capital**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">STEWART M. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">POWELL, 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(staff writer, Sept. 13, 2009, “Potential uphill battle for NASA,” http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">NASA supporters are bracing...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">speaking on condition of anonymity.</span>


**Political capital key -- Obama will have to push hard to get a strong jobs bill through Congress, plan undermines his credibility**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">IHT 8/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(</span>The International Herald Tribune, August 11, 2011 Long-term recovery puts Obama's short term at risk; News Analysis, p. 6<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">If Mr. Black's take is correct...</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">director of communications. </span>

**Perceptions that job-creation legislation will pass are necessary to reassure US investors and stave-off a recession**
**LA Times, 9-5,** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">11, [[http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/money_co/2011/09/eurozone-stocks-fall.html]] DOA: 9/5/11</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">On Monday, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Asia's stock market...</span></span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">and stave off another recession.</span>

**Double-dip recession causes a depression**
**Shiller 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Robert J. Shiller is a professor of economics and finance at Yale and a co-founder and the chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC., NYT, 5/16/11, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/16/business/16view.html]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">I use a definition of...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">one event, [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/g/great_depression_1930s/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|the Great Depression]]. </span>

**Nuclear war**
**Mead 9** – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">If current market turmoil seriously...</span>still <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-decoration: none;">have to fight</span>**.**



=Counter plans= 

==Nanotech Cp== 
Text: The United States federal government should increase research and development for geoengineering technology. The United States federal government should fund research and development for nanotechnology.
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Rapid warming is inevitable without increasing investment in geoengineering</span>
Guardian ‘8 <span class="DebateSecondaryCiteChar">("Extreme and risky action the only way to tackle global warming, say scientists," http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2008/sep/01/climatechange.scienceofclimatechange2)</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Political</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> inaction on...species would face extinction.</span>


**Nanotech solves resource conflict**
**McCarthy ‘8** <span class="DebateSecondaryCiteChar">(http://www.mccarthy.cx/WorldSystem/ Tom Mccarthy no date accessed 12/23/08)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">One of the highest hopes...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">rather than consume it.</span>




==Privatization Cp== 
**Text: The United States federal government should agree to buy energy at a competitive market rate from private companies that develop space based solar power.**
**CP creates a market for SBSP allowing for quick development**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">NSSO 7</span>**(The National Security Space Office is part of the DoD, 10.10.7, <[[http://spacesolarpower.files.wordpress.com/2007/11/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]>)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Private research could be encouraged...terrestrial solar power systems</span>


**And, guarantees spur private development**
**NSSO ‘7** <span class="DebateSecondaryCiteChar">(The National Security Space Office is part of the DoD, 10.10.7, <</span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://spacesolarpower.files.wordpress.com/2007/11/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span><span class="DebateSecondaryCiteChar">>)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Public/private partnerships are...terms of financings.</span>


=Kritiks= 
==Cap k== 
**Capitalism’s constant need for expansion drives space exploration and development**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dickens 10</span>** (Peter Dickens– Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex “The Humanization of the Cosmos – To What End?” November 2010 .< [[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]]> )

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Instead of indulging...</span>useful at this point.

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Capitalism will annihilate the planet. It’s a try or die for the alternative</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sullivan ‘06</span>** (Charles, Free lance writer for Information Clearing House. “Scared Ecology and Capitalism” [[http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article13515.htm]] )

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Whereverthe extractive...forgive us this trespass?</span>



**Alternative Text: Scream NO in the face of capitalism**

**Our negation is a refusal to engage in the bourgeois society the way we’ve been told to. We scream “NO” in this space, in this moment, we are NOT going to do what the capitalist society expects of us. This negation is revolutionary and is embodiment of dignity in the face of oppression. We must start from pure negation if we hope to create new possibilities.**

**Holloway 2010** **<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">John, Professor at the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla,Mexico, “Crack Capitalism”, pg. 17-20) IG</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Imagine a sheet of ice covering</span>...subject matter of theory that is left.

==Security k== 
**(Link)**

**Securitization of space reduces all life to bare minimum – enables biopolitical extermination**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Raymond </span>**Duvall**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Prrofessor of political science @ University of Minnesota, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Dr. Jonathan </span>**Havercroft**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, professor of political science @ Oklahoma University, October 20</span>**06**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weapons and Empire of the Future” http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=1&fid=2185920&jid=RIS&volumeId=34&issueId=04&aid=2185916</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Each of the three forms of __space .............__</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">would be an understatement!</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Security discourse creates a false reality that must be achieved my extermination of a threatening “Other”, which transcends any sort of normal war</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Friis 2k</span>** (Karsten, UN Sector at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,”)


<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The problem with societal securitization ….where truth is never questioned.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alternative – Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous 8</span>** (Mark, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, “Critique of Security”, 185-6
)

The only way out<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> of such a dilemma, ….. us to be brave enough to return the gift."' </span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NC Overview</span>=== 
Realism justifies nuclear first use as the ultimate deterrent- we’ll destroy until there’s no threats left
George ’94 (Jim, Senior lecturer in international relations in the Department of Political Science, Australian National University, “Discourses of Global Politics: A Critical (Re)Introduction to International Relations,” p. 100,)
Throughout the behavioralist period the issue of nuclear war loomed large. [ … ] rational deductive approaches and game-theorized models derived largely from neoclassical economic theory and utilitarian assump¬tions about human nature and behavior.51

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Security K-2NC Chernus]]2NC Chernus</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their constant obsession with the bomb causes them to be tied to it and its eventual use</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chernus, 86</span>** (Ira Chernus. professor of religious studies university of Colorado at boulder.
University of South Caroline 1986 “Dr. Strangegod.” Page 153-156//ts)

Moreover, even if we could imagine the reality of nuclear war in purely literal terms […] the first step is to understand that the reality we must imagine is largely a symbolic reality that crosses the line between literalism and fantasy.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That guarantees extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chernus 86</span>**, Ira, professor of religious studies university of Colorado at Boulder, “Dr. Strangegod: on the symbolic meaning of nuclear weapons” 1986 WM, TH
Machines must inevitably see all the world as a machine: […] the symbolism of the Bomb as God, which makes nuclear weapons so attractive to us, reinforces the tendency toward numbing, and numbing reinforces our

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Security K-2NC Framework]]2NC Framework</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Role playing bad]– putting yourself in the hypothetical position of power spurs a violent psychology of violence. The aff becomes drunk with power and attempts to place a stranglehold on that power.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Role confusion – their utopian role playing causes them to confuse their roles with those of actual policy makers – this disempowers them – vote neg to revive individual agency</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappeler, 95</span>** (Susanne is an associate professor at al-akhawayn university, “the will to violence: the politics of personal behavior”, pg. 10-11)

Which is why many of those not yet entirely disillusioned with politics tend to engage in a form of mental deputy politics, in the style of ‘What would I do if I were the [… ] in the way we shape ‘our feelings, our relationships, our values’ according to the structures and the values of war and violence.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reliance on the state constructs the affirmative as a protection racket that attempts to legitimize exploitation and militarism through false rationalization to exhort the ballot</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Peterson 92</span>**
[V. Spike Peterson, “Gendered States: Feminist (re)visions of International Relations Theory”, p. 1992, p. 51-52,]
What do we know about large-scale protection systems? Defining a racketeer as […] Protection systems also distort the meaning or “consent” by both mystifying the violence that backs up the systemic inequality and perpetuating the illusion or equality among parties to “contractual obligations.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, reps come first</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Crawford, 02</span>** – PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ (Neta, Argument and Change in World Politics, 2002 p. 19-21)

Coherent arguments are unlikely to take place unless [ … ] But, as Rodger Payne suggests, “No frame is an omnipotent persuasive tool that can be decisively wielded by norm entrepreneurs without serious political wrangling.” Hence framing is a meta-

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Security K-2NC Threats Real]]2NC Threats Real</span>=== 
3. And, Even if they win that their impacts are real, it only masks the root cause—questioning the securitization of the 1AC solves
Mack, former prof, 91—former prof at Harvard Medical School. MD in Psychiatry. (John E., Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59)
Attempts to explore the psychological roots of enmity are frequently met with [ … ] we never see our enemy’s motives and we never labor to asses his will with anything approaching objectivity.”

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Security K-2NC Perm]]2NC Perm</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">6. Cloaking DA - The reasons for pursuing a policy are central to understanding it, we must reject liberal reforms that mask the security apparatus by shifting the frame of debate because they effectively kill critique and sustain security logic.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Burke 2007</span>** (Anthony, Senior Lecturer @ School of Politics & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, 2007, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, p. 3-4,)
These frameworks are interrogated at the level both of their theoretical conceptualisation and their practice: [… ] political and intellectual debate about insecurity, violent conflict and global injustice can become hostage to a claustrophic structure of political and ethical possibility that systematically wards off critique.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">7. Framing DA - Discourse that humanizes security by utilizing it and trying to change it only strengthens the elite strategy that remains within the ontological confines of security sustaining contemporary political order.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Burke 2002</span>** (Anthony, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland , “Aporias of Security”, Questia,)
My particular concern with humanist discourses of security is that, [... ]
through a reading of Hobbes, Locke, the utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, and Hegel, using Foucault's writings on governmental reason as a loose template.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">8. Co-option DA - Orthodox security studies remains a firm hegemony, alternatives that do not challenge disciplinary norms by utilizing the rhetoric of security causes co-option and kills future potential alternatives.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jones 1999</span>** (Richard Wyn is Dr Richard Wyn Jones becomes the Director of the University’s Wales Governance Centre – a key centre for knowledge and research on governance, devolution and constitutional affairs.Derek Jones, Cardiff University’s Director of Business and Strategic Partnerships, formerly the Senior Director of the Welsh Assembly Government. “Security, Strategy and Critical Theory” pg. 145-147. 1999. Questia,)
If this analysis of the conceptualization of the theory-practice nexus in the work of critical theorists is correct, [ ... ] but are also unlikely to share some of the material and professional benefits enjoyed by their less radical colleagues (see, for example, Booth 1997a: 96–97).
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Security K-2NC AT: Case o/w]]2NC AT: Case o/w</span>=== 
That’s the link—the idea that experts can somehow make claims about the world while others can’t maintains security logic—their arguments are empirically denied
Menand 5—PhD from Columbia. Attended Harvard Law for one year. (Louis, 12/5, Everybody's an Expert, The New Yorker,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?printable=true]]</span>)
It is the somewhat gratifying lesson of Philip Tetlock’s new book, “Expert Political Judgment: How Good Is It? How Can We Know?” [... ]
The experts judged the second scenario more likely than the first, even though it required two separate events to occur. Theywere seduced by the detail.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. The aff artificially constructed advantages with random factoids just to make the plan seem like a good idea. This makes solvency a rigged game – vote neg to avoid serial policy failure and error replication</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dillon and Reid, 00</span>** (Michael and Julian, Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency. By: Dillon, Michael, Reid, Julian, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, 03043754, Jan-Mar2000, Vol. 25, Issue 1)
More specifically, where there is a policy problematic there is expertise, and where there is expertise there, too, a policy problematic will emerge. [...] of wealth, opportunity, and mortal danger both locally and globally through the very detailed ways in which life is variously (policy) problematized by it.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Security K-2NC Risk Calculus K]]2NC Risk Calculus K</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Traditional risk assessment strips us of our relations to others and our dignity—this obscures how structural violence contributes to large-scale destruction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">O’Brien 2k</span>**—PhD, environmental scientist and activist (Mary, © 2000, MIT Press, “Making Better Environmental Decisions: An Alternative to Risk Assessment”, Gigapedia, p. xvii-xviii,)
This book is based on the understanding that it is not acceptable for people to tell you that the harms to which they will subject you and the world are safe or insignificant. You deserve to know good alternatives to those harms, and you deserve to help decide which alternative will be chosen. [...] Installing alternatives assessment is one step in the struggle to use information, feeling, and a sense of relationship to others to stop socioenvironmental madness.