<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">[[toc]]
</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Misc</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Contact</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">john's email: [[mailto:johnfspurlock@gmail.com|johnfspurlock@gmail.com]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">jack's email: [[mailto:gubertpea07@gmail.com|gubertpea07@gmail.com]]</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">ATTN</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Due to an emergency, we are no longer competing at Greenhill. If you are hitting us, we will not be competing. We have posted the aff that we were planning on reading at Greenhill. It is not a guarantee that we will read this aff at our next tournament.</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1ACs</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Planned Greenhill 1AC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund and launch the James Webb Space Telescope.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Advantages: Space Leadership, Science</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Harker 1AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund and launch the James Webb Space Telescope.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Contention 1 is solvency</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">JWST will be cut in the status quo – delay kills the program</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Clark 11 (Stephen, writer @ spaceflight now, 7/14/11, http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1107/14jwst/index.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">One week after a House subcommittee […] to gain anything by doing it."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Funding is the only barrier – we have the tech</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Borowitz 11 (Mariel John, research analyst @ space foundation, July 2011, PhD candidate @ university of Maryland, http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Technical performance<span class="underline"> in developing the […] </span>unlocking the secrets of the universe.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Contention 2 is Leadership</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Absent major projects, the US will lose space heg to China</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Shelton and Foland 10 (R.D. Felton – president at World Tech Evaluation Center (WTEC), and P. Foland – researcher @ WTEC, 2/24/10, http://www.usinnovation.org/files/RaceforInnovationRSheltonWTEC.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A simple summary of the current status […] their investments – for even greater benefit to mankind.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We’ll isolate a few internal links</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">First is STEM Education</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">US is losing top STEM students – Webb key to reclaim them</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Overbye 11 (Dennis, writer @ NYT, 7/7/11, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/science/07webb.html?_r=1) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Astronomers reacted with immediate […]<span class="underline"> home in full living color.”</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Funding Webb key visibility of American science leadership – that cause public science engagement</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Discover 11 (7/7/11, http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/cosmicvariance/2011/07/07/james-webb-space-telescope/) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">JWST is a 6.5 meter IR-optimized […]<span class="underline"> scientific leadership in major projects.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Astronomy leadership is key to STEM education</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Blandford et. al 10 – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 103-5]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Astronomy offers a high return <span class="underline">[…] involvement over the coming decade</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">STEM is key to the US economy and competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Augustine 7 (Norman, retired CEO of Lockheed Martin, serves on Pres’s Council of Advisors on Science and Tech, 3/13/7, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/science/hsy33801x.000/hsy33801x_0f.htm) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The United States<span class="underline"> takes deserved pride […]</span> whose economies are growing.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Economic Collapse risk global nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Harris and Burrows 09 PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Of course, the report encompasses […]<span class="underline"> in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space leadership and STEM are key to hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Bell 11 (Larry, prof @ Houston U, director of Sasakawa Intl Center for Space Architectre and grad program, 7/12/11, http://blogs.forbes.com/larrybell/2011/07/12/does-the-united-states-still-care-about-space-leadership/) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">So <span class="underline">what have we really gained […]</span> that’s the sort of people we are.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Second internal link is space leadership</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Webb only needs funding – that solves space and science leadership</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Gough 11 (Myles, writer @ Cosmos Science Magazine, 7/21/11, http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/online/4541/will-cost-kill-hubble%E2%80%99s-successor?page=0%2C0) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">"Such a proposal threatens American leadership […] see the mission through."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Plan’s key to the __perception__ of space leadership</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Illingworth 11 (Garth, PhD in astronomy & astrophysics @ Australia National U, Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics Astronomer, UC Observatories/Lick Observatory,1/21/11, www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The<span class="underline"> James </span>Webb<span class="underline"> Space Telescope</span> […] the perspective of the JSTAC.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Third internal link is science diplomacy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Science leadership is critical to science diplomacy which solves wars, the economy, and the environment</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Dr. Federoff 8 (Nina, Sec of State, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg41470/html/CHRG-110hhrg41470.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Chairman Baird, Ranking Member […] advance U.S. interests in foreign policy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Fourth internal link is soft power</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Science leadership solves every impact – also key to soft power</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Coletta 9 (Damon, PhD in Poli Sci @ Duke, Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard, Assoc Prof of Geopolitics & National Security Policy @ US Air Force Academy, September 2009, http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/Research%20Papers/2009/09%20Coletta%20Science%20and%20InfluenceINSS(FINAL).pdf.) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Less appreciated is how scientific <span class="underline">[…] U.S. leadership among nations.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Soft power solves extinction – also key to heg</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Nye 8 – distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard [March 7, 2008, Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Security and Smart Power,” http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Etzioni is correct that a successful policy<span class="underline"> […]</span> pages developing one for Iran.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Soft power and tech leadership are the biggest internal to heg in the information age</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Nye 4 (Joseph, former Asst Sec of Defense and Dean of JFK School of govt @ Harvard, 8/2/4, http://hbswk.hbs.edu/archive/4290.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The conditions for<span class="underline"> projecting </span>soft power <span class="underline">[…] the significance of soft power.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Heg de-escalates conflicts and prevents great power wars</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Thayer 6 (Bradley A. Thayer, November/December, 2006 “In Defense of Primacy,” NATIONAL INTEREST Issue 86)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability <span class="underline">[…]</span> humanitarian missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Collapse causes multiple nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Arbatov 7 (Alexei, corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” Russia in Global Affairs, No. 2, July-September 2007, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">However, the low probability […]<span class="underline"> capitals of the world.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Advantage 2 is science</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Scenario 1 is astrophysics</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">JWST is critical to astrophysics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Illingworth 11 (Garth, PhD in astronomy & astrophysics @ Australia National U, Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics Astronomer, UC Observatories/Lick Observatory, 7/21/11, http://science.nasa.gov/media/medialibrary/2011/07/22/7_21_2011-Illingworth_JWST-Comments_for_APS.pdf.) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">I think its most effective to fight one […]<span class="underline"> or whether it does not.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Astronomy and astrophysics solves warming</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Blandford et. al. 10 – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 114-5]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Astronomy Addresses the Challenges […]<span class="underline"> to great interest in astronomy</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Warming is real & anthropogenic – causes extinction and outweighs every impact</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> Deibel 7 (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Finally, <span class="underline">there is </span>one <span class="underline">major </span>existential <span class="underline">[…] existence of </span>life on this planet.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Webb is key to discovering exoplanets – other telescopes fail</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Mountain 11 (Matt, Director of the Space Telescope Science Institute & Prof of Physics @ Johns Hopkins and Oxford, Space Times Vol. 50 Issue 3, May/June 2011, https://blogs.stsci.edu/newsletter/2011/02/07/the-james-webb-space-telescope%E2%80%94it%E2%80%99s-complicated-but-so-is-leadership/) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The recent release of NASA’s Independent […] If not us, then who?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Webb is the only option for discovering HABITABLE exoplanets – causes future exploration</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Spotts 11 (Pete, staff writer @ Christian Science Monitor, 6/17/11, http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2011/0617/Space-exploration-Will-budget-cuts-stall-search-for-other-Earths) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Never has the young field <span class="underline">[…]</span> designs for the TPF.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">And that sparks a new era of space colonization.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Harrold, 08 – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">With less fanfare than […]<span class="underline"> it's okay to look."</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space colonization solves extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Matheny 7 [Jason G. Matheny, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” December 7, 2007, Risk Analysis: Volume 27, Issue 5, pages 1335–1344, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1539-6924.2007.00960.x/full, DA 7/16/11]//RS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">As for astronomical […] setback compared to extinction.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2ACs</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Harker</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2AC China Relats Add-on</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Science leadership is key to US-Sino relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Pickering and Agre 10 (Thomas R. Pickering – chairs advisory council of Civilian R&D Fund, former undersecretary of state and Peter Agre – physician @ Johns Hopkins, pres of American Assoc. for the Advancement of Science, 2/20/10, http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2010/feb/20/science-diplomacy-aids-conflict-reduction/) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Over two foggy days in […] United States by an average of 23 points.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">China cooperation solves multiple scenarios for planetary destruction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Cohen 9 (William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense, Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf]] //ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The evolution of <span class="underline">Sino-U.S. relations </span>[…] inevitable, is indispensable</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2AC Spending</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Spending coming now – its good for the economy – empirics prove it wont cause a crash </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">NYT 9/11 (http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/u/united_states_economy/economic_stimulus/index.html) JPG</span>
<span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Since the economy began […] maintaining America’s competitiveness.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Webb creates jobs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Bullock 9/6 (James, physics and astronomy prof @ UC Irvine, & director @ So Cal Center for Galaxy Evolution, 2011, http://articles.latimes.com/2011/sep/06/opinion/la-oe-bullock-hubble-telescope-20110906) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The price tag is […] edge of the universe itself.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Jobs are key to the economy – spending is key to avoid economic collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Morrison 7/10 (Dennis, noted Jamaican economist, http://jamaica-gleaner.com/gleaner/20110710/cleisure/cleisure4.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">An extremely <span class="underline">poor</span> US <span class="underline">job […] the Great Depression.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Plan only costs 1.5 billion – most of the moneys already been spent</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Turner 11 (Michael, director @ KAvli Inst. For Cosmological Physics @ Chicago u, 7/15/11, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">http://www.npr.org/2011/07/15/138164326/funding-for-james-webb-space-telescope-in-jeopardy) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">5Maybe I could put […]<span class="underline"> more money to get this done.</span></span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">2AC Nietzsche</span></span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Nietzschean criticism causes a retreat from politics – the aff can still critique enlightenment reasoining</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Rorty 1999 (Richard, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Virginia, Philosophy and Social Hope, pp. xiv)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The suggestion that everything […] of a secular culture.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Nietzsche misconceives the political – it can be positive and is necessary to alt solvency and freedom</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Lawrence J. Biskowski, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Georgia, 1995, Politics Versus Aesthetics: Arendt’s Critiques of Nietzsche and Heidegger, The Review of Politics, Vol. 57, No. 1, Winter 1995, pg 67-68</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Arendt's critical stance toward […] religion and then science.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Turns the kritik and causes slavery and imperialist wars</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Boggs 2k (CAROL BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 00, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">But it is a very deceptive […]<span style="color: black;"> muddling-through theories. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Ontology is not reality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Jarvis 2K<span class="underline">(Darryl S. L., Assoc. Prof. of Public Policy at Univ. of Singapore, //International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism,//, pp. 199-200)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">As scholars <span class="underline">reconstituted under […]</span> with those close at hand?'</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2AC ESA</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">ESA doesn’t have the tech – only building the launch mechanism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Gough 11 (Myles, writer @ Cosmos Science Magazine, 7/21/11, http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/online/4541/will-cost-kill-hubble%E2%80%99s-successor?page=0%2C0) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">"It will either be a […]</span> aboard an Ariane 5 rocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Europe doesn’t have infrared tech – US key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hirata 11 (Christopher, asst. prof of astrophysics @ Cal Tech, 1/5/11, http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/cosmicvariance/2011/01/03/trouble-for-dark-energy-space-mission/) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">As for your headline […] unconstrained speculation …</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Infra-red is key to solve </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hennig 6 (Reiner, prof of astronomy @ <span class="st">Goethe-Schule Neu-Isenburg, 2006, </span>http://esamultimedia.esa.int/docs/edu/HerschelPlanck/EN_06_HERSCHEL_Hennig.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">When we use our eyes</span> or use […] Earth (keyword: ‘cosmological redshift’).</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2AC Private CP</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">NASA is key to solvency and leadership – privates fail</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Bell 11 (Larry, prof @ Houston U, director of Sasakawa Intl Center for Space Architectre and grad program, 7/12/11, http://blogs.forbes.com/larrybell/2011/07/12/does-the-united-states-still-care-about-space-leadership/) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">David properly noted a contradiction […] than our current situation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Privates don’t solve leadership – perm solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Coletta 9 (Damon, PhD in Poli Sci @ Duke, Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard, Assoc Prof of Geopolitics & National Security Policy @ US Air Force Academy, September 2009, http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/Research%20Papers/2009/09%20Coletta%20Science%20and%20InfluenceINSS(FINAL).pdf.) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">True, private companies in […]<span class="underline"> long- term, fundamental research.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Privates fail – collaboration between governments is key to Webb technology</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">RAL 7 (Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, 2007, http://www.sstd.rl.ac.uk/Features/MIRI.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The Near Infra-Red Camera […] scientists wish to observe.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">NASA key to infrared</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Science Daily 11 (6/17/11, http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/06/110617175640.htm) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The first six of 18 segments that […] mirror grinding and polishing.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Privatization doesn’t avoid coercion, the public sector has already funded the basis for privatization</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Gagnon 4 (Bruce Gagnon is the coordinator for Global Network Against Weapons & Nuclear Power in Space, Impact Press, Fall, http://www.impactpress.com/articles/augsep04/space8904.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">When the United Nations concluded <span class="underline">[…]</span> our "collective investment."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2AC SKFTA</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Wont pass – not enough Republican support</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hooper 9/10 (Molly, writer @ The Hill, http://thehill.com/homenews/house/180751-obama-backed-trade-pacts-could-be-heavy-lift-for-house-gop?page=2#comments) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">But nearly <span class="underline">20 House GOP freshmen […]</span> are senior members,” the source said.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Neither are Dems</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Palmer 9/20 (Doug, writer @ Reuters, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/20/us-usa-trade-congress-idUSTRE78J6FU20110920) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">U.S. Senate <span class="underline">Democrats banded […]</span> is in the White House.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hoyer loves the plan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Skalski 11 (Liz, writer @ Gazette, 7/22/11, http://www.gazette.net/article/20110722/NEWS/707229666/1033/james-webb-space-telescope-may-stay-grounded-aborting-jobs&template=gazette) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">“There is nothing currently in space […] is cheaper.”</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hoyer is key to every agenda item – both sides love him</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Lillis and Cusack 11 (Mike and Bob, writers @ the hill, 4/22/11, http://thehill.com/homenews/house/157175-obama-hoyer-bond-forms-as-pelosi-rejects-budget-deal?page=3#comments) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">This year’s <span class="underline">budget battles </span>have forged a […] <span class="underline">bipartisan</span> members in Congress.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Major support for Webb</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Thomas 9/2 (Jeff, writer @ Boulder Country Business Report, http://www.bcbr.com/article.asp?id=59528) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">With NASA scrambling this […] next 20 years," he said.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Obama isnt spending capital on SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Kleckner 9/14 (Dean, writer @ Washington Times, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/sep/14/obama-deliberately-kills-jobs/) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">In his jobs speech last week, President […] about what must be done “right away.”</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2AC XO</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">CP causes congressional backlash – constellation proves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Whittington 11. [Mark, “White House and Congress Clash Over NASA Funding, Space Cooperation with China” Yahoo News May 8]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="UnderlineBold">The distrust Congress holds toward […] </span>part of the president.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Presidential leadership is a myth – plan triggers backlash</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">McCurdy 7 (Professor Howard E., Chair of the School of Public Affairs – American University, “Congress and America’s Future in Space: Pie in the Sky or National Imperative?”, Wilson Center Congress Project, 5-14, http://www.wilsoncenter.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=topics.event_summary&event_id=201072&topic_id=1412)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Professor Howard E. McCurdy […]<span class="underline"> death in Congress.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="StyleUnderlineChar">5.</span> Executive action inevitably draws legislators into the process</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Michael J. Foley (professor of International Politics at the University of Wales)and John E. Owens (Senior Lecturer in US Politics at the University of Westminister) Congress and the Presidency, 1996, p. 387</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Second, the new ways in which […]<span class="StyleUnderlineChar"> opposing sides </span>and drew in legislators<span class="StyleUnderlineChar">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A) XOs kill SOP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Ronald Turner, University of Alabama School of Law professor, JOURNAL OF LAW & POLITICS, Winter 1996, p. 1. (DRGCL/E264)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The increased and aggressive <span class="underline">presidential […]</span> particular political party or ideology."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">B) collapse of SoP outweighs nuclear war and turns the net benefit</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Redish and Cisar 91 [Martin H., Prof of Law and Public Policy @ Northwestern, and Elizabeth J., Law Clerk to Chief Judge William Bauer, “If Angels Were to Govern,” 41 Duke L.J. 449, ln]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">In any event, the political history […]<span class="underline"> be forced into the position of saying, "I told you so</span>."</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2AC Consult NATO</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">No net benefit – empirics disprove lack of consultation kills the alliance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Slocombe 10 (WALTER B. SLOCOMBE June 2010 PERSPECTIVE Towards A New NATO Strategic Concept A View from the United States http://library.fes.de/pdf-files/id/ipa/07299.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">NATO remained at the center of […] the US. with other partners.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Non-binding consultation can solve the net benefit and our turns</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Daily Oklahoman 1 (6-12-2001)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">WITH his arrival in Spain this […] feathers along the way.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">NATO is militarily useless—ending US participation is key to a transition to a stable European military power</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Carpenter, 09 (Ted Galen Carpenter, Ph.D., is the vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “NATO at 60: A Hollow Alliance,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa635.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">Although NATO […] </span>increasingly dysfunctional alliance.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Consultation kills heg</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Carroll 9 (James FF, Notes & Comments Editor – Emory International Law Review, J.D. with Honors – Emory University School of Law, “//Emory International Law Review//, 23 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 167) ET</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">n221. See Thomas […] et al. eds., 1992). See also Khalilzad, supra note 177.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Kills coop with China</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Heisbourg 6( Special adviser at the Fondation pour la Recherche Strategique, 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Francois, Paris, “Why Nato needs to be less ambitious,” Financial Times, 11/22/06, lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Yet it is as clear that […] in search of a problem.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">China cooperation solves multiple scenarios for planetary destruction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Cohen 9 (William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense, Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf]] //ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The evolution of <span class="underline">Sino-U.S. […]</span> require their cooperation.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; text-decoration: none;">2AC India CP</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">NASA is key to solve – other space agencies don’t have the tech</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Gough 11 (Myles, writer @ Cosmos Science Magazine, 7/21/11, http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/online/4541/will-cost-kill-hubble%E2%80%99s-successor?page=0%2C0) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">"It will either be a NASA […]</span> aboard an Ariane 5 rocket.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Only the US has the tech for infra-red light</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Sac Bee 9/13 (Sacramento Bee, best newspaper around, http://www.sacbee.com/2011/09/13/3906570/nasas-webb-telescope-completes.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">NASA's</span> James <span class="underline">Webb</span> Space <span class="underline">Telescope</span> […]executed without a single failure."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Infra-red is key to solve adv 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hennig 6 (Reiner, prof of astronomy @ <span class="st">Goethe-Schule Neu-Isenburg, 2006, </span>http://esamultimedia.esa.int/docs/edu/HerschelPlanck/EN_06_HERSCHEL_Hennig.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">When we use our eyes</span> or use […] (keyword: ‘cosmological redshift’).</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; text-decoration: none;">2AC Heidegger</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Alt cedes the political by focusing on me-search rather than research – better to evaluate the consequences of individual actions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Chandler 9 (David Chandler is Professor of International Relations at the University of Westminster, “Questioning Global Political Activism”, //What is Radical Politics Today?,// Edited by Jonathan Pugh, pp. 81-2)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Today more and more people […] debate and organisation.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Turns the kritik and causes slavery and imperialist wars</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Boggs 2k (CAROL BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 00, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">But it is a very deceptive and […]<span style="color: black;"> Burkean muddling-through theories.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Perm solves – pragmatism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Murray 97 (Alastair J.H., Politics Department, University of Wales Swansea, //Reconstructing Realism// p. 202-3)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">If the cosmopolitan communitarian debate […]<span class="underline"> succeed in reconciling our ideals with our pragmatism.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Their alternative fails—security can’t be deconstructed—some threats are real, scenario planning is the most ethical option</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Weaver 2k - Ole International relations theory and the politics of European integration, p. 284-285</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The other main possibility is to stress' […] escalations, violence and mutual vilification.</span>



=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">DAs</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space Debris</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Scientists agree – we’re at the tipping point for space debris – Chinese ASAT test and satellite collisions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Amos 9/1 (Jonathan, science correspondent, BBC News, “space junk at tipping point, says report,” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-14757926)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Scientists in the US have <span class="underline">[…]</span> who led the research.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">__Every__ launch creates more debris – don’t risk triggering the link</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">ASA 7 (Australian Space Academy, “briefing on space law,” http://www.spaceacademy.net.au/spacelaw/spacelaw.htm)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Since the start of the space […]<span class="underline"> collision hazards to active spacecraft.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space debris tanks the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Ansdell 10 (Megan, PhD Candidate @ GWU, “active space debris removal,” princeton publications, http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Although the probability of […] networks, and global communications (Pace 2009).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Global nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Harris and Burrows 9 (PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Of course, the report encompasses more […]<span class="underline"> in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span></span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC Impact Overview</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">DA turns case – two reasons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A. Collisions – space debris causes everything that we launch to crash</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Williams 10 (Lynda, MS in physics @ Santa Rose, “irrational dreams of space colonization,” peace review 22.1, spring 2010)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Since the space race began […] place without risk of destruction.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">B. Perception of space debris makes space economically impossible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Broad 7 (William, Pulitzer prize winning science author, “orbiting junk, once a nuisance, is now a threat,” NYT, proquest)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">In an interview, Mr. <span class="underline">Kessler</span> […]<span class="underline"> to do business in space</span>.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space debris outweighs military threats</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Johnson 8 (John, staff, “increase in space debris poses risk,” LA times, http://articles.latimes.com/2008/apr/16/science/sci-spacejunk16)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A successful Chinese missile test last […]<span class="underline"> easy to spot the Chinese readying a launch</span>.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC Hegemony Impact</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space debris decks hegemony – economic overstretch, satellites dependency</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Imburgia 11 (Joseph, Lt. Col. in USAF, went to law school @ U of Tennessee, “space debris and its threat to national security: a proposal for a binding international agreement to clean up the junk,” online)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">These gloomy prognostications about the <span class="underline">[…] of these space capabilities should also be vital</span>.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC Warming Impact</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Satellites key to solve warming</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Lewis 10 (James Andrew, Dir. and Sen. Fellow of Tech @ CSIS, PhD @ Chicago U, 6/9/10, http://csis.org/publication/climate-change-and-earth-observation-executive-summary) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Until this year, America’s civil […] billion in the last decade.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">SKFTA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Shell - Harker</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">SKFTA will pass and its key to the alliance – Obama’s capital is key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Kim 9/6 (Sukhan, senior partner specializing in international trade at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, http://koreajoongangdaily.joinsmsn.com/news/article/Article.aspx?aid=2941157) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The time has come for political […]<span class="underline"> with ratification of Korus</span> FTA. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Changing NASA policy spends political capital</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Conley 10 (University of Florida political science professor & Cobb, University of Florida PhD candidate, 10) [Richard S. & Wendy Whitman, APSA 2010 Annual Meeting Paper, “The Perils of Presidential Leadership on Space Policy: The Politics of Congressional Budgeting for NASA, 1958-2008”, p. 10-11, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1642810, accessed 7-1-11]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Presidential Leadership, Congressional Funding, and the […] the Office of Management and Budget.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The alliance solves warming – spurs cooperation on green development</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Snyder, Center for US-Korea Policy director, 9</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">(Scott, dir of the Center for U.S.-Korea Policy, senior associate of Washington programs in the IR program of The Asia Foundation, April, "Pursuing a Comprehensive Vision for the U.S. - South Korea Alliance," [https://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090409_snyder_pursuingcompvision_web.pdf, accessed 6-3-11, jm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">An emergingarea of cooperation in the <span class="underline">[…]</span> in Copenhagen in December 2009.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Warming causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Tickell 8 (Oliver, Environmental Researcher, The Guardian, August 11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange, JMB, accessed 6-23-11)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We need to get prepared for four […] us towards a similar hothouse Earth.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">CPs</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Code of Conduct</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Text: The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space. The United States federal government should create enforcement mechanisms and transparency and verification measures for every country that agrees to the Code of Conduct.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Code of conduct solves better than the aff – prevents weaponization and space war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Krepon & Black 9 (Michael, co founder of the stimson center, director of the space security project, Samuel, research associate @ Stimson center, “space security or anti-satellite weapons,” pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">An alternative approach to space security […]<span class="underline"> in harmful interference against satellites</span>.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC Doesn't Link To Politics</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">CP dodges politics – executive agreements are distinct from treaties and do not require Congress</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Black 8 (Samuel, Research Associate @ Stimson Center, works in space security and south asia programs, “no harmful interference with space objects: the key to confidence building,” http://www.stimson.org/books-reports/no-harmful-interference-with-space-objects-the-key-to-confidence-building)JFS</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">U.S. law makes a peculiar distinction […]</span>consent to the ratification of the treaty.25 </span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC AT: Treaty Better</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The Code of Conduct would avoid difficulties involved in treaties</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">__Krepon and Black 10__[Michael Krepon, MA from Johns Hopkins University and co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Samuel Black, research associate at the Stimson Institute, 12/17/10, “An International Code of Conduct for Responsible Space-Faring Nations”, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/An_International_Code_of_Conduct_for_-Responsible_Space-Faring_Nations.pdf] AS</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A Code of Conduct approach could avoid […] absence of standards for responsible behavior__.__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The Code of Conduct is better than a treaty</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Foust 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">(Dr. Jeff Foust, March 7, 2011, Writer for the Space Review and an aerospace analyst, Debating a acode fo conduct for space, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1794/1]]) (RW)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Given that the EU Code carries less […] could, but it’s more difficult.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Code of conduct solves better than a treaty, quicker and more effective</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">__Krepon 07__ co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center (non- profit public policy think tank about reducing threats from weapons of mass destruction, enhancing regional security, and strengthening institutions for national and international security], his most recent books are “Cooperative Threat Reduction, Missile Defense,” and the “Nuclear Future and Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space.” (Summer 2007, Michael, Disarmament Times, “Assuring Space Security: A Code of Conduct for Space,” [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=76%3Adt2007summerKrepon&catid=60%3Adt2007summer&Itemid=2]] AVB] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Satellites have become essential for national […] approach to space security.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Executive Order</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Executive Orders have the force of legislation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Kenneth <span class="tagChar">Mayer</span>, Professor of Political Science @ the University of Wisconsin-Madison, <span class="tagChar">2001</span>, With the Stroke of a Pen</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">These chronicles of presidential decisiveness […] in many cases disturbing.” </span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC AT: Courts Rollback</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Court won’t roll back</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Turner (Professor of Political Science at Alabama, Journal of Law and Politics) 1996 (Ronald, Winter)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Although Congress is the only […] __by the Supreme Court.__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">No court overrule – the executive has to enforce court decisions, and he wouldn’t enforce this one</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Moe and Howell (Stanford political science professor and Hoover Institution fellow and PhD. Student) 1999 (Terry M. and William G., PRESIDENTIAL STUDIES QUARTERLY, December 1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">In addition to […] __institution are put seriously at risk.__</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC AT: Links to Politics</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Executive orders reduce expenditure of political capital – Clinton proves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Kassop 2 [Nancy, Chair of the Political Science Department @ State University of New York, __The Presidency and the Law: The Clinton Legacy__, ed. Alder, p. 6]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">__As a president facing an opposition […] political capital on to accomplish directly.__ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Executive orders attract no Congressional battles</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Moe and Howell 99 (Terry M and William G., senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and Associate Professor in the Government Department at Harvard University, “Unilateral Action and Presidential Power: A theory”, Presidential Studies Quarterly 29.4, December 1999)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Our aim here is to highlight an […] central to the modern presidency.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Increase</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">a. interpretation – Increase is to make larger</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">American Heritage Dictionary 1(American Heritage Dictionary www.answers.com/topic/increase ,2/1/2001 , DA 6/20/11, OST)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">To become greater or larger</span>. To multiply; reproduce.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">b. violation – the aff signs a treaty that bans space weapons – that does not increase exploration or development</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">c. standards</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">ground – we base DA links on an increase in space exploration – they sign a treaty that ensures other nations we will not go to space – cross-x proves the plan is anti-topical</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">limits – there are hundreds of treaties that have been proposed for space – we cannot be prepared to answer all of them – creates an unfair research burden that kills debate</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">voting issue for competitive equity</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Vagueness</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">They must specify the mechanism for ORS implementation – the term ‘ORS’ is vague</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Larrimore, 07– Lt Col, USAF (April, Scott C., Air Force Fellows Air University, “Operationally Responsive Space: A New Paradigm or Another False Start?” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)RK</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A sampling of these writings […] space situational awareness6 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Standards – </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1. Ground – if we don’t know what the aff does, research for politics links and counterplan competition is impossible – their vague argument is impossible to answer</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2. Education – if we have a debate about general policies instead of specific solvency debates about policy, we won’t learn anything specific about the topic</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Voting issue</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Case</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Advantages</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC ISR Advantage</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">ISR doesn't solve war and it prompts attacks by our enemies</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">__Boot, 2006__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Max Boot. FALL 2006. senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, a columnist for the Los Angeles Times, and a contributing editor to The Weekly Standard. The Paradox of Military Technology. http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/the-paradox-of-military-technology</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Taken together, <span class="Underline">the changes in military […] communicating via messenger</span>s, not cell phones</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">ISR fails – no technology</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">__GAO, 2004__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">GAO. July 2004. United States Government Accountability Office. The Global Information Grid and Challenges Facing Its Implementation. http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d04858.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Underline">Building a reliable, secure network that […]</span> and protect the network and its data. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">ISR pisses off China</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Clay __Wilson__, Specialist in Technology and National Security Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, __07__ [“Network Centric Operations: Background and Oversight Issues for Congress”, CRS report for Congress, march 15, pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">NCO Technology Transfer<span class="Underline">The global diffusion of […]</span> increase their set of job skills.161 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">IPv6 means ISR fails</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Clay __Wilson__, Specialist in Technology and National Security Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, __07__ [“Network Centric Operations: Background and Oversight Issues for Congress”, CRS report for Congress, march 15, pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Possible Vulnerabilities U.<span class="Underline">S. military forces, to save […]interfere with U.S. military communications.</span></span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC China Advantage</span>==== 
<span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">China’s rise doesn’t lead to war – empirics, economics, regionalism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">Nye 11</span>(Joseph, Harvard Proffessor, Foreign Policy, “China’s Rise Doesn’t Mean War”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/unconventional_wisdom?page=0,3)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">Thucydides</span> famously <span class="underline">attributed the Peloponnesian War […]</span> make ourselves safer by being wary of fear itself. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Diplomacy and soft responses to China are better</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hagt 7 (Eric, director of the China Program @ World Security Institute, “Chin’as ASAT Test: Strategic Response,” http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_3.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">Even if</span> we are facing the worst […] sacrifice will be essential.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We’re stronger than China – the aff is a self-fulfilling prophecy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Drezner 11 (Daniel, professor of international politics at Tufts University's Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, “…And China Isn’t Beating the U.S., http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/unconventional_wisdom?page=0,4)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">China is a great power</span> in every […] a political cocktail as fear and panic. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Plan ensures China war that escalates to full destruction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Krepon 3 (Michael, with Christopher Clary, prez of the Stimson Center, “Space Assurance or Space Dominance?”, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">More definition can be provided to […] concerned about collateral damage.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Perception of the plan triggers China war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Martel and Yoshihara 3(William – Natl security prof @ Naval War College & Toshi, Research fellow @ Inst. For Foreign Policy Analysis, Fall 2003, http://www.cfr.org/china/washington-quarterly-averting-sino-us-space-race/p12158) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Strategists in<span class="underline"> the United States […]</span> for their economic well-being.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">No China space war – many factors</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">MacDonald 11 (Bruce, Testimony Before the us-china economic and security review commission on the implications of china’s military and civil space program, us institute of peace, pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">In the face of this growing Chinese […]</span> miscalculation or distraction. </span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Space Power Advantage</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">terrestrial power is more important</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Elhefnawy 10 (Nader, BA in IR from Florida U, writes extensively on space security issues, originally in PARAMETERS spring 03, “Four Myths About Space Power”, http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">While <span class="underline">space power</span> is crucial to […] the battlespace and strike with precision. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space power can’t solve war – leads to arms racing and conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Elhefnawy 10 (Nader, BA in IR from Florida U, writes extensively on space security issues, originally in PARAMETERS spring 03, “Four Myths About Space Power”, http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">A common feature of scenarios </span>[…]<span class="underline"> and bolder</span> in the years to come.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC Space Power Advantage</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space power is __useless__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A. special forces</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Elhefnawy 10 (Nader, BA in IR from Florida U, writes extensively on space security issues, originally in PARAMETERS spring 03, “Four Myths About Space Power”, http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">One way is through special forces […] could accomplish given the chance. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">B. submarines</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Elhefnawy 10 (Nader, BA in IR from Florida U, writes extensively on space security issues, originally in PARAMETERS spring 03, “Four Myths About Space Power”, http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">A second method is</span> to emphasize submarine <span class="underline">[…]will only enhance such prospects.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">C. air defense systems</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Elhefnawy 10 (Nader, BA in IR from Florida U, writes extensively on space security issues, originally in PARAMETERS spring 03, “Four Myths About Space Power”, http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">A third way is to create </span>air defense systems<span class="underline"> […]</span> methods are used to attack conventional forces. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">D. Our enemies can outmaneuver missile defense</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Elhefnawy 10 (Nader, BA in IR from Florida U, writes extensively on space security issues, originally in PARAMETERS spring 03, “Four Myths About Space Power”, http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A fourth method is to recognize that […] to be taken to an extreme. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hegemony can’t solve war – deterrence theory doesn't account for internal conflicts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Conry 97 (Barbara, Foreign Policy Analyst – Cato, Policy Analysis No. 267, 2-5, “U.S. ‘Global Leadership’: A Euphemism for World Policeman,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-267.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Other <span class="underline">proponents of</span> U.S. political and […] Somalia and Bosnia. [59]</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Solvency</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Brilliant Pebbles Solvency Frontline</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">SMD has no deterrence value</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Butt 10 – Yousaf Butt, nuclear physicist and is currently serving as a scientific consultant to the Federation of American Scientists on missile defense, 5-8-2010, “The myth of missile defense as a deterrent,” The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-myth-of-missile-defense-deterrent</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Second, __even if reducing the U.S. stockpile […]__ aircraft carrier's anchor chain.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">SMD fails – no tech and doesn't protect</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Johnson-Freese and Nichols 10 - Joan Johnson-Fresse, chair of the Department of National Security Studies at the Naval War College, Thomas Nichols, Professor of National Security Affairs at the United States Naval War College, “Space, Stability and Nuclear Strategy: Rethinking Missile Defense,” China Security 2010, issue 17, http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=470&Itemid=8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">__Challenges and risks associated with missile […]__ and __virtually impossible to stop.__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Defensive ICBMs solve the aff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Kleppner and Lamb et. Al 5 - Daniel Kleppner, Lester Wolfe Professor Emeritus of Physics at MIT, Frederick K Lamb, D.Phil. in theoretical physics from Oxford University, 2-16-05, “Report of theAmerican Physical Society Study Group on Boost-Phase Intercept</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Systems for National Missile Defense: Scientiﬁc and Technical Issues,” The American Physical Society, http://www.aps.org/about/pressreleases/upload/BPI_Report.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">While boost-phase intercept would not be […] the Airborne Laser's Capabilities</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The physicists that worked on SMD concluded it won’t work and that it can only shoot down one missile</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Hitchens 4 - Theresa Hitchens, vice president and director of the Space Security Project at the Center for Defense Information, 7-21-04, “Space-Based Missile Defense: Not So Heavenly,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Proliferation Brief Volume 6 Number 13, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2003/07/24/space-based-missile-defense-not-so-heavenly/b9d</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> A recent study by an illustrious panel […] __the cost (more than $198 billion__ or more than $99 billion).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Ground based missile defense solves the aff in the status quo —</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">DeBlois et al 4--- Bruce DeBlois is Director of Systems Integration at BAE Systems and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, Richard Garwin is IBM Fellow Emeritus at the Research Center of IBM and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, and Scott Kemp is a Fulbright Fellow to the European Union and research staff at the Program on Science and Global Security at Princeton University, Jeremy C. Marwell is a Furman Scholar at the New York University School of Law, Fall 2004, “Space Weapons; Crossing the U.S. Rubicon” International Security, Pg. 50</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">As discussed above, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ballistic missiles could […] an electronics-disabling electromagnetic pulse weapon</span>.n74</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC Brilliant Pebbles Solvency Frontline</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">SMD takes too long and is ineffective – they need 1000 interceptors to stop __ONE__ ICBM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Kleppner and Lamb et. Al 5 - Daniel Kleppner, Lester Wolfe Professor Emeritus of Physics at MIT, Frederick K Lamb, D.Phil. in theoretical physics from Oxford University, 2-16-05, “Report of theAmerican Physical Society Study Group on Boost-Phase Intercept Systems for National Missile Defense: Scientiﬁc and Technical Issues,” The American Physical Society, http://www.aps.org/about/pressreleases/upload/BPI_Report.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> __If interceptor rockets were based in […] current U.S. space-launch rates__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">SMD ineffective</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Kosiak 7 – Steven Kosiak, Vice President, Budget Studies, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 10-31-07, Arming the Heavens: A Preliminary Assessment of the Potential Cost and Cost-Effectiveness of Space-Based, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/2007.10.31-Spaced-Based-Weapons.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">__The case for space-based […]__ defeating such a system. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Ground based BMD solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">DeBlois et al 4--- Bruce DeBlois is Director of Systems Integration at BAE Systems and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, Richard Garwin is IBM Fellow Emeritus at the Research Center of IBM and former Senior Fellow of Science and Technology at CFR, and Scott Kemp is a Fulbright Fellow to the European Union and research staff at the Program on Science and Global Security at Princeton University, Jeremy C. Marwell is a Furman Scholar at the New York University School of Law, Fall 2004, “Space Weapons; Crossing the U.S. Rubicon” International Security, Pg. 50</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Space-based interceptors were <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">[…]</span> a ground-based interceptor.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Impact Defense</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Saudi Prolif </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">No Saudi prolif ever—US commitment is solid, no incentive</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Bahgat 06 — director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Indiana University of Pennsylvania, has taught political science and international relations in several universities, author of six books and about 200 scholarly articles, frequent contributor to media outlets including Voice of America and Wall Street Journal, Ph.D., Political Science, Florida State University M.A., Middle Eastern Studies, American University in Cairo B.A., Political Science, Cairo University (Gawdat, Summer 2006, “Nuclear Proliferation: The Case of Saudi Arabia” The Middle East Journal. Vol. 60, Iss. 3; pg. 421, 23 pgs JSTOR) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Fourth, US commitments to defend […] to consider a nuclear option.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">US security commitment key to check Saudi prolif—other internal factors will step in too</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Bahgat 06 — director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Indiana University of Pennsylvania, has taught political science and international relations in several universities, author of six books and about 200 scholarly articles, frequent contributor to media outlets including Voice of America and Wall Street Journal, Ph.D., Political Science, Florida State University M.A., Middle Eastern Studies, American University in Cairo B.A., Political Science, Cairo University (Gawdat, Summer 2006, “Nuclear Proliferation: The Case of Saudi Arabia” The Middle East Journal. Vol. 60, Iss. 3; pg. 421, 23 pgs JSTOR) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The United States' strong commitment […] further validate this proposition.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Indo-Pak War</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Indo-pak war wont escalate</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Eric Vas (retired Lieutenant general) 2007 “Can India Avoid a Military conflict with Pakistan?” http://inpad.org/res45.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Many urge India to stand down […] battle cannot be overruled.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Multiple factors prevent Indo-Pak war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Mohan Malik 2003 The Stability Of Nuclear Deterrence In South Asia, Asian Affairs, Fall</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The presence of nuclear weapons certainly […] secure transport of sensitive items.27</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">India and Pakistan will prevent accidental nuclear launches</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Pyotr Goncharov. 01/25/08. “Is Nuclear Pakistan Really Dangerous?” Russian News and Information Agency. Moscow. http://en.rian.ru/analysis/20080125/97772224.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">A Muslim state with nuclear weapons and […] of reliable nuclear arms control systems.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Diplomacy solves any risk of war.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Seema Guha, Daily News & Analysis, Sep 11, 2007 http://www.dnaindia.com/report.asp?NewsID=1120739</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Despite the upheaval in Pakistan, triggered by […] Loc as a permanent border.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC Syria-Israel</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">TNWs in turkey solve the impact</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Mustafa Kibaroglu, 10 (Ph.D., Professor of International Relations, Bilkent University, June 2010. [Arms Control Today, Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="underline">Turkey has hosted U.S. nuclear weapons […]</span> foreseeable future, the official said.[<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#20|20]]</span>]</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Intel</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Harker</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Rd 1 v. Bay Area Urban Debate League AB</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We were AFF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC - Nietzsche, ESA, Privates CP, Spending</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC - Privates, ESA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NR - Spending, Nietzsche</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NR - Nietzsche</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Rd 2 v. Bay Area Urban Debate League ??</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We were NEG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Their aff was SPT</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC - T-Increase, SKFTA, Code of Conduct, Space Debris</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC - T-Increase, Code of Conduct</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NR - SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NR - T-Increase</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Rd 3 v. Lowell BV</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We were NEG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Their aff was ORS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC - Vagueness, Code of Conduct, Space Debris, XO, SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC - Vagueness, Space Debris</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NR - XO, SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NR - Vagueness</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Rd 4 v. St Francis CR</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We were AFF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC - XO, SKFTA, T-Human, Consult NATO</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC - XO, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NR - SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NR - SKFTA, Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Rd 5 v. St. Vincent De Paul FK</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We were NEG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">They read Brilliant Pebbles SMD</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC - Code of Conduct, XO, SKFTA, Space Debris</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC - XO, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NR - SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NR - SKFTA</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Rd 6 v. Damien MM</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">We were AFF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NC - India CP, Heidegger, SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NC - India CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">1NR - SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">2NR - India CP, SKFTA</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>