=Contact Info= 
[[toc]]
**Email [[mailto:jmill126@gmail.com|jmill126@gmail.com]] for cites.**

**We'll automatically post the 1AC and most 1NC's we read. Any other things specifically requested will be posted.**


=Affirmatives= 
==Asteroid Mining 1AC - Westminster== 

Plan: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should increase its research and development of asteroid mining ventures.

**__Adv 1 – Minerals Shortage__**

**Advantage ONE – Mineral Shortage**

**Supply disruptions are coming – Countries will behave like shortages exist even if they don’t Parthemore 11** - Fellow @ Center for a New American Security. Director of the Natural Security Program [Christine Parthemore (MA from Georgetown’s Security Studies Program), “Elements of Security: Mitigating the Risks of U.S. Dependence on Critical Minerals,” __Center for a New American Security__, June 2011, pg. [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore.pdf/edlee|http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore.pdf//edlee]]]

Assessing U.S. Vulnerability - Analysts vary… __and **job development**__

**AND, The __mere perception__ of one triggers a US crackdown on China**
**Parthemore** **11** - Fellow @ Center for a New American Security. Director of the Natural Security Program [Christine Parthemore (MA from Georgetown’s Security Studies Program), “Elements of Security: Mitigating the Risks of U.S. Dependence on Critical Minerals,” __Center for a New American Security__, June 2011, pg. [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore.pdf/edlee|http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore.pdf//edlee]]]

__Minerals are a… the coming years.__

**That leads to war and complete collapse of the economy – Mineral access is considered a non-negotiable**
**Hinten-Nooijen 10** – Project manager Centre for Science and Values @ Tilburg University [Dr. Annemarie Hinten-Nooijen, “Rare minerals - The treasures of a sustainable economy,” __Asset Magazine__, 25-03-10, pg. http://www.tilburguniversity.edu/nl/over-tilburg-university/cultuur-en-sport/cwl/publicaties/beschouwingen/minerals///edlee]//

//Driving a hybrid car, … our current modern lives//

//**We have two internal links to global nuclear war:**//

//**First is resource wars.**//

//. **There’s __high probability__ that resource wars will go nuclear**//
//**Kugler 06** – Professor of world politics @ Claremont Graduate University [Jacek Kugler (Consultant to the IMF, the World Bank, State Department, and Department of Defense. His publications on the causes and consequences of war use formal modeling and empirical analysis), “The Asian Ascent: Opportunity for Peace or Precondition for War?,” __[[@http://www3.interscience.wiley.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/journal/118516737/home|__International Studies Perspectives__]]__, [[@http://www3.interscience.wiley.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/journal/118606983/issue|Volume 7, Issue 1]], Pages 36-42//edlee

__Given__ __the…__ __a **nuclear war**__

**The miscalc and horizontal escalation risks are high.**
**Mearsheimer 10** – Professor of Political Science @ University of Chicago. [John J. Mearsheimer, “The Gathering Storm: China’s Challenge to US Power in Asia,” __The Chinese Journal of International Politics__, Vol. 3, 2010, 381–396//edlee]//

//The United States… __the__ Asia-Pacific __region__.//

//**Second, is economic collapse.**//

//**A U.S. economic collapse will destroy the global economy**//
//Mead 04 <span style="color: black;">, Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Walter Russell, Foreign Policy,</span>//
//<span style="color: black;">April 1, pg. Lexis) </span>//

//Similarly, in the… is sticky power.//

//<span class="Underline">**Economic Collapse risk global nuclear wars**</span>//
//**<span style="color: black;">Harris and Burrows 09</span>** PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit//
//Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[@http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]//

//<span style="color: black;">Of course, the report…</span>__<span style="color: black;"> dog-eat-dog world.</span>__//

//**Asteroid mining solves the coming minerals crunch**//
//**Sonter 06** - Independent scientific consultant working in the Australian mining and metallurgical industries [Mark Sonter (Former visiting scholar @ University of Arizona who wrote a research thesis on the Technical and Economic Feasibility of Mining the Near-Earth Asteroids), “Asteroid Mining: Key to the Space Economy,” __Ad Astra Online__, February 2006, pg. [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/asteroids/key.html/edlee|http://www.nss.org/settlement/asteroids/key.html//edlee]]]//

//The __Near…__ mines of the 21st century//


//**SCENARIO 2: Space militarization**//

//<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">US is already weaponizing – they are researchering multiple weapons systems</span>**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">Scheetz 06 – </span>**</span><span style="color: black;">co-author of Georgetown International Environmental Law Review (Fall 2006, Lori Scheetz “Infusing Environmental Ethics into the Space Weapons Dialogue,” </span>[[http://www.spacedebate.org/argument/1140/]])//

//<span style="color: black;">Thus far, __research…__</span>__<span style="color: black;"> destroy enemy satellites</span>__<span style="color: black;">.”</span>//

//**NASA-based asteroid mining commercializes of space – The plan prevents the military from monopolizing our space pursuits**//
//**Crandell 11** – MBA, Founder of Space Wealth [William C. Crandell, “Is Profitable Asteroid Mining: A Pragmatic Goal?,” Space Wealth, 23 February 2011, pg. asteroid mining-Is-P@M-Pragmatic-2011-02-23.pdf//edlee]

On the other hand,… **__risk__** over time.”

**Weaponization inevitably leads to miscalculations – causes extinction**
**Mitchell 1** [Gordon R., Associate Professor of Communications @ the University of Pittsburgh, “ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence,” No. 6]

__A buildup of space… conflict ever seen.__

**__Adv 2 –__** **__Colonization__**

**Advantage Two – Colonization**

**Global consumption rates place human survival at risk. Extinction is inevitable unless get off the rock**
**Reilly 10** [Michael Reilly, “What Happens When the Economy Eats the Planet?,” __Discovery News__, Tue Jan 26, 2010 04:31 PM ET, pg. [[http://news.discovery.com/earth/what-happens-when-the-economy-eats-the-planet.html]]]

Luckily Andrew __Simms… people and beyond.__

**We are currently falling behind in colonization tech – plan allows us to colonize**
**Crandell 11** – MBA, Founder of Space Wealth [William C. Crandell, “Is Profitable Asteroid Mining: A Pragmatic Goal?,” Space Wealth, 23 February 2011, pg. asteroid mining-Is-P@M-Pragmatic-2011-02-23.pdf//edlee]//

//__Asteroids offer… profitable metals mining.__//

//**Mining relieves resource pressures that place the global economy and ecosystem at risk. It paves the way for and space colonization**//
//**__ASTRA Report__ 10** [ASTRA: Asteroid Mining, Technologies Roadmap and Application, Final Report, International Space University Space Studies Program 2010// edlee]

__As humans deplete… **settlements in space**__.

We don’t have to win we colonize NOW -- Exploration key to human survival
**The Space Review 6/6** “New strategies for exploration and settlement” June 6th, 2011 http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1860/1

That approach… __off the planet__.”

<span class="Underline">Asteroid mining is the key tech to allow colonization</span>
<span class="Underline">**Landis 3** </span>(Geoffrey, Conference on Human Space Exploration, Space Technology & Applications International Forum, “Colonization of Venus,” February 2-6 2003, <span style="color: black;">http://www.gameszors.com/space/VenusColony_STAIF03.pdf)[KEZIOS</span>]

<span class="Underline">One possible… decreasing the synodic period)</span>

==Space Corps 1AC - Samford== 

Advantage 1 – Space Doctrine

**Chinese military modernization creates an environment for inevitable space warfare**
**Blumenthal et al 11** [Dan, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Randall Schriver-deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 2003 to 2005, Mark Stokes- team chief and senior country director for the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Mongolia in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affair, L.C. Russell Hsiao-- editor of China Brief at The Jamestown Foundation from October 2007-July 2011, and Michael Mazza--senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI, “ASIAN ALLIANCES IN THE 21stCENTURY”, [[http://www.aei.org/docLib/Asian-Alliances-21st-Century.pdf]]]

__The necessity of re-thinking<span class="Underline">…thinning out U.S. attacks.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**The United States must develop a space doctrine to hedge against the Chinese Space Doctrine**</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">MacDonald 08</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Bruce W. MacDonald Council Special Report No. 38 September 2008 “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security” Mr. MacDonald holds a BSE from Princeton in aerospace engineering and two master’s degrees </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: black;">[[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us]]</span><span style="color: black;"> security/p16707?breadcrumb=%2Fpublication%2Fby_type%2Fspecial_report EL accessed 6/24/2011)</span>




__<span style="color: black;">With China’s demonstration... issue is neede</span>__<span style="color: black;">d</span>

**The Space Corps would be the best model for a United States Space doctrine**
**Moorhead 4** [Richard D, US Army Major, “Will We Need a Space Force?,” MILITARY REVIEW, July/August]

__War in space is inevitable… separate Space Force.__

**A space doctrine sustains military effectiveness and a victory in the inevitable Space War**
**Newberry 97** [Robert, USAF Major, “SPACE DOCTRINE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY,” Air University, March]

The lack of space doctrine… __a war in space__

**We must develop the Space Corps now before China implements contested zones in space – your impact defense doesn’t take contested zones into account**
**Blumenthal et al 11** [Dan, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Randall Schriver-deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 2003 to 2005, Mark Stokes- team chief and senior country director for the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Mongolia in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affair, L.C. Russell Hsiao-- editor of China Brief at The Jamestown Foundation from October 2007-July 2011, and Michael Mazza--senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI, “ASIAN ALLIANCES IN THE 21stCENTURY”, [[http://www.aei.org/docLib/Asian-Alliances-21st-Century.pdf]]]

The Cold War-era “hub and spoke”… the hub-and-spoke.

**Chinese control of space would independently destroy global satellites**
**Martel & Yoshihara 3** [William C. Martel, Prof. Nat'l Security Affairs at the Naval War College, and Toshi Yoshihara, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy - Tufts U, research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, "Averting a Sino-U.S. Space Race," Autumn, 2003, The Washington Quarterly, 26:4, pp. 19-35]

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strategists in the…</span>__ __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">their economic well-being</span>__</span>.

<span class="Underline">**Global vulnerability of satellites ensures extinction through nuclear miscalculation**</span>
**Myers, 2008**[lexis Date Accessed: June 23, 2011March 10, 2008 Monday, The International Herald Tribune, Risk of space war: Preparation outruns prevention Steven Lee Myers - The New York Times Media Group]

__It does not take…__ in Colorado Springs.


**Advantage 2: Deterrence**
**The United States will lose military and space superiority – now is key to deterring potential harms**
**Gayl 4 [**Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

As U.S. capabilities to… empowered Space Service.

**And that’s key to cross-domain deterrence**
**Moseley 07** - 18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force [General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” __CSAF White Paper__, 29 Dec 2007, pg. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]//edlee]//

//__No modern war… essential to victory.__//

//**<span style="color: black;">And independently, our space deterrence solves global conflict and strengthens global deterrence</span>**//
//**<span style="color: black;">Morgan 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Forrest E. Morgan, Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. 2010. Page 14-15</span>[[@http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf|__http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf__]]<span style="color: black;"> DM)</span>//

//Although this assessment… __deterrence and stability.__//

//**Deterrence prevents escalation and solves all impacts**//
//**Gerson & Whiteneck 09** – Research analysts @ Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center, where he focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, and arms control [Michael Gerson (M.A. in International Relations from the University of Chicago) & Daniel Whiteneck, “Deterrence and Influence: The Navy's Role in Preventing War,” __CNA Analysis and Solutions__, March 2009//edlee]

Although implicit or… **__and terminate conflicts.__**

**Finally, put your arms race disads away – history is on our side – the aff will act as a tool for negotiation not weaponization.**
**Gayl 4 [**Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed September 14, 2011]

__The creation of a … our capabilities are real.__

==Aliens 1AC - GFCA State== 

Contention 1 – No Disads

**No risk of great power wars- economics, democracy, and nuclear weapons all make it impossible**
Deudney<span class="underline">, professor of political science @ John Hopkins, </span>and Ikenberry<span class="underline">, professor of international affairs @ Princeton, </span>9 (Daniel and John, Foreign Affairs, January/February)

This bleak outlook …autocratic revivalists acknowledge.


**Regional Wars won’t escalate**
Walt,<span class="underline"> professor of IR @ Harvard, </span>9 (Stephen M., February 20, pg. http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/?page=1)

In his [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=4681|introduction]], …conflagration is minimal.

Contention 2 – The Truth

**Extraterrestrial technology exists to replace all energy sources – the Disclosure Project has identified hundreds of military, intelligence and corporate witnesses who attest to the fact that since the Eisenhower administration, there has been a sustained and unlawful government effort to suppress commercially viable ET energy sources**
**Greer 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Steven M, emergency physician and former chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital. He is a lifetime member of Alpha Omega Alpha, the nation's most prestigious medical honor society. Inspired, in part, by his uncle who helped design the original lunar module, Dr. Greer has spent years researching exotic energy and propulsion systems. He has been examining what systems have been developed and how the implementation of those systems would affect the environment and society as a whole. He has met with and provided briefings for senior members of government, military and intelligence operations in the United States and around the world, including senior CIA officials, Joint Chiefs of Staff, White House staff, senior members of Congress and congressional committees, senior United Nations leadership and diplomats, senior military officials in the United Kingdom and Europe and cabinet-level staff members of the Japanese government, among others. Dr. Greer has addressed tens of thousands of people live at conferences and lectures around the world including the international convention for MENSA, The Institute of Noetic Sciences Board of Directors, and the Sierra Club, THE UNACKNOWLEDGED THREAT SECRET AND COVERT OPERATIONS BY THE USA, World Affairs; The Journal of International Issues, http://www.disclosureproject.org/World%20Affairs%20-%20The%20Journal%20of%20International%20Issues.htm]</span>

The Disclosure Project, ….<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> US president and US Congress. </span>


**Don’t even try to beat us on the ET debate – 500 military, corporate and intelligence personnel are ready to testify on the existence, viability and origin of this tech.**
**Greer 4 [**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven M, emergency physician and former chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital. He is a lifetime member of Alpha Omega Alpha, the nation's most prestigious medical honor society. Inspired, in part, by his uncle who helped design the original lunar module, Dr. Greer has spent years researching exotic energy and propulsion systems. He has been examining what systems have been developed and how the implementation of those systems would affect the environment and society as a whole. He has met with and provided briefings for senior members of government, military and intelligence operations in the United States and around the world, including senior CIA officials, Joint Chiefs of Staff, White House staff, senior members of Congress and congressional committees, senior United Nations leadership and diplomats, senior military officials in the United Kingdom and Europe and cabinet-level staff members of the Japanese government, among others. Dr. Greer has addressed tens of thousands of people live at conferences and lectures around the world including the international convention for MENSA, The Institute of Noetic Sciences Board of Directors, and the Sierra Club, THE UNACKNOWLEDGED THREAT SECRET AND COVERT OPERATIONS BY THE USA, World Affairs; The Journal of International Issues, http://www.disclosureproject.org/World%20Affairs%20-%20The%20Journal%20of%20International%20Issues.htm]</span>

Today, this subject usually <span class="underline">….</span> entity can insist on silence.

**And, you should use the precautionary principle when determining if aliens exist or not- there’s too many factors to ever preclude the possibility of aliens**
<span class="underline">Bass 8</span> (Steve, June 30, pg. http://www.americanchronicle.com/articles/66663)

To discount UFO´s as a <span class="underline">…</span>intelligence governing them.


Contention 3 – Free Energy

**ET energy will alleviate all sources of pollution and avoid extinction – we solve every internal link to environmental apocalypse**
**Greer 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Steven M. emergency physician and former chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital. He is a lifetime member of Alpha Omega Alpha, the nation's most prestigious medical honor society. Inspired, in part, by his uncle who helped design the original lunar module, Dr. Greer has spent years researching exotic energy and propulsion systems. He has been examining what systems have been developed and how the implementation of those systems would affect the environment and society as a whole. He has met with and provided briefings for senior members of government, military and intelligence operations in the United States and around the world, including senior CIA officials, Joint Chiefs of Staff, White House staff, senior members of Congress and congressional committees, senior United Nations leadership and diplomats, senior military officials in the United Kingdom and Europe and cabinet-level staff members of the Japanese government, among others. Dr. Greer has addressed tens of thousands of people live at conferences and lectures around the world including the international convention for MENSA, The Institute of Noetic Sciences Board of Directors, and the Sierra Club, DISCLOSURE: IMPLICATIONS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, WORLD PEACE, WORLD POVERTY AND THE HUMAN FUTURE, UFO Casebook, http://www.ufocasebook.com/disclosureproject.html]</span>

We have identified **__… and safely applied__**.

**And, our technology is key to eliminate world poverty by 2030**
**Greer 2 [**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven M. emergency physician and former chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital. He is a lifetime member of Alpha Omega Alpha, the nation's most prestigious medical honor society. Inspired, in part, by his uncle who helped design the original lunar module, Dr. Greer has spent years researching exotic energy and propulsion systems. He has been examining what systems have been developed and how the implementation of those systems would affect the environment and society as a whole. He has met with and provided briefings for senior members of government, military and intelligence operations in the United States and around the world, including senior CIA officials, Joint Chiefs of Staff, White House staff, senior members of Congress and congressional committees, senior United Nations leadership and diplomats, senior military officials in the United Kingdom and Europe and cabinet-level staff members of the Japanese government, among others. Dr. Greer has addressed tens of thousands of people live at conferences and lectures around the world including the international convention for MENSA, The Institute of Noetic Sciences Board of Directors, and the Sierra Club, DISCLOSURE: IMPLICATIONS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, WORLD PEACE, WORLD POVERTY AND THE HUMAN FUTURE, UFO Casebook, http://www.ufocasebook.com/disclosureproject.htm]</span>

The disclosure of these …. peacefully into a new time.

**Poverty outweighs your disads**
**Abu-Jamal 98 [**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mumia, A Quiet and Deadly Violence, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]]</span>

We live, equally immersed, … the world." [Gilligan, p. 196]

**And, put away your K – acknowledging ET existence is a vital prerequisite to your alternative**
<span class="underline">Wendt and Duvall 8</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Alexander, professor of international security @ Ohio State, and Raymond, chair of the political science department @ Minnesota, Political Theory, Volume 38, pg. 607)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">We have called ours a “…</span> and sustains it.




Contention 4 – Storms
**Storms coming now and bigger than ever**
**__<span style="color: black;">Pachal 11</span>__** (Peter Pachal, reporter for PCMag, June 8, 2011 “June 8, 2011 “Massive Solar Flare Misses Earth, but Are We Ready for the Big One?” PC Mag <span style="color: black;">[[@http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2386623,00.asp|__http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2386623,00.asp__]])</span>

**__The Sun roared … were to happen."__**


**And credible sources confirm its not scaremongering** 
<span class="underline">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, March 23, pg. http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20127001.300-space-storm-alert-90-seconds-from-catastrophe.html?full=true)

"<span class="underline">I don't think …</span>says Hapgood.

**The storms will collapse civilization**
<span class="underline">Marusek 7</span> (James A., Nuclear physicist and engineer, pg. http://personals.galaxyinternet.net/tunga/SSTA.pdf)

There is a singular … will come crashing down.

**And it outweighs your disads**
<span class="underline">Maj 97</span> (http://partsonsale.com/solarstorms.html)

It's like …<span class="underline"> is vulnerable</span>."

**And, ET technology is the only way to solve solar storms**
<span class="underline">Peckman 9</span> (Jeff, April 4, pg. http://www.examiner.com/x-2024-Denver-UFO-Examiner~y2009m4d4-UFO-technology-might-shield-against-solar-storm)

UFO technology might … magnetic interference.


Plan

**Plan: The United States Congress should develop commercially applicable extraterrestrial energy generation technology.** 

=<span class="Underline">Negatives</span>= 
==<span class="Underline">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">United States Munitions List CP (Specific to ITAR aff)</span>=== 

**CP solves their global impacts quicker – and avoids politics. Their 1AC Solvency Advocate**
Sundahl 2010
(Mark J., professor of International Business Transactions, Commercial Law, and Space Law at Cleveland State University, March, "Space Tourism and Export Controls: A Prayer for Relief,”<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[@http://works.bepress.com/mark_sundahl/1]]</span>)

__One way that a company… he or she can build one__

==<span class="Underline">Politics</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Westminster - Transportation Bill</span>=== 

Transportation bill will pass – now key time
Clawson 9/1 [Laura, Daily Kos Labor, “Obama calls for clean extensions of transportation funding,” [[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2011/09/01/1012620/-Obama-calls-for-clean-extensions-of-transportation-funding]]]

Wednesday, __President…__ than full, multi-year bills.

Space policies are politically controversial – economic interests drive intense political fights in the Senate
Simberg ’11, (Chair of the Competitive Space Task Force, former aerospace engineer)
[Washington Examiner, “Space politics make strange bedfellows”, 6-8-11, http://washingtonexaminer.com/blogs/opinion-zone/2011/06/space-politics-makes-strange-bedfellows // Lack]
__As part of the final…__ gets built at all.

Partisanship will derail motivation on the Transportation Bill – delay will kill the industry
Maslin 9/2 [Sarah, New York Times, “Highway Bill Could Face Congressional Gridlock,” [[http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/02/highway-bill-could-face-congressional-gridlock/#h[]|http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/02/highway-bill-could-face-congressional-gridlock/#h[]]] ]

Just over a month after a… reasonable fashion.”

Airline collapse causes nuclear war
Donna <span style="color: black;">Marmorstein</span>, Copy Editor – Aberdeen American News (South Dakota), 10-5-<span style="color: black;">2003</span>,
http://209.157.64.201/focus/f-news/995745/posts

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If the airlines…</span>light-years away.
==<span class="Underline">Specific Rounds</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Westminster </span>=== 
**<span class="Underline">Team of Alex Brown & Brendan Phillips</span>**
<span class="Underline">Rd 1 v. Lee County (BMD)</span>
<span class="Underline">2NR: Politics</span>

Rd 4 v. Houston County (SPS)
2NR: World Space Council CP / Politics

===Griffin=== 
**Team of Chandler Apple & Brendan Phillips**
Rd 1 v. Westminster Prep (SPS)
2NR: Privatization CP

Rd 3 v. Houston County HP (SPS)
2NR: Top of Docket CP

===Samford=== 
**Team of Chandler Apple & Brendan Phillips**
Rd 2 v. USN DS (Space Tourism)
2NR: United States Munitions List CP, Politics DA

Rd 3 v Vestavia KY (Asteroid Mining)
2NR: Domestic Mining CP, Politics

Rd 6 v. Vestavia DS (Asteroid Mining)
2NR: World Space Council CP, Politics

===Warner Robins=== 
**Team of Libby Mandarino & Chandler Apple**
Rd 2 v Houston County MP (Weaponization)
2NR: Cooperation DA, Weaponization Bad turns

Rd 3 v. Tift County CP (Asteroid Mining)
2NR: Domestic Mining CP, Cooperation DA, case

===Sequoyah=== 
**Team of Chandler Apple & Sterling DeSantis**

===Lincoln County=== 
Rd 1 v. Houston County PR (Weaponization)
2NR: Carriers Funding PIC

Rd 3 v. Houston County MR (Weaponization)
2NR: Carriers Funding PIC