[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I affirm, “Resolved: Justice requires the recognition of animal rights.”</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I value justice.</span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wise defines animal rights in 96</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Steven M., practices animal protection law and is a professor of “Animal Rights Law” a the Vermont Law School, Legal rights forNonhuman Animals: The Case for Chimpanzees and Bonobos, pg 1 http://heinonline.org/HOL/LandingPage?collection=journals&handle=hein.journals/anim2&div=14&id=&page=]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">““Animal rights” … they assume the shape of law.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Animal rights deserve the same protection as human rights. Animals have value and thus justice demands that they deserve respect that can only be given through recognition of their rights.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Wenz 92 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">E</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">meritus Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois_at_Springfield|University of Illinois at Springfield]], University Scholar of the University of Illinois, and Adjunct Professor of Medical Humanities at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southern_Illinois_University_School_of_Medicine|Southern Illinois University School of Medicine]].</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //Environmental Justice]//</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">“The principle that we found implicit in our ordinary moral judgments is that …. All subjects-of-a-life, both human and nonhuman, have these rights as part of their right not to be harmed.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And recognition of animal rights doesn’t mean that we would never be able to violate their rights, or that we have to stop all meat production, its instead a question of our methodology while we carry out these acts.</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friend 2k8 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Catherine. M.S. in Economics and a B.A. in Economics and Spanish. //The Compassionate Carnivore// pp. 255]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Selling meat … raised is the moral issue.”</span></span>

It is permissible to kill animals for the sake of human survival.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Wenz 92 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">E</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">meritus Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois_at_Springfield|University of Illinois at Springfield]], University Scholar of the University of Illinois, and Adjunct Professor of Medical Humanities at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southern_Illinois_University_School_of_Medicine|Southern Illinois University School of Medicine]].</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //Environmental Justice]//</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">“Regan argues also that in cases … an individual for the good of others.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> “</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1 Is the Plan Text: the United States Federal Government should stop subsidizing factory farms (CAFO’s) and outlaw contract growing. I reserve the right to clarify. </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2 Is Justification: I only defend this plan text. All disadvantages must be specific to this plan text. This is theoretical</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ly l</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">egitimate because,</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">a) narrowing the scope of evaluation prevents advocacy shifts. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">b) it is impossible to prove any statement completely, categorically, and 100% true; </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">c) It’s good for precise argumentation</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">d) Its better than just having the same debate over and over again, if we don’t parametricize the resolution then every round is just debating the same broad concept of justice but never getting any depth in the education; </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Is Inherency: </span>**</span>
The government subsidizes 9,900 CAFOs.
The Ethicurean, 2008.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Elanor, “Bucking the CAFO tax: A plea for conscientious objection”, April 24 2008, The Ethicurean, [[http://www.ethicurean.com/2008/04/24/buck_the_cafo_tax/]].)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Here’s a number to knock you out of that mid-day stupor… “the figure would undoubtedly be much higher.””</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. is Harms: F</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">actory farming has made it impossible to operate an independent family farm that respects animal rights.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
Humane Society 2k8<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Humane Society of the United States. “The True Cost of Animal Agribusiness for Rural Communities, Public Health, Families, Farmers, the Environment, and Animals”, [[http://www.humanesociety.org/assets/pdfs/farm/hsus-factory-farming-in-america-the-true-cost-of-animal-agribusiness.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">“Factory farms have made it increasingly difficult<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ….</span>involves some of the world<span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">‟</span>s most powerful and concentrated industries<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”” </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">CAFO’s destroy animal rights. </span>
Mason and Finelli 2006<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jim, Mary. Farmed Animal Advocates </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In Defense of Animals: the Second Wave]</span>//
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Factory methods and equipment…. to be turned into companion-animal food and feed supplements, to incinerators, or to landfills.”</span></span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 1 is Global Warming: </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Factory farming contributes more greenhouse gases to global warming than the entire transportation industry.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Woods 2k8 <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[Cathleen. Founder of Vegan-Nutritionista.com, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.vegan-nutritionista.com/causes-of-global-warming.html]]]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="background-color: white;">“The problem is, it's not widely publicized that …This destruction of the natural ecosystem is a huge cause of global warming.” </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Methane destroys the environment 100 times faster than carbon.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pearce 2k7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Fred. Journalist for [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Wide_Fund_for_Nature|WWF]], the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UN_Environment_Programme|UN Environment Programme]], the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Cross|Red Cross]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UNESCO|UNESCO]], the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Bank|World Bank]], the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Environment_Agency|European Environment Agency]], and the UK [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_Agency|Environment Agency]]. Reed Business Information, 2007. //With Speed and Violence//. pp 77-78]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Now our most feared global Armageddon is climate change. …. But we have to change tense here. For "would create," read "is creating."[RP]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Methane driven global warming triggers 4 extinction scenarios. </span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Lynas 2k8 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[Mark. Journalist, Environmental Activist. Six Degrees: Our Future On a Hotter Planet pp. 255-259]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">“Worse was still to come. … before anything like pre-extinction levels of biodiversity returned.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">255-259</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">5. is Solvency: Organic Livestock farming prevents the manure buildup that kills the environment significantly lowers the methane production of meat-consumption and eliminates the violations of animal rights.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wainana 2k10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Bernard. Livestock Consultant, PROFARMS CONSULTANTS “</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Livestock And Climate Change;What are the true facts?” March 8, 2010 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://my.opera.com/PROFARMS/blog/show.dml/8598901]]]</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meat production</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, especially beef, __… climate warming and animal cruelty__. </span></span>


==Negative== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I negate.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Animal rights is defined by Wise in 96</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Steven M., practices animal protection law and is a professor of “Animal Rights Law” a the Vermont Law School, Legal rights forNonhuman Animals: The Case for Chimpanzees and Bonobos, pg 1 http://heinonline.org/HOL/LandingPage?collection=journals&handle=hein.journals/anim2&div=14&id=&page=]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Animal rights” is a term… the shape of law.”</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The standard for the round is recognizing the sameness between man and animal; The anthropological machine distinguishes between man and animal by allowing humanity to suspend its animality to move past this part of this nature.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The affirmative fails to recognize that not only is there an animality within man, but there is also an inherent humanity within the animal; This refusal perpetuates the binary of the human and the inhuman.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Wadiwel 2K2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dinesh. “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal. animal by any other name vol 1 no 2 [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol1no2_2002/wadiwel_cows.html]]] </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“The life of cattle… the vivisector’s knife”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The affirmative’s distinction between the man and animal is a perpetuation of the anthropological machine; This machine is what creates the divide between human and subhuman.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Agamben 2k4 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Giorgio. Philosopher, professor //The Open: Man and Animal// pg. 37]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“The contradiction that Steinthal… be able to stop them”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Bare life justifies violence against the homo sacer, allowing us to kill those who are deemed inhuman without a fear of punishment.</span>

Rogers 1 –<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD, a Lecturer in law at the School of Law and Justice at Southern Cross University, Lismore (Nicole, Law Text Culture, “Terrorist v Sovereign: Legal performances in a state of exception,” Lexis)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Agamben draws upon… possibly by way of trial”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Producing an internal state of exception while claiming to put homo sacers under the rule of law fuels genocide</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers 2</span>** – PhD, a Lecturer in law at the School of Law and Justice at Southern Cross University, Lismore
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">(Nicole, Law Text Culture, “Terrorist v Sovereign: Legal performances in a state of exception,” Lexis)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“There is no doubt that legal… to be applying the law”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">A Shabbat between man and animal that allows us to show the separation of man and animal, and suspend the distinction of the anthropological machine must come first</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Agamben 2k4 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Giorgio. Philosopher, professor //The Open: Man and Animal// pg. 92]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“To render inoperative… mystery of separation”</span></span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]