[[toc]]
Womanly needs- [[mailto:koutrec@gmail.com|koutrec@gmail.com]]
Neg Cites and Awesomeness - [[mailto:andrewlockwood579@gmail.com|andrewlockwood579@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 

==NanoSats Aff - Wake== 
===**<span style="color: black;">Advantage One – Power Projection </span>**=== 

**<span style="color: black;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air … , “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">The</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="color: black;">test of a Chinese … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">21st Century adversary attack capabilities. </span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – These vulnerabilities make conflict inevitable – adversaries will attempt to level the playing field by attacking U.S. space systems – guarantees escalation</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research … ?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">Given the great extent to … -on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">4</span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Even conflicts not involving the U.S. would destroy our satellites</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Smith, 2011</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (M.V., USAF Colonel, Director of … /lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute … in the minds of commanders.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Satellite destruction jeopardizes the war-fighting function of our military </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Kittfield, 2010</span>__<span style="color: black;"> (</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">James, Senior Correspondent 4at … /MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">In the “commons” above Earth, … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">buying time on commercial satellites. </span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Secure satellite networks are critical to power projection </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA … Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">Space assets are</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> one of </span>__<span style="color: black;">… </span>____<span style="color: black;">military</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> over the last decade.5 </span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Collapse of power projection triggers war</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Zhang and Shi, 2011</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span>) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">This does not necessarily … devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Hegemony prevents multiple scenarios for extinction </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Kagan, 2007</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Robert, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Policy Review, August/September)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">If the world is marked by the persistence …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>__



**<span style="color: black;">And – The U.S. will always attempt to maintain hegemony </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Shalmon and Horowitz, 2009</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">(Dan, Mike, Total B.A.’s, Orbis, Spring)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">It is important to recognize</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> …. threats are inevitable given America’s role in the global order.24 </span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Diplomacy is not a substitute for needed defenses– only the plan maintains U.S. power projection </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Haddick, 2011</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space”, Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">The U.S. Department of Defense … worse time for the Pentagon's budget masters.</span>



===**<span style="color: black;">Advantage Two – China</span>**=== 

**<span style="color: black;">The PLA is intent on competing with U.S. in space – they are developing military capabilities that would neutralize our satellite network, collapse nuclear deterrence and guarantee conflict </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Fisher, 2011</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Richard D., Senior Fellow at the International Assessment and Strategy Center, January 20, http://www.strategycenter.net/research/pubID.222/pub_detail.asp)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">China's</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> Jan. 11 </span>__<span style="color: black;">test </span>____<span style="color: black;">of</span>____<span style="color: black;">exoatmospheric …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> the region's </span>__<span style="color: black;">economic growth. </span>__



**<span style="color: black;">And – All indicators point to an attack on U.S. assets in space – such a move will rapidly escalate into full-scale U.S.-China war. Our scenario should be methodologically preferred and none-of-their advantage counterplans solve </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Wortzel, 2008</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Larry, Ret. Colonel United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare”, Astropolitics 6; 112-137) </span>

__<span style="color: black;">The PLA is exploring</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> in theoretical …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> access to space in any future conflict</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">And – Separation between the PLA and the Chinese government makes crisis-escalation likely</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">MacDonald, 2011</span>__<span style="color: black;"> (</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Bruce, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program at the U.S. Institute of Peace, “Military and Civil Space Programs in China”, CQ Congressional Testimony, May 11, Lexis)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Miscalculation ignites the tinder of fundamental …, appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. </span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Deterrence theory only supports our advantage; China is not deterred from attacking our space assets because it would leave us incapable of retribution. Also, the perception that our space systems are vulnerable collapses both conventional and nuclear deterrence </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Burke, 2006</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Alan, Lt. Colonel – Space Command, U.S. Air Force, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor”, [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])</span>

__<span style="color: black;">The erosion of the US ability to … with US satellites without fear of retribution</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">.57 </span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – U.S.-China satellite warfare guarantees nuclear escalation </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Forden, 2008</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Geoffrey, MIT Research Associate, Former UN Weapons Inspector, and Strategic Weapons Analyst with the Congressional Budget Office, “How China Loses the Coming Space War”, January 10, http://blog.wired.com/defense/2008/01/inside-the-chin.html#more)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">TheU</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">nited </span>__<span style="color: black;">S</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">tates </span>__<span style="color: black;">has</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> five </span>__<span style="color: black;">satellites</span>____<span style="color: black;"> … a nuclear war</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> without a clear military goal. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">And – US-China war causes extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">a … </span><span style="background-color: lime; color: black; font-size: 11pt;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span>__


**<span style="color: black;">And – even limited china exchange causes extinction</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Takai, 2009</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">What would happen</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">if China</span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… </span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">talks with China. Such advice is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">And – Our plan’s strategy is based on the soundest understanding of China. Competing views either misdiagnose or misapply </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Siddall, 2000</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Alexandra Siddall, Second Secretary, Embassy of Australia in Russia, Ph.D., Department of Government, University of Queensland, “The Misapplication of Defensive Realism: the Security Dilemma and Rising Powers in East Asia”, Paper \Presented at the 42nd Australian Political Studies Association Annual Conference, 10-5-2000, apsa2000.anu.edu.au/confpapers/siddell.rtf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">The difficulty for defensive realists is that </span>__<span style="color: black;">…</span>____<span style="color: black;"> Beijing at the beginning of the twenty-first century.</span>__




===**<span style="color: black;">Plan </span>**=== 

**<span style="color: black;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of nanosatellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere through the Multipurpose NanoMissile System. </span>**




===**<span style="color: black;">Solvency</span>**=== 

**<span style="color: black;">Multipurpose NanoMissile System is key; it guarantees rapid reconstitution. The technology already exist – lack of government funding is the only obstacle </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Hawkins, 2011</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Currently, there are plans to fly three … </span>__<span style="color: black;">more</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> with </span>__<span style="color: black;">internal</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">, with how the Army will adapt to this technology.” </span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Only our Aff solves </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">(James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 2: 220-225)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">A robust and </span>__<span style="color: black;">responsive space … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> capabilities, and, as needed, activate on-orbit spares.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">And – Nanosatellites are key – they are survivable, they guarantee a low probability of detection, they have good signal strength in Low-Earth-Orbit, they adapt to changing environments, all while being affordable and maintaining economies of scale </span>**

**__<span style="color: black;">London, 2010</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> (John R. London III, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command, with Brent Marley and David J Weeks, SETA Contractors, “Army Nanosatellite Technology Demonstrations For the Tactical Land Warfighter”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA534645)</span>

<span style="color: black;">Constellations of nanosatellites</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">/ microsatellites </span><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;"> satellite miniaturization for the tactical land warfighter.</span>

==Nanosats Aff - Lex== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Power Projection </span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Rendleman, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">test of a Chinese … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">21st Century adversary attack capabilities. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">These vulnerabilities make conflict inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Morgan, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Given the great extent to … -on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">4</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Rapid reconstitution is key to prevent satellite loss from debris and system failure</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">AIA 11 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[Aerospace Industries of Association of America Inc, 2011, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space is</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;"> certainly </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">becoming more</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;"> contested, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> modernizing their own space infrastructure. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nanosatellties are key to combat adaptiveness which ensures future successful warfare </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Messervy 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Deputy Commander, Research, Development and Acquisition, “Maintaining the Advantage: Ensuring Superiority in the Battlefield,” 2010 Fall/Winter 2011 edition , http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA538980&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Beyond cost, other appealing aspects … technical superiority on the battlefield. </span>__



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Net centric warfare is a framing issue- with it we can deter all future wars</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chang-hee 5</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Chang-hee Nam, professor of Inha University, South Korea, who formerly worked for the Korea Institute f or Defense Analysis, “The Realignment of the USFK in the Military Transformation and South Korea's Defense Reform 2020”, http://www.nids.go.jp/english/event/symposium/pdf/2005/e2005_05.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">By contrast with the LPP, … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">longer fight</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> or react coherently. 11</span>__</span>


**Insufficient bandwidth and Satellite attacks cause naval collapse**

**Jean 11**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">, M.A., Journalism, Columbia University, B.A., Cornell University, senior editor at National DefenseMagazine - Grace, August, “Drone Sensor Data Will Overload Networks, Navy Officials Warn,” National Defense Magazine, NDIA Business and Technology Magazine, August,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/August/Pages/DroneSensorDataWillOverloadNetworks,NavyOfficialsWarn.aspx</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> expected growth of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">budget for the system in 2014..</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Naval power solves extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Conway et al , 07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">- *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf, )</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">This strategy reaffirms the use … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, unconventionally, and with nuclear forces.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Threats are real and inevitable—heg is key to solve multiple scenarios for war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thayer 6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> - Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A grand strategy based on … the economic prosperity it provides. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And the transition war goes nuclear </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Barry </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Posen and</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Andrew </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ross</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">,19</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">97</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">, Professor of Political Science, MIT; Professor of International Security, US Naval War College, International Security, Winter</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">The United States can, more … for those not directly involved. </span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">PGS </span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The government has cut our prompt global strike capabilities</span>**
<span class="TagsChar">Air Force Magazine </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">6/20</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">/</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (“House Lawmakers Cut Prompt-Strike Funding”, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/DRArchive/Pages/2011/June%202011/June%2020%202011/HouseLawmakersCutPrompt-StrikeFunding.aspx, yeeemanth)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">House Lawmakers Cut Prompt-Strike … </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. (HAC report; caution, large file)</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Responsive space capabilities give us the tech to do it</span>**
**Doggrell 06,****<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Engineer with the Aerospace Corporation, Les, Senior Project Engineer with the the Aerospace Corporation which supports the Headquarters Air Force Space Command’s Directorate of Plans and Requirements, “Operationally Responsive Space: A Vision for the Future of Military Space,” Air & Space Power Journal, Summer) (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj%20/apj06/sum06/doggrell.html|http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj /apj06/sum06/doggrell.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Development of responsive space may … we perform traditional space missions.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Specifically this is true with the nanomissile </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gresham and Gorman 11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John D. Gresham - author, researcher, game designer, photographer, and military commentator with numerous publishing, design, speaking, and television appearance credits in his portfolio. Shawna Gorman writer for Defense media network, 8/24/11, http://www.defensemedianetwork.com/stories/nanomissile/]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Since the launch of Explorer 1, … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">commanders may finally be fulfilled.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nuclear Terror – PGS solves it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sinha</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> 9/18/</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Alankrita, IPCS (Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies) conducts independent research on conventional and non-conventional security issues in the region and shares its findings with policy makers and the public. It provides a forum for discussion with the strategic community on strategic issues and strives to explore alternatives. Moreover, it works towards building capacity among young scholars for greater refinement of their analyses of South Asian security, “Prompt Global Strike And US Deterrence Post 9/11 – Analysis”, http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.eurasiareview.com/18092011-prompt-global-strike-and-us-deterrence-post-911-analysis/,)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span> __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The current security environment … </span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">been a step in this direction</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nuclear terrorism will otherwise occur by 2013</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Allison 10</span>****-**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th,http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In his first speech to … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and relentless determination to pursue it.\</span>__
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Russia and china miscalculate – escalates to full scale nuclear annihilation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ayson 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Robert , Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and … still meet with a devastating response.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And effective counterforce means we can deter all future conflicts – nuclear war becomes obsolete </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lieber & Press 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Keir A. Lieber, Assistant … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">abroad rests largely on a bluff.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Their Impact turns are non-starters- our mechanism is boost glide- not ICBM</span>**
<span class="citesChar">GSN</span> 4/7/<span class="citesChar">11</span>(Global Security Newswire, Citing DOD Reports, “Pentagon Revises Prompt Global Strike Effort”, http://gsn.nti.org/gsn/nw_20110407_4669.php)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The</span> U.S. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Defense Department has elected … </span>Collina, Arms Control Today, April 2011).

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 3 is Solvency – </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nanosatellites are inevitable but no launch mechanism means they won’t be deployed</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Kelley 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">[Mike Kelley, Staff Writer for Alabama Live, 10/26/11, " Small satellites help Army see and communicate better, says symposium panel” http://www.al.com/42/index.ssf/2011/10/small_satellites_help_army_see.html]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The military has awakened</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – in a … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">range costs equal vehicle costs."</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">But the nanomissile reverses this- solves reconstitution - lack of government funding is the only obstacle </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hawkins 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Currently, there are plans to … will adapt to this technology.” </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Nanosat launch-platform is critical to both effective space deterrence and to a robust aerospace industry – only the plan solves </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Colon, 2010 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Miguel, Lt. Colonel United States … Nanosats”, https://www.afresearch.org)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A New Approach to Space … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">to attack; effectively deterring</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> him.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Reconstitution solves debris and deterrence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Butterworth, 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">President, Aries Analytics, Inc. Fellow, George C. Marshall Institute (Robert, “Assuring Space Support Despite ASATs,” http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/575.pdf </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Even without enemy action, … could scarcely be considered escalatory</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

=Negative= 
==Holocaust Trivialization== 

**Trivialization of the holocaust is a logical fallacy and a d rule- reject them**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Curtis </span><span class="CiteChar">4 </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Gary. Fallacy Files “Ad … ://www.fallacyfiles.org/adnazium.html)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In almost every heated debate, … ,</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> it is often "fighting words". </span>

==Topicality== 
===Ground Based Lasers 1NC=== 
**Increase means to make greater**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Encarta World English Dictionary, 7</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 6pt;"> (“Increase”, 2007, [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Increase </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 6pt;">transitive and intransitive verb (… </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">in number, quantity, or degree </span>__


**AND - MESOSPHERE**
**Weisstein 7**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Eric W. Weisstein, Math and Science Encyclopedist, [[http://scienceworld.wolfram.com/astronomy/Mesosphere.html]])</span>

__The region of the Earth's atmosphere from roughly 50-80 km altitude.__


**AND - SPACE DEVELOPMENT MEANS THE EXPANSION OF COMMERCIAL PROJECTS IN SPACE**
**Livingston 07** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])</span>

__Eric Westling__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> is a science write</span>__r__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, … manned</span> __commercial projects in space__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>


**AND – SPACE EXPLORATION REQUIRES SPACEFLIGHT – THEIR AFF, IN PARTICULAR, DOES NOT MEET OUR INTERPRETATION**
**Wright 8**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Edward, Project Manager – Teachers in Space, Former President – X-Rocket, LLC, and Programming Writer – Microsoft Corporation, Comment on “A Move Against ‘Mars Mission Funding’”, Space Politics, 6-28, [[http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/]])</span>

__Unmanned missions are__ //<span style="font-size: 6pt;">not exploration</span>////__,__// __…__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">also working on space exploration.</span>

==EPA Riders DA== 
===1NC=== 

**No EPA Stripping now**
**Graves, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Lucia, Huffington Post, “War On The EPA: Republican Bills Would Erase Decades Of Protection”, 10/9, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/09/epa-republican-war-defund_n_1000664.html] </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">WASHINGTON -- </span>__America's environmental protections are … promised vetoes of the measures__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**The plan is must pass- means stripping gets attached**
**Graves, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Lucia, Huffington Post, “War On The EPA: Republican Bills Would Erase Decades Of Protection”, 10/9, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/09/epa-republican-war-defund_n_1000664.html] </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Still, once </span>__anti-EPA …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">are important for our economy </span>

**EPA Stripping causes rampart warming –**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Parenti, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Christian Parenti</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> writer for the Nation, NPR, “The Nation: The Case for EPA Action]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">On April 1 </span>__the Environmental Protection … is our last, best hope.__

**Extinction**
**Tickell 08**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, 8-11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">We need to get prepared … us towards </span>__a__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> similar </span>__hothouse Earth__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

==Jobs Politics DA== 
===1NC=== 

**Tax cuts will make it through but only with pc and a scaled back agenda**
**Werner 10/25** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Erica Werner Reporter for Associated Press- 10/25/11, [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5ef]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Even </span>__his jobs bill has … to do everything he can."__


**Plan unpopular**
**Rendleman, 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

__Whether the DOD will decide …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">to support a winning space strategy.</span>

**Prevents Downgrade**
**Plumer 9/8/11** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Brad, a reporter on domestic policies for the washington post. (“Just How Effective is The Payroll Tax Cut?” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/just-how-effective-is-the-payroll-tax-cut/2011/09/08/gIQAodirCK_blog.html]]</span> AA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span class="Underline">Obama is expected to … at least avert further degradation.</span>

**Downgrade kills biotech**
**Pollack 8**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Andrew, "Broader Financial Turmoil Threatens Biotech’s Innovation and Cash," 10-28, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/29/business/29biotech.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1]</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For biotechnology companies</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, though, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the … threatened to dry up innovation.</span>__</span>

**Solves warming**
**Parikh 6**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> President and CEO of StratumOne Communications handling intellectual property issues involving patents [M.R. “Directed evolution of RuBisCO hypermorphs through genetic selection in engineered E.coli,”2/23, European Commission DG Environment News Alert, Using Biotechnology Against Global Warming, #11]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Reducing the rate of global … </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">greenhouse gasses </span>__</span>__from the atmosphere__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**Extinction**
**Tickell 08**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">We need to get prepared … us towards </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> similar </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">hothouse Earth</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>







==Weaponization== 
===1NC=== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the … may lurk in these details. </span>

**Pursuing space cooperation prevents crisis escalation even if weaponization is inevitable**
**Hayes, 9 -** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Lt Col, USAF, paper submitted to the Faculty of the Joint Advanced Warfighting School in partial satisfaction of the requirements of a Master of Science Degree in Joint Campaign Planning and Strategy (Tracey, “PROPOSAL FOR A COOPERATIVE SPACE STRATEGY WITH CHINA”, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada530117.pdf]])</span>

__Cooperation can prevent conflict escalation____, … , thus preventing potential crisis escalation__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Cooperation for contested and competitive … of responsible space-faring nations.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sabathier et. al 6</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a … cooperation would be more likely. </span>

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 6pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">would be unacceptable to all.</span>


**Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation**
**Krepon et al, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">While some have compared space … use of force in space.</span>

**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: black;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__</span>

===2NC Overview=== 

**Escalation in a space warfare is more likely than a terrestrial war**
**Krepon, 3**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – president of the Henry … /uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The inherent escalatory potential of … </span>__than in dominance__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and compellance. </span>

**The aff can’t win an external impact – a space war will render all of space unusable for thousands of years**
**Forden, 8**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If the short-term military … </span>__hundreds to thousands of years__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.14</span>

**Space war is more likely than a nuke war – dual characteristics**
**Shixiu** **7**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Bao, senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA of China, visiting scholar at the Virginia Military Institute//,// “Deterrence Revisited: Outer Space,” China Security, Winter, 2007, p2-11, [[http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf]]]</span>

__Space weapons__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and their use </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">of a “deterrent capability” in space.</span>


===2NC Uniqueness=== 


**Multilateralism is inev in the squo –the plan reverses that sign of cooperation - fuels confrontation and means the US cannot dictate terms of collaboration in the future.**
**Ridout 10 –** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Degree in international security studies and the U.S. foreign Policy (Timothy A. Ridout, The Huffington Post: Declining U.S. Space Power Requires Greater Cooperation, May 3 2010, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.huffingtonpost.com/timothy-a-ridout/declining-us-space-power_b_561101.html</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, A.D.)</span>

__In 2007, the Chinese blew up … **start laying the foundation now**.__

**Obama’s new National Space Policy is pursuing an informal code of conduct to prevent accidents in space now – but it will require bargaining and making concessions to create enforceable norms**
**Lewis, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - Senior Fellow and Director Technology and Public Policy Program Center for Strategic and International Studies (James, High Frontier, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy,” February, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]]</span>

__The Obama administration changed course …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">associated with the Cold War.</span>




==Security K== 
===1NC=== 

**The affirmatives disaster scenarios are mere constructions of threats that foster an environment of unending securitization.**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">David </span>**<span style="color: black;">Grondin,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200</span>**<span style="color: black;">4,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Neorealist and neoclassical realism offer … conditions of existence are generated18. </span>


**The construction of threats ensures any agencies of power to authorize force including annihilation and genocide**
**Coviello 2000** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Peter, Assist. Prof. of English @ Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations, "Apocalypse from Now On")</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Apocalypse, as I began by saying, … can scarcely be done without. </span>

**Vote neg to reject the 1ac’s securitized discourse. Critical praxis outweighs policy making - voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Graeme </span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>


<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This goal is pursued in … to understand them, and why?</span>

===**Overview**=== 

**Realism justifies nuclear first use as the ultimate deterrent- we’ll destroy until there’s nothing left**
**George ’94**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jim, Senior lecturer in international relations in the Department of Political Science, Australian National University, “Discourses of Global Politics: A Critical (Re)Introduction to International Relations,” p. 100, AM)</span>

__Throughout the behavioralist period the … about human nature and behavior.51__


===**Reps Come First**=== 

**Representations are intrinsically tied to policy action. Separation of discourse and representations from policy debate is impossible and discourse shapes the way these policies are enacted**
**Doty**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Assistant professor of Political Science at Arizona State University, </span>**96**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (“Imperial Encounters” page 5-6)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This study begins with the … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">political, military, and economic power. </span>__</span>


**And, reps come first**
**<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char">Crawford</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, </span>**02**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ (Neta, __Argument and Change in World Politics__, 2002 p. 19-21)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Coherent arguments </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">are unlikely to … </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">decisively wielded by norm entrepreneurs</span>

===**Threats Not Real**=== 

**And, Even if they win that their impacts are real, it only masks the root cause—questioning the securitization of the 1AC solves**
**Mack**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, former prof, </span>**91**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—former prof at Harvard Medical School. MD in Psychiatry. (John E., Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59)</span>

__Attempts to explore the psychological …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">will with anything approaching objectivity.”</span>

===<span class="Underline">**State Bad**</span>=== 

**Reliance on the state constructs the affirmative as a protection racket that attempts to legitimize exploitation and militarism through false rationalization to exhort the ballot**
**Peterson 92**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [V. Spike Peterson, “Gendered States: Feminist (re)visions of International Relations Theory”, p. 1992, p. 51-52, MA] </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What do we know about … </span>__parties to “contractual obligations.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">’ 10i) </span>
==Prizes CP== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tax incentive solves -- businesses will develop the tech</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">**Hudgins 2004** (Edward, formerly director of … .org/return-moon-not-nasa)</span>

__NASA will also need to …__ losses from such an exemption.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Private sector solves better -- and, has the capacity to deploy</span>**
**__Pelton, 2010__** [Joseph N., Research Professor with … space entrepreneurs too?,” __Space Policy__ 26 (2010) p. 78-80]

Anyone who rereads the Paine … outside will bring significant change [12]. pg. 78-80


==Declaratory Policy CP== 
===1NC=== 

**The United States federal government should make a classified, internal policy decision to not retaliate in the instance that U.S. space assets or infrastructure are attacked.**

**The United States federal government should declare that its nuclear weapons are purely defensive instruments of last resort whose sole purpose is to deter the use of nuclear weapons and to deter attacks on United States’ space assets or infrastructure.**

**And – Iraq proves that the government has the ability to make internal decisions that circumvent traditional policymaking channels**
**__Kassop, 2003__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Nancy, Professor at the State University of New York New Paltz, “The War Power and its Limits”, Presidential Studies Quarterly, Volume 33, Issue 3, September)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Kessler writes that “</span>__the____previously …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">war on terrorism.” (Kessler 2003, A01). </span>


**And – the counterplan’s declaration effectively deters attacks on U.S. space assets and support infrastructure**
**__Perry and Schlesinger et al, 2009__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (William J., Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution and the Michael and Barbara Berberian Professor at Stanford University, James R., Former Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Energy, “America’s Strategic Posture: The Final Report of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States”, U.S. Institute of Peace)</span>

__Declaratory policy is a signal of U.S. …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the point of nuclear exchange. </span>



=<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Neg Strategies</span>= 

==<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Wake</span>== 

===Round 1 vs USN JZ=== 
Aff - Space Tourism (Remove ITAR restrictions) with gtfo rock and economy
1NC - Weaponization DA, Security K, T-Commercial
Block - Weaponization
2NR - Weaponization

===Round 4 vs Pace SK=== 
Aff - SPSS with information and veritfication adv
1NC - Politics (SKFTA with free trade impacts), Spending, Prizes CP, Weaponization
Block - CP, Weaponization, and Politics
2NR - Weaponization

===Round 6 vs Gulliver LM=== 
Aff - HLV's industrial base and leadership
1NC - Prizes CP, SKFTA, Weaponization, Prolif Good (#winning)
Block - CP, SKFTA, Weaponization
2NR - SKFTA, CP

==Johns Creek== 

===I forget round 2 at the moment=== 

===Round 3 vs Henry W. Grady H? (Not Holden)=== 

Aff - Some DnG stuff with like debate being bad. I dont even know
1NC - Cut-up, Framework, Roleplaying Good
Block - Framework and Roleplaying Good
2NR - Framework and Roleplaying Good


==Michigan Juniors RR== 
===Round 2 vs Pace ES=== 
Aff - ORS with deterrence and coercive diplomacy
1NC - Weaponization DA, CoC/Nanosats CP, EPA Riders DA
Block - Weaponization and the CP
2NR - Weaponization and CP

===Round 4 vs Gulliver MZ=== 
Aff - Shoot down debris with a ground-based laser
1NC - Weaponization, Privatization, Topicality, EPA Riders DA
Block - Weaponization and T
2NR - T

===Round 7 vs Bronx Science BK=== 
Aff - ORS (deterrence and solar flare)
1NC - Security Kritik, No first use/Privatization CP, T-commercial, Jobs Politics, Case Turns
Block - Security and case turns
2NR - The K

===Round 9 vs Westminster PP=== 
Aff - Asteroid Detection
1NC - Security K, T-Human, Incentives CP, Jobs Bill Politics, NASA T-off
Block - Incentives CP and NASA T-off
2NR - CP and DA

==Lex== 
===Round 1 vs Stuyvesant CL=== 
Aff - SBMD China and Iran
1NC - Vagueness, T-Human, CoC CP, Weaponization DA and case D
Block - CoC CP, Weaponization DA and Case D
2NR - CoC CP, Weaponization DA and Case D
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]