=**AFFIRMATIVE**= 

**ToC Round 1 New Aff:**

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">TEXT – The United States federal judiciary should rule that the United States federal government must close all of its detention centers in Afghanistan on the ground that torture and detention at these facilities violates international human rights law.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Advantage 1 is Leadership:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Obama is transitioning away from the Bush doctrine but failure to end detention policy in Afghanistan will crush US leadership</span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Roth, 10 </span></span><span class="cardChar">[Kenneth Roth—attorney, executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993, “Empty Promises?”, Foreign Affairs Mar/Apr 2010. Vol. 89, Issue. 2; pg. 10, SM]</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">After eight years of the Bush administration, with its torture of suspected terrorists and disregard for international law</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Barack <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama's victory</span></span> in the November 2008 U.S. presidential election <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">seemed a breath of fresh air to human rights activists. Obama took office at a moment when the world </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">desperately needed renewed U.S. leadership</span></span>. In his inaugural address, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama immediately signaled that, unlike Bush, he would reject as false "the choice between our safety and our ideals</span></span>." <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama faces the challenge of </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">restoring the United States' credibility</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> at a time when repressive governments -- emboldened by the increasing influence of authoritarian powers such as China and Russia -- seek to undermine the enforcement of international human rights standards</span></span>. As he put it when accepting the Nobel Peace Prize, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States cannot "insist that others follow the rules of the road if we refuse to follow them ourselves</span></span>." <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">His Nobel speech in Oslo also affirmed the U.S. government's respect for the Geneva Conventions</span></span>. "Even as we confront a vicious adversary that abides by no rules," Obama argued, "I believe the United States of America must remain a standard bearer in the conduct of war. That is what makes us different from those whom we fight. That is a source of our strength." <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">When it comes to promoting human rights at home and abroad, there has undoubtedly been a marked improvement in presidential rhetoric</span></span>. However, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the translation of those words into deeds remains incomplete</span></span>. AN INCOMPLETE REVERSAL <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama moved rapidly to reverse the most abusive aspects of the Bush administration's approach to fighting terrorism</span></span>. Two days after taking office, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">he insisted that all U.S. interrogators, including those from the CIA, abide by the stringent standards adopted by the U.S. military in the wake of the Abu Ghraib debacle. He also ordered the shuttering of all secret CIA detention facilities</span></span>, where many suspects "disappeared" and were tortured between 2001 and 2008. Finally, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">he promised to close the detention center at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, within a year. But it is not enough for the government to stop using torture; perpetrators must also be punished. The Obama administration has so far refused to investigate and prosecute those who ordered or committed torture</span></span> -- a necessary step to prevent future administrations from committing the crime. While in office, as he did during the campaign, Obama has repeatedly spoken of wanting to "look forward, not back." And although Attorney General Eric Holder has launched a "preliminary review" of interrogators who exceeded orders, he has until now refrained from prosecuting those who ordered torture or wrote the legal memos justifying it. This lets senior officials -- arguably those who are most culpable -- off the hook. Meanwhile, Obama's one-year deadline for closing Guantánamo has slipped because of congressional opposition and the complexity of deciding how to handle the cases of more than 200 detainees. The real issue, however, is less when Guantánamo will close than how. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Human Rights Watch</span></span> and other nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">have urged the administration to prosecute detainees in regular federal courts, repatriate them, or resettle them in safe countries willing to accept them</span></span>. However, the <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">White House has insisted on maintaining two other options: prosecuting suspects before military commissions or </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">continuing to hold them indefinitely without charge or trial</span></span>. The Obama administration's military commissions would avoid the most problematic aspect of the Bush administration's commissions -- the power to introduce at trial statements obtained through coercion and abuse. But the Obama commissions, as approved by Congress, continue to suffer from a lack of independence (their judges are military officers, who must report to superiors in the chain of command), controversy about the offenses they cover (some are not clearly war crimes or were not clearly criminal at the time they were committed), and untested rules of procedure (unlike regular courts or even courts-martial, which have well-established procedures, the rules for military commissions are being constructed largely from scratch). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">These due process shortcomings are likely to keep the public and the press focused on the fairness of the trials accorded suspects, rather than the gravity of their alleged crimes</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama has also tried to distinguish himself from Bush in his approach to detaining suspects without charge or trial.</span></span> The new administration has abandoned Bush's claim of inherent executive authority and relied instead on an interpretation of Congress' 2001 authorization to use military force against al Qaeda, the Taliban, and associated groups. But <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">both approaches still permit the detention of suspects not captured on a traditional battlefield, such as in Afghanistan.</span></span> That is a controversial approach because <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it permits U.S. soldiers or law enforcement officials to indefinitely detain suspected terrorists anywhere in the world without regard to the due process standards of the United States or any other country</span></span>. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Obama's refusal to end the use of military commissions and detention without trial risks perpetuating the spirit of Guantánamo even after the physical facility has been shut</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The Bush administration had difficulty encouraging foreign leaders to respect human rights because of its perceived</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> arrogance, hypocrisy, </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> unilateralism</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">.</span></span> Since taking office, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama has worked hard to restore U.S. credibility</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama's speeches</span></span> in Accra, Cairo, Moscow, Oslo, and Shanghai <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">have been a key vehicle for promoting a renewed U.S. human rights agenda</span></span>. Rather than merely preaching abstract principles, Obama has drawn examples from the United States' checkered history and his own life story to encourage other nations to respect human rights. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The humility in this approach avoids Bush's hectoring tone and places the United States squarely within the community of nations as a country that, like others, struggles to respect human rights and benefits when it does so.</span></span> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">The Bush doctrine destroys international legitimacy – a reversal of indefinite detention will signal our commitment to multilateral institutions </span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Koh ’04</span></span> <span class="cardChar">[Harold Hongju, Dean and Gerard C. & Bernice Latrobe Smith Professor of International Law, Yale Law School, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, 1998-2001, Berkeley Journal of International Law, Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Turning to the United States, the final member of the "axis of disobedience," <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">our greatest surprise should be how quickly after September 11th we turned the story from the non-compliance of others with international law, to our own non-compliance. Examples abound</span></span>: first and most obviously, the U.S. unsigning of the International Criminal Court Treaty; second, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the U.S. attitude towards the Geneva Conventions</span></span> - <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">including its</span></span> actions in Abu Ghraib, its <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">decision to create zones in Guantanamo in which people are being held without Geneva Convention rights</span></span> </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n42|42]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">as well as to designate certain U.S. citizens within the United States as enemy combatants</span></span>; </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n43|43]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and third, the death penalty, which [*349] has become a growing irritant in the relationship between the United States and the European Union, even in the war against terrorism<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. What we are witnessing is nothing less than an assault by our government on the transnational legal process that we created after World War II in our own perceived national interest</span></span>. Remember the history. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">After WWII, the United States constructed a world public order devoted to liberal internationalism</span></span>. Its effectiveness was muted by the intense bipolarity of the Cold War. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">But after the Berlin Wall fell - from 1989 to 2001 - an era of global optimism ensued in which the United States tried to revive the notion of using global cooperation to solve global problems, such as war crimes, global warming, trade imbalances, absence of democracy, development, AIDS, transnational crime, and drugs. The approach adopted by the United States was simple: more diplomacy, more human rights, more democracy, more legal process</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">To maintain this structure of global cooperation, the United States supported the creation of an elaborate legal framework, a legal exoskeleton</span></span> if you will, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to constrain and facilitate its own actions. Then came September 11th, the classic global problem to be solved by global cooperation. But the</span></span> Bush <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">administration chose to respond to that crisis not within the existing post-war framework</span></span> - not by using the existing legal exoskeleton - but <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">instead by creating a new architectural counter-response, what I call "The Bush Doctrine."</span></span> Three years later, five <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">elements of the Bush Doctrine have clearly emerged</span></span>: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n44|44]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1. Achilles and his heel. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">After September 11th, the United States became intensely aware that, like Achilles, we are a superpower, but with super-vulnerability. To respond, the Bush Doctrine has resolved to use our superpower status to protect our super-vulnerability</span></span>. 2. The chosen means, the promotion of Homeland Security, in both the defensive and preemptive sense. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">To protect our vulnerability, we employ domestic security, immigration control, security detention, information awareness, even while asserting under international law a novel right forcibly to disarm any country that presents a gathering threat to our security.</span></span> 3. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This concept is supported by a dramatic Shift in our Focus on Human Rights</span></span>. In 1941, Franklin Delano Roosevelt had set the global standard for human rights by setting our sights on the four freedoms: freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom from want, and freedom from fear. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n45|45]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Yet <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bush administration officials have reset our human rights priorities to say that only one freedom really counts, and that is freedom from fear. They have created a two-pronged strategy of extralegal zones, predominantly in Guantanamo, where they have effectively asserted that no law applies, and extralegal persons, so-called "enemy combatants,"</span></span> who may, like Jose Padilla, be U.S. citizens held on American soil. [*350] 4. Top-down democracy promotion. Our strategy for democracy-promotion has shifted from "bottom-up democracy" to "top-down democracy." Since the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, democracy-promotion efforts have shifted toward militarily imposed democracy, characterized by United States-led military attack, prolonged occupation, restored opposition leaders and the creation of resource-needy post-conflict protectorates. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n46|46]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Globally, a four-pronged strategy seems to be emerging: "Hard," militarily imposed democracy promotion in Iraq and Afghanistan; "soft," diplomatic democracy promotion in Palestine; optimistic predictions of "domino democratization" elsewhere in the Middle East; and reduced democracy-promotion efforts elsewhere. 5. Strategic Unilateralism/Tactical Multilateralism. Fifth and finally, if the Clinton administration had pursued its foreign policy goals through what my friend Strobe Talbott has called "Strategic Multilateralism and Tactical Unilateralism," <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the Bush administration has shifted</span></span> instead <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to an approach characterized by "Strategic Unilateralism and Tactical Multilateralism." Avoiding genuine multilateral consultation, the United States has acted alone, enlisting for multilateral "cover" those other nations it can persuade or coerce to go along.</span></span> If this is the emerging approach, what is wrong with it? First, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">instead of promoting universal values, the United States has promoted double standards by which other nations are held accountable to human rights standards from which the United States exempts itself</span></span>. The recent horrors at Abu Ghraib show that the United States is now reaping the whirlwind of its strategy of condoning wide-scale departures from traditional prisoner-of-war protections. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">By treating these legal regimes as a nuisance to be disregarded in the war against terrorism, the</span></span> Bush <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">administration forgot the critical role that these legal protections play both in protecting our troops from violations and in protecting our country from needless humiliation by conduct that most Americans find abhorrent</span></span>. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n47|47]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Second, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">by engaging in this unilateralism, the United States has diminished its standing in the international regimes in which it takes part, limiting its "soft power" or its power to persuade in the global arena</span></span>. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n48|48]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">We see this diminished standing in our mounting incapacity to mobilize other countries to help us in the daunting task of rebuilding Iraq</span></span>. Third and most sadly, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">this strategy has converted us from the major supporter of the post-war global legal exoskeleton into the most visible </span></span>[*351] <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">outlier trying to break free of the very legal framework we created and supported for half a century</span></span>. So this, in a nutshell, is my diagnosis: the United States has unwisely avoided the channels of transnational legal process with respect to North Korea, Iraq, and its own conduct. But if that is the problem, what is the solution? Quite simply, the United States and those within it who are committed to the rule of law should now invoke transnational legal process as a way to address the continuing problems in each case. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n49|49]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In North Korea, as I have already said, the obvious solution is to negotiate another Agreed Framework - a transnational legal process solution that continues the process of norm-internalization with respect to a ban on nuclear weapons that was so unwisely abrogated when the Bush administration took office. Now that we have occupied Iraq, our goal must similarly be norm-internalization: the promotion of a domestic constitutional reform that internalizes international human rights norms into the emerging Iraqi legal system, with the goal of promoting a fundamental transformation in the character of the country. And what about the United States? On the one hand, America is the toughest case because it is the most powerful nation in the world. On the other hand, there are so many legal, political, and social channels through which norms can seep into U.S. law - what I have elsewhere called channels of legal, political and social internalization - that the United States should be the most permeable society of the three to international influence. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Our efforts to renounce transnational legal process have only triggered a counter-response</span></span>. Take, for example, the International Criminal Court (ICC). The Bush administration unsigned that court's treaty, hoping that that would be the end of America's relationship with it. But we should realize that every future act by which the United States cooperates with the ICC constitutes a de facto repudiation of the political act of unsigning. Over time, the new prosecutor's office in the ICC can internalize guidelines for responsible prosecution. Advocates of the ICC within the United States can try to develop support for it. Most of all, the United States can engage in case-by-case cooperation with the ICC over particular cases, such as the prosecutions recently brought with respect to Uganda and the Congo or by honoring requests for the provision of classified information within U.S. control. My point is that as much as the Bush administration may wish to be free of the legal exoskeleton that the United States has helped create, already that legal framework is visibly pushing back. A successor administration could gradually reengage with the Court on a piecemeal basis, restoring our national respect for and within that evolving institution. Similarly, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">with regard to the Geneva Conventions and Guantanamo, U.S. conduct has not gone unchallenged, but</span></span> rather, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">has been aggressively litigated in a variety of fora</span></span>, not just in U.S. courts, but in the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n50|50]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> before the British courts, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n51|51]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and increasingly, before the U. [*352] S. Supreme Court. At this writing, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">three cases have been argued before the U.S. Supreme Court this term</span></span> - the Guantanamo cases arising from the D.C. Circuit, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n52|52]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the Jose Padilla case in the Second Circuit </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n53|53]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and the Yasser Hamdi case in the Fourth Circuit. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n54|54]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Each of these cases asks whether U.S. conduct is consistent with the Geneva Conventions as well as the U.S. national interest and tests the extent to which our Supreme Court will internalize these international standards into U.S. law</span></span>. And what about the death penalty? As I speak, advocates of transnational legal process are bringing suits throughout the United States in an effort by the government of Mexico to force reconsideration of U.S. state death sentences imposed upon 51 Mexican nationals who were arrested and convicted and sentenced to death in U.S. courts without receiving the consular notification required under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n55|55]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Similarly, landmark litigation is currently pending before the U.S. Supreme Court challenging the constitutionality of the juvenile death penalty under both domestic and international law. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n56|56]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> At this writing, the United States and Somalia are the only two countries in the world that permit the execution of juveniles, inasmuch as they are the only two countries that have not ratified the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n57|57]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Since 1989, the United States has carried out more publicly reported executions of juvenile offenders than any other country in the world. In 1999, the only country other than the United States to admit to executing a juvenile offender was Iran. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n58|58]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> As abolition of the death penalty has become a cornerstone of European human rights policy, Central and Eastern European countries who aspire to enter the European system have increasingly calculated that the benefits of joining the European political and economic system [*353] far exceed any benefits that might result from the occasional use of the death penalty against juveniles. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n59|59]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Thus, from 1994-2003, Amnesty International recorded twenty executions of child offenders in only five countries: Democratic Republic of the Congo, Iran, Pakistan, Nigeria, and - the leader, with 13 - the United States. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n60|60]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Of these, "the only country that openly continues to execute child offenders within the framework of its regular criminal justice system is the USA." </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n61|61]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Even within the United States, executions of child offenders since 1973 have been carried out in just seven states, with over two-thirds being committed by Texas and Virginia. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n62|62]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Given these facts, any commonsense understanding of a ban against "cruel and unusual punishments" should now include a practice that is deemed not just unusual, but illegal by all but five countries in the world and all but a few states even in this country. Thus, Roper v. Simmons, a case that will be heard by the U.S. Supreme Court early in the 2004 Term, presents the next major challenge for transnational legal process. In that case, as in the September 11th cases, the Court will decide whether to internalize foreign and international law into its constitutional analysis. In particular, the Court will have to decide whether, under evolving standards of decency, state executions of child offenders now violate the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution. How these cases are resolved remains to be seen. But <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">there should be no doubt that in each of these areas, the battleground will be the realm of transnational legal process. In each area</span></span> - North Korea, Iraq, the ICC<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, the Geneva Conventions, Guantanamo</span></span>, the death penalty - <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the question will be the same: whether interactions can be brought in appropriate fora that will lead to interpretations of international law that will eventually internalize these global norms into the domestic law of the resisting nation</span></span>. Conclusion In closing, I hope I have convinced you that same-sex sodomy, affirmative action, North Korea, Iraq, Guantanamo, enemy combatants, the juvenile death penalty, and the ICC are all features of transnational legal process after September 11th. But increasingly, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">in a post September 11th world, I believe we are facing a new kind of Jeopardy</span></span> - to coin a phrase. On the one hand, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States has long recognized and urged a norm-based approach to international cooperation</span></span>, what I call a strategy of "norm-based internalization." <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">But in recent months, the United States has been trying to break free from the very legal structure - the </span></span>[*354] <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">very legal exoskeleton it created after World War II - by pursuing a Bush Doctrine that rests instead on a narrow theory of coercive, power-based internationalism</span></span>. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=253b75cc90e411b4e6ec90548f9ab94d&docnum=4&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAt&_md5=ae8f133df9cf39b0aeca11a1f558e6a8&focBudTerms=%2522multilateralism%2522%20%20AND%20%2522geneva%20convention%2522%20AND%20%2522United%20States%2522%20AND%20%2522Guantanamo%2522&focBudSel=all#n63|63]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> We will see how this tension is resolved in the months ahead. But I, for one, believe that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">as a nation conceived in liberty, and dedicated to certain inalienable rights, the United States has very strong impulses to address the world not just in the language of power, but more fundamentally, in the language of power coupled with principle</span></span>. We, as scholars, lawyers, thinkers and activists who care about the rule of law, should not just be bystanders at this pivotal time. Each of us should do what we can to use transnational legal process after September 11th to prod this country that we love to follow the better angels of our national nature. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Court ruling against detention policy restores foreign policy credibility and US moral authority – that’s key to leadership </span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Knowles, ‘09</span></span> <span class="cardChar">[Robert Knowles—Acting assistant Professor @ New York University School of Law, “American Hegemony and the Foreign Affairs Constitution,” Arizona State Law Journal, 41 Ariz. St. L.J. 87, October, SM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bush Administration’s detainee policy</span></span>, for all of its virtues and faults, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">was an exceedingly aggressive departure from existing norms, and was therefore bound to generate intense controversy</span></span>. It was formulated quickly, by a small group of policy-makers and legal advisors without consulting Congress and over the objections of even some within the executive branch. 424 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Although the Administration invoked the law of armed conflict to justify its detention of enemy combatants, it did not seem to recognize limits imposed by that law. </span></span>425 Most significantly, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it designed the detention scheme around interrogation rather than incapacitation and excluded the detainees from all legal protections of the Geneva Conventions</span></span>. 426 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It declared all detainees</span></span> at Guantánamo <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to be “enemy combatants” without establishing a regularized process for making an individual determination for each detainee</span></span>. 427 And <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">when it established the military commissions, also without consulting Congress, the Administration denied defendants important procedural protections</span></span>. In an anarchic world characterized by great power conflict, one could make the argument that the executive branch requires maximum flexibility to defeat the enemy, who may not adhere to international law. Indeed, the precedents relied on most heavily by the Administration in the enemy combatant cases date from the 1930s and 1940s—a period when the international system was radically unstable, and the United States was one of several great powers vying for advantage. 429 But during that time, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the executive branch faced much more exogenous pressure from other great powers to comply with international law in the treatment of captured enemies</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">If the United States strayed too far from established norms, it would risk retaliation upon its own soldiers or other consequences from powerful rivals</span></span>. Today, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">there are no such constraints: enemies such as al Qaeda are not great powers and are not likely to obey international law anyway</span></span>. Instead, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">danger is that American rule-breaking will set a pattern of rule-breaking for the world, leading to instability</span></span>. 430 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">America’s military predominance enables it to set the rules of the game. When the U.S. breaks its own rules, it loses legitimacy.</span></span> The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Supreme Court’s response to the detainee policy enabled the U.S. government as a whole to hew more closely to established procedures and norms, and to regularize the process for departing from them.</span></span> After Hamdi 431 , the Department of Defense established a process, the CSRTs, for making an individual determination about the enemy combatant status of all detainees at Guantánamo. After the Court recognized habeas jurisdiction at Guantánamo, Congress passed the DTA 432 , establishing direct judicial review of CSRT determinations in lieu of habeas. Similarly, after the Court declared the military commissions unlawful in Hamdan 433 , this forced the Administration to seek congressional approval for commissions that restored some of the rights afforded at courts martial. 434 In Boumediene, the Court rejected the executive branch’s foreign policy arguments, and bucked Congress as well, to restore the norm of habeas review. 435 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Throughout this enemy combatant litigation, it has been the courts’ relative insulation from politics that has enabled them to take the long view.</span></span> In contrast, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the President’s</span></span> (and Congress’s) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">responsiveness to political concerns in the wake of 9/11 has encouraged them to depart from established norms for the nation’s perceived short-term advantage, even at the expense of the nation’s long-term interests.</span></span> 436 As Professors Derek Jinks and Neal Katyal have observed, “[t]<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">reaties are part of [a] system of timetested standards, and this feature makes the wisdom of their judicial interpretation manifest</span></span>.” 437 At the same time, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the enemy combatant cases make allowances for the executive branch’s superior speed</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The care that the Court took to limit the issues it decided in each case gave the executive branch plenty of time to arrive at an effective detainee policy. </span></span>438 Hamdi, Rasul, and Boumediene recognized that the availability of habeas would depend on the distance from the battlefield and the length of detention. 439 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The enemy combatant litigation also underscores the extent to which the classic realist assumptions about courts’ legitimacy in foreign affairs have been turned on their head</span></span>. In an anarchic world, legitimacy derives largely from brute force<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. The courts have no armies at their disposal and look weak when they issue decisions that cannot be enforced</span></span>. 440 But <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">in a hegemonic system, where governance depends on voluntary acquiescence, the courts have a greater role to play.</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Rather than hobbling the exercise of foreign policy</span></span>, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the courts are a key form of “soft power.”</span></span> 441 As Justice Kennedy’s majority opinion observed in Boumediene,<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> courts can bestow external legitimacy on the acts of the political branches</span></span>. 442 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Acts having a basis in law are almost universally regarded as more legitimate than merely political acts.</span></span> Most foreign policy experts believe that <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the Bush Administration’s detention scheme “hurt America’s image and standing in the world.”</span></span> 443 <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The restoration of habeas corpus </span></span>in Boumediene <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">may help begin to counter-act this loss of prestige</span></span>. Finally, the enemy combatant cases are striking in that they embrace a role for representation-reinforcement in the international realm. 444 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Although <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">defenders of special deference acknowledge that courts’ strengths lie in protecting the rights of minorities, it has been very difficult for courts to protect these rights in the face of exigencies asserted by the executive branch in foreign affairs matters. This is especially difficult when the minorities are alleged enemy aliens being held outside the sovereign territory of the United States in wartime</span></span>. In the infamous Korematsu decision, another World War II-era case, the Court bowed to the President’s factual assessment of the emergency justifying detention of U.S. citizens of Japanese ancestry living in the United States. 445 In Boumediene, the Court pointedly declined to defer to the executive branch’s factual assessments of military necessity. 446<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> The court may have recognized that a more aggressive role in protecting the rights of non-citizens was required by American hegemony</span></span>. In fact, as Professor Katyal has pointed out, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the arguments for deference with respect to the rights of non-citizens are even weaker because aliens lack a political constituency in the United States</span></span>. 447 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This outwardlooking form of representation-reinforcement serves important functions</span></span>. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">It strengthens the legitimacy of U.S. hegemony by establishing equality as a benchmark and reinforces the sense that our constitutional values reflect universal human rights. </span></span>When it comes to the constitutional regime of foreign affairs, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">geopolitics has always mattered</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Understandings about America’s role in the world have shaped foreign affairs doctrines.</span></span> But the classic realist assumptions that support special deference do not reflect the world as it is today. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">A better, more realist, approach looks to the ways that the courts can reinforce and legitimize American hegemony</span></span>. The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Supreme Court’s rejection of the government’s claimed exigencies in the enemy combatant cases strongly indicates that the Judiciary is becoming reconciled to the current world order and is asserting its prerogatives in response to the increased projection of American power abroad by the Executive</span></span>. In other words, the courts are moving toward the hegemonic model. In the great dismal swamp that is the judicial treatment of foreign affairs, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">this transformation offers hope for clarity: the positive reality of the international system, despite terrorism and other serious challenges, permits the courts to reduce the “deference gap” between foreign and domestic cases.</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Multilateral leadership through legitimacy solves all global problems</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Kromah ’09 <span class="cardChar">[Lamii Moivi Kromah, Dept IR University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11,” </span></span>[[@http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf]]<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">]</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">A final major gain to the</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">U</span></span>nited <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">from</span></span> the <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">benevolent hegemony</span></span> has perhaps been less widely appreciated. It nevertheless <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">proved of great significance</span></span> in the short as well as in the long term: <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the pervasive cultural influence of the United States</span></span>.39 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This dimension of power base is often neglected</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">After World War II the authoritarian political cultures of Europe and Japan were utterly discredited, and the liberal democratic elements of those cultures revivified</span></span>. The revival was most extensive and deliberate in the occupied powers of the Axis, where it was nurtured by drafting democratic constitutions, building democratic institutions, curbing the power of industrial trusts by decartelization and the rebuilding of trade unions, and imprisoning or discrediting much of the wartime leadership. American liberal ideas largely filled the cultural void. The effect was not so dramatic in the "victor" states whose regimes were reaffirmed (Britain, the Low and Scandinavian countries), but even there the United States and its culture was widely admired. The upper classes may often have thought it too "commercial," but in manzy respects American mass consumption culture was the most pervasive part of America's impact. American styles, tastes, and middle-class consumption patterns were widely imitated, in a process that' has come to bear the label "coca-colonization."40 After WWII policy makers in the USA set about remaking a world to facilitate peace. The hegemonic project involves using political and economic advantages gained in world war to restructure the operation of the world market and interstate system in the hegemon's own image. The interests of the leader are projected on a universal plane: What is good for the hegemon is good for the world. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The hegemonic state is successful to the degree that other states emulate it</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Emulation is the basis of the consent that lies at the heart of the hegemonic project</span></span>.41 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Since wealth depended on peace the U.S set about creating institutions and regimes that promoted free trade, and peaceful conflict resolution</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">U.S. benevolent hegemony is what has kept the peace since the end of WWII</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The upshot is that U.S. hegemony and liberalism have produced the most stable and durable political order that the world has seen</span></span> since the fall of the Roman Empire. It is not as formally or highly integrated as the European Union, but it is just as profound and robust as a political order, Kant’s Perpetual Peace requires that the system be diverse and not monolithic because then tyranny will be the outcome. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">As long as the system allows for democratic states to press claims and resolve conflicts, the system will perpetuate itself peacefully</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A state such as the United States that has achieved international primacy has every reason to attempt to maintain that primacy</span></span> through peaceful means so as to preclude the need of having to fight a war to maintain it.42 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This view of the post-hegemonic Western world does not put a great deal of emphasis on U.S. leadership</span></span> in the traditional sense. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">U.S. leadership takes the form of providing the venues and mechanisms for articulating demands and resolving disputes</span></span> not unlike the character of politics within domestic pluralistic systems.43 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">America as a big and powerful state has an incentive to organize and manage a political order that is considered legitimate by the other states</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is not in a hegemonic leader's interest to preside over a global order that requires constant use of material capabilities to get other states to go along. Legitimacy exists when political order is based on reciprocal consent</span></span>. It emerges when secondary states buy into rules and norms of the political order as a matter of principle, and not simply because they are forced into it. But <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">if a hegemonic power wants to encourage the emergence of a legitimate political order, it must articulate principles and norms, and engage in negotiations and compromises that have very little to do with the exercise of power</span></span>.44 So should this hegemonic power be called leadership, or domination? Well, it would tend toward the latter. Hierarchy has not gone away from this system. Core states have peripheral areas: colonial empires and neo-colonial backyards. Hegemony, in other words, involves a structure in which there is a hegemonic core power. The problem with calling this hegemonic power "leadership" is that leadership is a wonderful thing-everyone needs leadership. But sometimes I have notice that leadership is also an ideology that legitimates domination and exploitation. In fact, this is often the case. But this is a different kind of domination than in earlier systems. Its difference can be seen in a related question: is it progressive? Is it evolutionary in the sense of being better for most people in the system? I think it actually is a little bit better. The trickle down effect is bigger-it is not very big, but it is bigger.45 It is to this theory, Hegemonic Stability that the glass slipper properly belongs, because both U.S. security and economic strategies fit the expectations of hegemonic stability theory more comfortably than they do other realist theories. We must first discuss the three pillars that U.S. hegemony rests on structural, institutional, and situational. (1) Structural leadership refers to the underlying distribution of material capabilities that gives some states the ability to direct the overall shape of world political order. Natural resources, capital, technology, military force, and economic size are the characteristics that shape state power, which in turn determine the capacities for leadership and hegemony. If leadership is rooted in the distribution of power, there is reason to worry about the present and future. The relative decline of the United States has not been matched by the rise of another hegemonic leader. At its hegemonic zenith after World War II, the United States commanded roughly forty five percent of world production. It had a remarkable array of natural resource, financial, agricultural, industrial, and technological assets. America in 1945 or 1950 was not just hegemonic because it had a big economy or a huge military; it had an unusually wide range of resources and capabilities. This situation may never occur again. As far as one looks into the next century, it is impossible to see the emergence of a country with a similarly commanding power position. (2) Institutional <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">leadership refers to the rules and practices that states agree to that set in place principles and procedures that guide their relations</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is not power capabilities as such or the interventions of specific states that facilitate concerted action, but the rules and mutual expectations that are established as institutions</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Institutions are</span></span>, in a sense, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">self-imposed constraints that states create to assure continuity in their relations and to facilitate the realization of mutual interests</span></span>. A common theme of recent discussions of the management of the world economy is that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">institutions will need to play a greater role in the future in providing leadership in the absence of American hegemony</span></span>. Bergsten argues, for example, that "institutions themselves will need to play a much more important role.46 Institutional management is important and can generate results that are internationally greater than the sum of their national parts. The argument is not that international institutions impose outcomes on states, but that institutions shape and constrain how states conceive and pursue their interests and policy goals. They provide channels and mechanisms to reach agreements. They set standards and mutual expectations concerning how states should act. They "bias" politics in internationalist directions just as, presumably, American hegemonic leadership does. (3) Situational leadership refers to the actions and initiatives of states that induce cooperation quite apart from the distribution of power or the array of institutions. It is more cleverness or the ability to see specific opportunities to build or reorient international political order, rather than the power capacities of the state, that makes a difference. In this sense, leadership really is expressed in a specific individual-in a president or foreign minister-as he or she sees a new opening, a previously unidentified passage forward, a new way to define state interests, and thereby transforms existing relations. Hegemonic stability theorists argue that international politics is characterized by a succession of hegemonies in which a single powerful state dominates the system as a result of its victory in the last hegemonic war.47 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Especially after the cold war America can be described as trying to keep its position at the top but also integrating others more thoroughly in the international system that it dominates</span></span>. It is assumed that the <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">differential growth of power in a state system would undermine the status quo and lead to hegemonic war</span></span> between declining and rising powers48, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">but I see a different pattern</span></span>: <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the U.S. hegemonic stability promoting liberal institutionalism</span></span>, the events following 9/11 are a brief abnormality from this path, but the general trend will be toward institutional liberalism. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Hegemonic states are the crucial components in military alliances that turn back the major threats to mutual sovereignties and hence political domination of the system</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Instead of being territorially aggressive and eliminating other states, hegemons respect other's territory. They aspire to be leaders and hence are upholders of inter-stateness and inter-territoriality</span></span>.49 The nature of the institutions themselves must, however, be examined. They were shaped in the years immediately after World War II by the United States. The American willingness to establish institutions, the World Bank to deal with finance and trade, United Nations to resolve global conflict, NATO to provide security for Western Europe, is explained in terms of the theory of collective goods. It is commonplace in the regimes literature that the United States, in so doing, was providing not only private goods for its own benefit but also (and perhaps especially) collective goods desired by, and for the benefit of, other capitalist states and members of the international system in general. (Particular care is needed here about equating state interest with "national" interest.) Not only was the United States protecting its own territory and commercial enterprises, it was providing military protection for some fifty allies and almost as many neutrals. Not only was it ensuring a liberal, open, near-global economy for its own prosperity, it was providing the basis for the prosperity of all capitalist states and even for some states organized on noncapitalist principles (those willing to abide by the basic rules established to govern international trade and finance). While such behaviour was not exactly selfless or altruistic, certainly the benefits-however distributed by class, state, or region-did accrue to many others, not just to Americans.50 For the truth about U.S. dominant role in the world is known to most clear-eyed international observers. And the truth is that the benevolent hegemony exercised by the United States is good for a vast portion of the world's population. It is certainly a better international arrangement than all realistic alternatives. To undermine it would cost many others around the world far more than it would cost Americans-and far sooner. As Samuel Huntington wrote five years ago, before he joined the plethora of scholars disturbed by the "arrogance" of American hegemony; "A world without U.S. primacy will be a world with more violence and disorder and less democracy and economic growth than a world where the United States continues to have more influence than any other country shaping global affairs”.51 I argue that the overall American-shaped system is still in place. It is this macro political system-a legacy of American power and its liberal polity that remains and serves to foster agreement and consensus. This is precisely what people want when they look for U.S. leadership and hegemony.52 If the U.S. retreats from its hegemonic role, who would supplant it, not Europe, not China, not the Muslim world –and certainly not the United Nations. Unfortunately, the alternative to a single superpower is not a multilateral utopia, but the anarchic nightmare of a New Dark Age. Moreover, the alternative to unipolarity would not be multipolarity at all. It would be ‘apolarity’ –a global vacuum of power.53 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Since the end of WWII the United States has been the clear and dominant leader politically, economically and military. But its leadership as been unique; it has not been tyrannical, its leadership and hegemony has focused on relative gains and has forgone absolute gains. The difference lies in the exercise of power</span></span>. The strength acquired by the United States in the aftermath of World War II was far greater than any single nation had ever possessed, at least since the Roman Empire. America's share of the world economy, the overwhelming superiority of its military capacity-augmented for a time by a monopoly of nuclear weapons and the capacity to deliver them--gave it the choice of pursuing any number of global ambitions. That the American people "might have set the crown of world empire on their brows," as one British statesman put it in 1951, but chose not to, was a decision of singular importance in world history and recognized as such.54 Leadership is really an elegant word for power. To exercise leadership is to get others to do things that they would not otherwise do. It involves the ability to shape, directly or indirectly, the interests or actions of others. Leadership may involve the ability to not just "twist arms" but also to get other states to conceive of their interests and policy goals in new ways. This suggests a second element of leadership, which involves not just the marshalling of power capabilities and material resources. It also involves the ability to project a set of political ideas or principles about the proper or effective ordering of po1itics. It suggests the ability to produce concerted or collaborative actions by several states or other actors. Leadership is the use of power to orchestrate the actions of a group toward a collective end.55 By validating regimes and norms of international behaviour the U.S. has given incentives for actors, small and large, in the international arena to behave peacefully. The uni-polar U.S. dominated order has led to a stable international system. Woodrow Wilson’s zoo of managed relations among states as supposed to his jungle method of constant conflict. The U.S. through various international treaties and organizations as become a quasi world government; It resolves the problem of provision by imposing itself as a centralized authority able to extract the equivalent of taxes. The focus of the theory thus shifts from the ability to provide a public good to the ability to coerce other states. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A benign hegemon in this sense coercion should be understood as benign and not tyrannical</span></span>. If significant continuity in the ability of the United States to get what it wants is accepted, then it must be explained. The explanation starts with our noting that the institutions for political and economic cooperation have themselves been maintained. Keohane rightly stresses the role of institutions as "arrangements permitting communication and therefore facilitating the exchange of information. By providing reliable information and reducing the costs of transactions, institutions can permit cooperation to continue even after a hegemon's influence has eroded. Institutions provide opportunities for commitment and for observing whether others keep their commitments. Such opportunities are virtually essential to cooperation in non-zero-sum situations, as gaming experiments demonstrate. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Declining hegemony and stagnant (but not decaying) institutions may therefore be consistent with a stable provision of desired outcomes, although the ability to promote new levels of cooperation to deal with new problems (e.g., energy supplies, environmental protection) is more problematic. Institutions nevertheless provide a part of the necessary explanation</span></span>.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">No risk of a turn – power is not the same as leadership – only international legitimacy can create an effective US-led international order</span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Fakiolas,’07</span></span> <span class="cardChar">[<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#front|Efstathios T. Fakiolas]]</span> holds a PhD from the Department of War Studies, King's College London, and is currently working as a strategy and southeastern European affairs analyst at ATEbank AND <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#front|Tassos E. Fakiolas]]</span> holds a PhD from IMEMO, Moscow, Russian Academy of Sciences and is a special adviser on Russian and east European affairs for a Greek business firm., “Pax Americana or Multilateralism?”, Mediterranean Quarterly 18.4 (2007) 53-86, SM]</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The vision</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, we suggest, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">embraces an unequivocal grand strategic perspective in the sense that it invokes specific grandiose aspirations described as the "Bush vision of hegemony</span></span>." More specifically, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">this vision exemplifies the firm determination of US leadership to pursue and achieve world-scale hegemony, in order to foster global preeminence and win the war on terror through the grand strategy of preventive war and assertive engagement</span></span>. Yet <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States remains cool to the possibility of getting involved in non-American-inspired institutionalized multilateral frameworks of cooperation or security regimes</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bush today "has </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">a decidedly more unilateralist bent</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">" and increasingly manipulates the "threat and use of military power to enforce" American will, with a view to "keeping such rivals</span></span>" as the European Union, China, and Russia [End Page 53] "<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">subordinate" while dealing with America's enemies</span></span>.[[#REF1]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT1|1]]</span> In other words, he is seeking to take advantage of US unipolarity to its fullest and establish an American-built and American-led international system, a hegemonic world order grounded in strong bilateral ties with loyal great powers and regional partners operating within a noninstitutionalized coalition of the willing. But <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the reality</span></span>, as, for example, Stephen Walt sketches out, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">is rather more complicated and troublesome: </span></span>This <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">image of global dominance is undeniably appealing to some Americans, but the history of the past few years also demonstrates how infeasible it is</span></span>. . . . <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bush has embraced many of the policies [of global hegemony], but the rest of the world has not reacted positively.</span></span> The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bush administration has been scornful of existing institutions and dismissive of other states' opinions, emphasizing instead the unilateral use of American power to "promote liberty" and preempt potential threats</span></span>. The result? <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">America's global standing has plummeted, and with it the ability to attract active support from many of its traditional allies</span></span>.[[#REF2]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT2|2]] Along a similar though not identical line of reasoning, we argue that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">currently the United States is enjoying an unprecedented unipolar moment of global primacy, but without having evolved into the world's hegemon</span></span>. The problem is that Bush's America is striving to get its way and take up a hegemonic leadership role all of its own. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Being reluctant to commit itself to an institutionalized framework of international cooperation with other great powers, there is convincing evidence that it aims to establish a Pax Americana</span></span>. The crucial dimension is that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it has so far failed to convince and unconditionally tie great powers, other than the United Kingdom and Japan, together in the global war on terror</span></span>; in essence, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the United States has failed to legitimize </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the fight against terrorism in the eyes of European and Arab politicians and societies </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">and, under this guise, </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> construct a unipolar American security order.</span></span> The vision of this form of hegemony has been contradicted by the aftermath of the war in Iraq. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This has been the crash test that has underscored</span></span> [End Page 54] <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the limits of US global power, aggravated as they have been by the unwillingness of the European Union, Russia, and China to cultivate relations within an American-inspired and American-led international system</span></span>. It is precisely this overall consideration that we seek to address and detail. A caveat is appropriate, nevertheless. We take for granted the determining impact of the interplay of the international system and domestic structure on state behavior. In assuming the enabling or disposing importance of structural conditions to shaping and portraying grand strategy, we go beyond accounts of the international systemic and the domestic structural context of US strategic choices and steps and how these relate to US interests and their discursive and representational aspects. In this study we examine the United States–led war on terror and the ensuing military engagement in Iraq through the lens of a particular conceptual approach to power in order to suggest a policy-relevant theoretical argument regarding the connection between the United States' grand strategic objectives and its global power. From this standpoint, we focus on the power and the strategic dimension rather than purely on the structural dynamics of the American vision of hegemony. Hence, in the light of the existing correlates of global and regional power and of how US grand strategy is practiced, underpinned, and legitimated, in this essay we trace and map out the link between power and hegemonic aspirations by shedding light on the strategic perspective of whether Washington is able to attain hegemony in the form of a Pax Americana. Power and Pax Americana Before proceeding to spell out our argument, some necessary comments as to the way we go about the analysis of the subject matter are put forth in this section. How the theoretical perspective is explicated and how concepts are coined is critical for the argument. The theoretical statements and the terms we use are analytical devices that abstract reality for the purposes of categorization and description while simultaneously serving as building blocs of approximating reality at a general level of abstraction. To begin <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">with security, we conceptualize it as the freedom from threats of all sorts</span></span>, a "material" element that sets the stage for states to develop and preserve international and domestic conditions that promote their professed [End Page 55] interests.[[#REF3]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT3|3]]</span> Security relates means to ends. It involves war fighting, war avoidance, and peacetime conduct designed "to make it clear to any potential adversary that the costs of fighting it will far outweigh any conceivable benefits."[[#REF4]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT4|4]]</span> Broadly speaking, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">strategy is the "art of creating power" in the sense of producing effects in war and peace.</span></span>[[#REF5]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT5|5]] Like security<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, it relates means to ends</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is the mechanism through which power is created to carry security into effect</span></span>. From this angle, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">security is a set of strategies ranging from the military and diplomatic to the economic and cultural with which a state creates and directs its power to obtain security in constant relationship with the strategies of its potential allies and adversaries</span></span> and with the demands of its society; and these strategies appear as though they are intertwined in an overarching design.[[#REF6]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT6|6]] <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Another conceptual qualification to be made relates to the state's power, which stems from indigenous human and material resources and external borrowing capabilities and manifests by a variety of tools, along a continuum where at one end is force and at the other end is hegemony</span></span>.[[#REF7]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT7|7]] <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is conventionally deemed as being proportionate to the size of armed forces, territory, population, manufacturing capacity, and national product, as well as to the capacity to threaten punishment and compel</span></span>. The more resources a state possesses, the greater the power it has to inflict deprivation.[[#REF8]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT8|8]] [End Page 56] <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">This traditional view</span></span> accounts for the so-called the further, the weaker problem, in which a state is powerful but its resources are drained the further it distances itself from home, as the cost of transport and sustaining supply lines gets greater.[[#REF9]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT9|9]] However, it<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> insufficiently explains the "paradox of unrealized power," namely the problem of converting resources into realized, actual power</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Scarcely being a matter of size, power conversion is a function of management and proper assessment of the potential of resources</span></span>.[[#REF10]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT10|10]] The established wisdom on power overlooks the policy-contingency framework. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Power is relative and situational-dependent</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is meaningful only when compared to the power of other states as to a specific issue in a particular context.</span></span> Equally important, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">it is not generally effective</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Aggregate material facilities may be suitably required for one situation while being no asset in another. Qualitative factors, like ideology, norms, and morale, are key as well, notwithstanding that the military and economic instruments of power overshadow all else where there exists the ability and resolve to employ them.</span></span> All go into the calculus of the state's leadership when it evaluates structural imperatives and design strategies. Joseph Nye captures this point in his observation that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">power substantiates the state's capacity not merely to get others to do what they would not do otherwise but also to get them to want what it wants</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The first face of power, which uses inducements, threats, and coercion, represents the "directive or commanding method of exercising power</span></span>." The second, which relies on <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">promises of rewards and such intangible elements as institutions and culture, is called "soft, indirect or co-optive power behaviour."</span></span>[[#REF11]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT11|11]]In essence, power is inextricably linked to three variables: resources, actors, and outcomes.[[#REF12]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT12|12]] Insofar as each one of them coexists with the other, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">power stands for [End Page 57] the state's ability to command resources in order to get other states to do or want what it wants, with a view to molding intentions and preferred outcomes</span></span>. Therefore, as it involves control and instrumentalization of resources and actors, along with "material" and discursive construction of identities, within the space of state boundaries and wider geographical or functional frontiers, power has an intrinsic strategic flavor. It is through strategy that power as a means is related to security as the end of power. In this context, in the literature of international relations <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the theoretical debate over US global power is dominated by conflicting arguments about the degree to which the United States is an imperial or a hegemonic state</span></span>.[[#REF13]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT13|13]] Several <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">scholars, pointing to the country's overwhelming military and economic strength and its ability to shape outcomes to its own liking, assert that America bears resemblance to empires of the past in "terms of function, impact, leverage and projection</span></span>."[[#REF14]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT14|14]] It is from this angle that many influential policymakers, media commentators, researchers, and intellectuals talk of an American imperium; that is, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">they regard US unipolarity and global preponderance as an imperial dominance of the international system, as a Pax Americana.</span></span> The analytical usefulness of this conceptualization is problematic. For the time being, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States exerts and furthers its global power through persuasion, consent, and coercion, but without structuring relations of hierarchical domination and directly ruling alien territories, or even exercising formal control over other states and societies in the way that most erstwhile empires did</span></span>. Still, as the established argument in international history scholarship suggests, empire represents "a pre-modern form of political authority and rule counter-posed to the modern form of rule and political order associated with sovereignty," and therefore to regard the United States as an empire is to misunderstand "the unique historical and social structure of the United States as a modern capitalist state."[[#REF15]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT15|15]]</span> In this respect, identifying the US power position [End Pae 58] and role with an empire's imperialism is a "useless and potentially dangerous anachronism," insofar as the Age of Empire is definitely over and an "Age of American Hegemony" has commenced.[[#REF16]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT16|16]]</span> On the other hand, an important question arises as to what the concept of hegemony means. Conventional wisdom understands it as an enduring pattern of dominance that a great power imposes over others by building a hierarchical world order in its own right. The principal intellectual tradition developed is the hegemonic stability theory.[[#REF17]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT17|17]]</span> This assumes that hegemony points to situations in which one state has considerably more economic power than the others. The inequality of this type of power is so great that it allows this state to achieve territorial expansion, establish free trade, and rule the international system politically, thereby making a hegemonic world order possible and stable. However, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">territorial and military overstretch, coupled with diplomatic overcommitments, inevitably result in the economic decline of the hegemon, which in turn lays the ground for its power to wane and the world order to degenerate.</span></span> But this theory has come under compelling criticism as it leaves unresolved the question of how hegemony should be defined. That is related mainly to the manner in which hegemonic power is exerted and manifested. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Most scholars conceive of hegemonic rule as the preponderance of material resources and the use of coercion or the threat of force on the part of the hegemon</span></span>. Others call into question this traditional approach and maintain that hegemony has to do more with the structural placement and intellectual leading role of the hegemon rather than the establishment of a particular security order exclusively favorable to its strategic interests. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Hegemony should best be seen as primarily the exercise of indirect power, which substantiates the hegemon's ability to get others to want what it wants by manipulating such means as [End Page 59] promises of rewards, norms, ideology, and institutions</span></span>.[[#REF18]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT18|18]]</span> It is closely associated with the process of socialization through which substantive beliefs and values of others are reshaped in a fashion to secure their compliance.[[#REF19]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT19|19]]</span> This, in turn, involves the hegemon's capacity to access other states' societies through their political, economic, diplomatic, and cultural institutions.[[#REF20]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#FOOT20|20]]</span> On the whole, one may recall the Marxist Antonio Gramsci's distinction between domination based on pure might and hegemony based on consent. Following this way of thinking, and unlike the advocates of the hegemonic stability theory, we contend that<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> hegemony mirrors not simply a "material" structural supremacy of power capabilities, a social material reality of global or regional primacy but also, and above all, "material" structural conditions in which one preeminent great power has proved able to make its conception of order and stability acceptable to the others</span></span>. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Material power is inevitable – multilateral leadership is key to make our military power effective – builds alliances, checks counter-balancing, and maintains domestic support</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Jervis 09 <span class="cardChar">[Robert Jervis—A Professor of International Politics at Columbia University, “Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective”, World Politics Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009]</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">To say that the system is unipolar is not to argue that the unipole can get everything it wants or that it has no need for others</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">American power</span></span> is very great, but it <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">is still subject to two familiar limitations</span></span>: <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it is harder to build than to destroy, and success usually depends on others’ decisions. This is particularly true of the current system because of what the U.S. wants</span></span>. If Hitler had won World War II, he might have been able to maintain his system for some period of time with little cooperation from others because “all” he wanted was to establish the supremacy of the Aryan race. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The U.S. wants not only to prevent the rise of a peer competitor but also to stamp out terrorism, maintain an open international economic system, spread democracy throughout the world, and establish a high degree of cooperation among countries that remain juridically equal</span></span>. Even in the military arena, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the U.S. </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">cannot</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> act completely </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">alone</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. Bases and overflight rights are always needed</span></span>, and <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">support from allies</span></span>, especially Great Britain<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, is important to validate military action in the eyes of the American public</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">When one matches American forces, not against those of an adversary but against the tasks at hand, they often fall short. Against terrorism, force is ineffective without excellent intelligence.</span></span> Given the international nature of the threat and the difficulties of gaining information about it, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">international cooperation is the </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">only route to success</span></span>. The maintenance of <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">international prosperity</span></span> also <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">requires joint efforts,</span></span> even leaving aside the danger that other countries could trigger a run on the dollar by cashing in their holdings. Despite its lack of political unity, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Europe is in many respects an economic unit, and one with a greater GDP than that of the U.S</span></span>. Especially because of the growing Chinese economy, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">economic power is spread around the world much more equally than is military power, and the open economic system could easily disintegrate despite continued unipolarity</span></span>. In parallel, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">on a whole host of problems such as aids, poverty, and international crime</span></span> (even leaving aside climate change), <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the unipole can lead and exert pressure but cannot dictate</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Joint actions may be necessary to apply sanctions to various unpleasant</span></span> and recalcitrant <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">regimes; proliferation can be stopped only if all the major states </span></span>(and many minor ones) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">work to this end</span></span>; <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">unipolarity did not automatically enable the U.S. to maintain the coalition against Iraq</span></span> after the first Gulf War; <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">close ties </span></span>within the West <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">are needed to reduce the ability of China, Russia, and other states to play one Western country off against the others</span></span>. But in comparison with the cold war era, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">there are </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">fewer incentives</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> today for allies to </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">cooperate</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> with the U.S. During the earlier period unity and close coordination not only permitted military efficiencies but</span></span>, more importantly, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">gave credibility to the American nuclear umbrella that protected the allies</span></span>. Serious splits were dangerous because they entailed the risk that the Soviet Union would be emboldened. This reason for avoiding squabbles disappeared along with the USSR, and the point is likely to generalize to other unipolar systems if they involve a decrease of threats that call for maintaining good relations with the superpower. This does not mean that even in this particular unipolar system the superpower is like Gulliver tied down by the Lilliputians. In some areas opposition can be self-defeating. Thus for any country to undermine American leadership of the international economy would be to put its own economy at risk, even if the U.S. did not retaliate, and for a country to sell a large proportion of its dollar holding would be to depress the value of the dollar, thereby diminishing the worth of the country’s remaining stock of this currency. Furthermore, cooperation often follows strong and essentially unilateral action. Without the war in Iraq it is not likely that we would have seen the degree of cooperation that the U.S. obtained from Europe in combating the Iranian nuclear program and from Japan and the PRC in containing North Korea. Nevertheless, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">many of the American goals depend on persuading others, not coercing them</span></span>. Although incentives and even force are not irrelevant to<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> spreading democracy and the free market</span></span>, at bottom this<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> requires people to embrace a set of institutions and values</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Building the world that the U.S. seeks is a political, social, and even psychological task for which unilateral measures are likely to be unsuited and for which American military and economic strength can at best play a supporting role</span></span>. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Success requires that others share the American vision and believe that its leadership is benign.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Independently, hegemony shorn of international support causes backlash, terrorism, mass proliferation, and results in isolationism</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Ikenberry ’02<span class="cardChar"> [John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition—Foreign Affairs, lexis]</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial grand strategy, however</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Unchecked U.S. power</span></span>, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">shorn of legitimacy</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and disentangled from the postwar norms and institutions of the international order</span></span>, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">will usher in a</span></span> more <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">hostile international system</span></span>, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">making it far harder to achieve American interests</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The secret of the </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">U</span></span>nited <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates' <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">long brilliant run as the world's leading state was its ability and willingness to exercise power within alliance and multinational frameworks</span></span>, which made its power and agenda more acceptable to allies and other key states around the world. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This achievement has now been put at risk by the administration's new thinking. The most immediate problem is that the neoimperialist approach is unsustainable</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Going it alone might well succeed in removing Saddam Hussein from power, but it is far less certain that a strategy of counterproliferation, based on American willingness to use unilateral force</span></span> to confront dangerous dictators, can work over the long term. An American policy that leaves the United States alone to decide which states are threats and how best to deny them weapons of mass destruction <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">will lead to a diminishment of multilateral mechanisms</span></span> -- most important of which is the nonproliferation regime. The Bush administration has elevated the threat of WMD to the top of its security agenda without investing its power or prestige in fostering, monitoring, and enforcing nonproliferation commitments. The tragedy of September 11 has given the Bush administration the authority and willingness to confront the Iraqs of the world. But that will not be enough when even more complicated cases come along -- when it is not the use of force that is needed but concerted multilateral action to provide sanctions and inspections. Nor is it certain that a preemptive or preventive military intervention will go well; it might trigger a domestic political backlash to American-led and military-focused interventionism. America's well-meaning <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">imperial strategy could undermine the principled multilateral agreements, institutional infrastructure, and cooperative spirit needed for the long-term success of nonproliferation goals</span></span>. The specific doctrine of preemptive action poses a related problem: once the United States feels it can take such a course, nothing will stop other countries from doing the same. Does the United States want this doctrine in the hands of Pakistan, or even China or Russia? After all, it would not require the intervening state to first provide evidence for its actions. The United States argues that to wait until all the evidence is in, or until authoritative international bodies support action, is to wait too long. Yet that approach is the only basis that the United States can use if it needs to appeal for restraint in the actions of others. Moreover, and quite paradoxically, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">overwhelming American conventional military might, combined with a policy of preemptive strikes, could lead hostile states to accelerate programs to acquire their only possible deterrent to the United States: WMD</span></span>. This is another version of the security dilemma, but one made worse by a neoimperial grand strategy. Another problem follows. The use of force to eliminate WMD capabilities or overturn dangerous regimes is never simple, whether it is pursued unilaterally or by a concert of major states. After the military intervention is over, the target country has to be put back together. Peacekeeping and state building are inevitably required, as are long-term strategies that bring the un, the World Bank, and the major powers together to orchestrate aid and other forms of assistance. This is not heroic work, but it is utterly necessary. Peacekeeping troops may be required for many years, even after a new regime is built. Regional conflicts inflamed by outside military intervention must also be calmed. This is the "long tail" of burdens and commitments that comes with every major military action. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">When these costs and obligations are added to America's imperial military role, it becomes even more doubtful that the</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">neoimperial strategy can be sustained</span></span> at home over the long haul -- the classic problem of imperial overstretch. The United States could keep its military predominance for decades if it is supported by a growing and increasingly productive economy. But the indirect burdens of cleaning up the political mess in terrorist-prone failed states levy a hidden cost. Peacekeeping and state building will require coalitions of states and multilateral agencies that can be brought into the process only if the initial decisions about military intervention are hammered out in consultation with other major states. America's older realist and liberal grand strategies suddenly become relevant again. A third problem <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">with an imperial grand strategy is that it </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">cannot generate</span></span> the <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">cooperation</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">needed to solve practical problems at the heart of the U.S. foreign policy agenda. In the fight on terrorism</span></span>, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States needs cooperation</span></span> from European and Asian countries in intelligence, law enforcement, and logistics. Outside the security sphere, realizing U.S. objectives depends even more on a continuous stream of amicable working relations with major states around the world. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It needs partners for trade liberalization, global financial stabilization, environmental protection, deterring transnational organized crime, managing the rise of China, and a host of other thorny challenges</span></span>. But it is impossible to expect would-be partners to acquiesce to America's self-appointed global security protectorate and then pursue business as usual in all other domains. The key policy tool for states confronting a unipolar and unilateral America is to withhold cooperation in day-to-day relations with the United States. One obvious means is trade policy; the European response to the recent American decision to impose tariffs on imported steel is explicable in these terms. This particular struggle concerns specific trade issues, but it is also a struggle over how Washington exercises power. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States may be a unipolar military power, but economic and political power is more evenly distributed across the globe. The major states may not have much leverage in directly restraining American military policy, but they can make the United States pay a price in other areas. </span></span>Finally, the neoimperial grand strategy poses a wider problem for the maintenance of American unipolar power. It steps into the oldest trap of powerful imperial states: self-encirclement. When the most powerful state in the world throws its weight around, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">unconstrained by rules or norms of legitimacy, it </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">risks a backlash</span></span>. Other countries will bridle at an international order in which the United States plays only by its own rules. The proponents of the new grand strategy have assumed that the United States can single-handedly deploy military power abroad and not suffer untoward consequences; relations will be coarser with friends and allies, they believe, but such are the costs of leadership. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">But history shows that powerful states tend to</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">trigger self-encirclement</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">by their own overestimation of their power.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">That devastates leadership and makes international conflict inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Monalván ‘10</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan|Luis Carlos Montalván]]</span>, Former Army Capt., freelance journalist and veteran’s advocate, Master's degrees in Journalism and Strategic Communications at Columbia University, April 23, 2010, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan/multilateralism-is-essent_b_550332.html|Multilateralism is Essential for Peace in the 21st Century]]</span>,” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan/multilateralism-is-essent_b_550332.html
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Unilateralism is the</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">wrong</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">approach for American Diplomacy</span></span>. There is nothing to suggest its efficacy since 9/11. There is nothing to suggest its usefulness for future conflict. In allowing the US to go it alone, America's partners and allies risk the havoc and catastrophic consequences that will accompany <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">"Imperial Overstretch." The residue of overstretch will include</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">loss of US leadership</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">in the world, an economy whose decline affects billions of dollars in international markets, and certainly emboldens rogue states. The whole world will pay the price if we let unilateralism pervade this century</span></span>. As the bloodiest 100 years in recorded history, the 20th Century is replete with examples of how policy and practice intersect to foment war. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The proliferation of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and the constantly mutating dynamic of terrorism inform our current, dangerous reality</span></span>. Amidst this backdrop of destruction, there are lessons for those who are looking for them. Seeds of peacemaking and conflict resolution were planted which we must germinate in order to halt and then reverse the trend toward violence and chaos. Perhaps the 21st Century could be the first 100 years in which nations invest more in building peace than in making war. In the 20th Century, local <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">conflicts ignited global tensions and genocide on an unprecedented scale, costing incalculable life and treasure. The two world wars and other explosive conflicts erupted over such issues as ethnic disputes, the securing of natural resources, corporate interests, ideology and religion. The international business of war produced economies of scale prompted by the industrial, technological, and communications revolution</span></span>s. The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife in Sarajevo by anarchist Gavrilo Princip was the spark that ignited WWI. In time, some 15 million people would be killed. The sheer brutality of that war led Woodrow Wilson to issue his "Fourteen Points" in 1918, which included the establishment of a League of Nations "for the purpose of affording mutual guarantees of political independence and territorial integrity to great and small states alike." Just like our present-day difficulties in pursuing compromise, the US Congress politicized the concept, bucked the President, and did not support that initiative. The subsequent failure of the League of Nations to prevent WWII may have galvanized our culture's distrust of multilateralism. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Throughout the 20th Century and until today, nations and other entities have invested precious financial, intellectual, social, institutional and political capital into arming themselves with weaponry</span></span>, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">instead of</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">building their capacity for peace</span></span>. Technologies change and improve with increasing rapidity, but those advances have included improvements in how to kill more people more efficiently and with smaller devices. WWII was the shining example of multilateralism and its power. Vietnam and Korea were examples of its limitations. South Africa and India demonstrated that the support of the international community could enable countries to pull themselves up by their own bootstraps. All these contribute and form the basis of the state of nations today. The 20th Century left us at a crossroads: will we perpetuate the machinery and culture of war or surpass our greatest dreams by encouraging and enforcing peace policies and practices worldwide? <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The 21st Century began ominously with the attacks of September 11, 2001, which ushered in a new era of US foreign policy and global response to war, conflict and terrorism. Rather than engage a sympathetic world in developing multilateral and inclusive strategies similar to the precursors to the 2003 Iraq War and as was done before the Persian Gulf War, the US</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">squandered</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">its global capital to pursue "pre-emptive" unilateral military action</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The equal and increasingly matching reaction is a global culture of military aggression</span></span> and war. The resulting disintegration of the international community contributed to the most serious economic disaster since the Great Depression. Already <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">struggling to survive amidst broken economies, the proliferation of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and global terrorism strains multilateralism when it should embolden it. If it is true that every weapon invented is eventually used, we have much to fear if we do not reverse this lethal trend. Since national conflicts frequently</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">spill over into</span></span> regional and <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">world-wide conflict</span></span>, multilateral organizations have been very strong supporters of Truth and Reconciliation Commissions. Even the US found a way to first investigate and then come to terms with its terrible policy of putting Japanese-Americans in internment camps during WWII and apologized and paid reparations to survivors and their children. There were important Truth and Reconciliation Commissions in South Africa, supported by the international community. Victims and perpetrators of Apartheid who participated in Truth and Reconciliation Commissions demonstrated in compelling ways the healing and restorative power of those gatherings. Perhaps more importantly, they showed the world that a nonviolent response to unthinkable oppression and injustice can foster the peaceful development of a society intent upon making amends for the past and embarking upon a brighter, shared future. Since conflict-resolution and peacemaking at the local or national level work, why not apply it multilaterally? Concerned about the resurgence of unilateralism in the US's current Marjeh and Kandahar operations in Afghanistan, former Assistant Secretary of State Gene Dewey recently noted that "it's been very lonely being a leading multilateralist in Washington over the last nine years. Too few policy-makers have sensed where our unilateralism has led, and is leading." Saudi Arabia and other authoritarian Islamic countries generated the seeds that not only birthed the terrorists who carried out 9/11, but also attacks in Madrid, London, Mumbai and Chechnya. No matter where terrorists are determined to attempt to disrupt the lives of others, it's time for countries to realize that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the only way to confront contemporary terrorism is through multilateralism</span></span>. This must be a multilateralism that is thoroughly infused with peacemaking and conflict-resolution, instead of only "joint forces." At this crossroads, we can use the knowledge economy, social network and the international community to turn the rhetoric of hope into reality. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">We sit upon an historical precipice of policies and practices of sustainable, culturally responsive peace-building and violence prevention within and beyond our borders. Despite their faults, the institutions </span></span>set up after in response to WWII (UN) and the Cold War (NATO)<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> can be the </span></span>21st Century's<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> vehicles for peace. We can use those instruments of multilateralism to build the peacekeeping, disaster relief, and conflict resolution forces that bring countries together</span></span>. "Actually, I believe we have strategically shifted from that of a global war on terror (GWOT) to containing violent extremism (CVE). That said, the reason extremists do what they do is because they recruit from amongst the most desperate people on the earth. And, the <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">reasons for desperation are strategic---but not necessarily military in nature. In fact, we have the capability to wage peace that is just as sophisticated as our capability to make war.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Advantage 2 is Democratic Transition:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Obama will not close detention centers in Afghanistan – the president is interpreting the application of human rights treaties as to not protect basic rights</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Serwer, ’09 <span class="cardChar">[Adam Serwer, 2/26/09, “The Blight of Bagram”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_blight_of_bagram]]</span>, SM]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moments after Obama signed an executive order on Jan. 23 mandating that the prison at Guantánamo Bay be closed within a year, retired Maj. Gen. John Eaton, an Iraq veteran, declared that torture was the tool of "the lazy, the stupid, and the pseudo-tough. It's also perhaps the greatest recruiting tool that the terrorists have<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">." It seemed that America's policy of human-rights abuse and indefinite detention might come to an end.</span></span> But since <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">January, a number of the decisions made by the Obama administration have caused anxiety among human-rights advocates, who fear that the new president may indeed continue many Bush-era policies</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama officials</span></span> such as Attorney General Eric Holder, solicitor general nominee Elena Kagan, and Principal Deputy Solicitor General Neal Katyam <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">have released statements endorsing the idea that terror suspects can be defined as "enemy combatants" and held "for the duration of hostilities" without trial.</span></span> The Obama administration also recently invoked the state-secrets doctrine to dismiss a civil suit against a Boeing subsidiary that plaintiffs contend aided the CIA in their rendition to countries where they were tortured. Prior to the Bush administration, the state-secrets doctrine was used to dismiss individual pieces of evidence, rather than entire lawsuits. Civil libertarians bristled at Obama's use of the doctrine in the same manner, and on Feb. 11, Sen. Patrick Leahy introduced a bill in Congress that would regulate its use. The administration's actions were in contrast to Obama's earliest executive orders mandating that all interrogations by U.S. government agents comply with the Army Field Manual and that the Bush administration's infamous "black sites" be closed. President <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama is walking a fine line between Dick Cheney's "dark side" and his own promise to not compromise American values in the name of national security</span></span>. "If you want to give the administration the benefit of the doubt, they are taking the six months they've been given to figure out what their position is going to be," says Sahr Muhammedally, a senior law associate at Human Rights First. "Or the other way of reading it is that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">they want to embrace the whole Bush position on detention</span></span>." In the view of human-rights activists, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">among the most disturbing actions recently taken by the Obama administration is the decision to continue with the Bush administration position that suspected terrorist detainees at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">do not have the right to challenge their detention</span></span>. The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bush administration position,</span></span> which has thus far been maintained by the Obama administration, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">holds that because Bagram is located in "a zone of active hostilities," it is distinct from Guantánamo, so the ruling that granted Gitmo detainees a right to challenge their detention does not apply to Bagram</span></span>. "I think this is a difficult one to know exactly what's going on, particularly because they've only given a two-sentence filing," says Ken Gude, a human rights expert at the Center for American Progress. "I think it's important to recognize that no U.S. court ever has exercised jurisdiction over a military detention center on foreign territory in a battle zone. It's not surprising that they've taken this position." Jonathan Hafetz, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who has represented several detainees, describes the government's position on Bagram and Guantánamo as a distinction without a difference, and worries that <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">by maintaining Bagram as a legal black hole for detainees, the Obama administration will continue to hold terror suspects indefinitely without trial, even if Gitmo is closed</span></span>. "The fact is that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">since this first Supreme Court ruling upholding Gitmo detainee's access to habeas corpu</span></span>s," Hafetz explains, "<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the administration stopped bringing people to Guantánamo and started bringing them to Bagram</span></span>. The population skyrocketed." <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">All of the detainees involved in the hearing in which the Obama administration asserted the same position as the Bush administration were brought to Bagram from outside Afghanistan. "</span></span>There's no difference other than that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">they were brought to Bagram instead of Guantánamo,</span></span>" Hafetz says<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. "Many people sent to Guantánamo were sent for the wrong reasons, tribal rivalries and so forth,"</span></span> Muhammedally says. "I'm certain that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">there are a whole host of people like that at Bagram</span></span>." <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The Obama administration seems to be preparing for the prison to expand</span></span>. //The Christian Science Monitor// reported on Feb. 12 that plans are underway to ensure that Bagram can hold as many as 1,100 prisoners. The number of detainees housed at Bagram remains unclear, as does the percentage of detainees who were captured outside of Afghanistan. A Defense Department official told ProPublica that more than 500 of the detainees there are from Afghanistan; The Christian Science Monitor reported that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the prison holds more than 600 people</span></span>. The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama administration's reasoning, that Afghan detainees can be held at Bagram indefinitely until the end of hostilities because they are enemy combatants, is also problematic</span></span>, say human-rights advocates. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The U.S. is not currently involved in an international armed conflict in Afghanistan, for which enemy combatants would have to be considered prisoners of war under the Geneva Conventions</span></span>. Instead, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the U.S. is engaged in a non-international armed conflict in a foreign nation, which means that civilians who take up arms have to be tried according to domestic law</span></span>, in accordance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, of which the United States is a member. The Covenant states, "Anyone who is deprived of his liberty by arrest or detention shall be entitled to take proceedings before a court, in order that that court may decide without delay on the lawfulness of his detention and order his release if the detention is not lawful." In reality, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the status of detainees at Bagram is determined by confidential enemy-combatant review boards. "There is a legitimate concern about detaining individuals,"</span></span> Muhammedally says, "but there has to be some way of challenging their detention." The administration's policy on Bagram is not necessarily final. Among the executive orders Obama issued in early January was one ordering a review of detention-policy options by a special task force consisting of high-ranking administration officials, to determine the options for detaining suspected terrorists. The Center for American Progress' Gude is confident that the administration will come up with a "meaningful" review process for detainees, including redefining the term "enemy combatant" to prevent the detention process from being abused. "For the purposes of identifying the category of individuals who can be lawfully detained by the military, the Bush administration's definition was incredibly broad," he says. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">"I think it's completely clear that [the Obama administration has] no intention of making the Bush administration's mistakes. They are not going to turn Bagram into Guantánamo's little brother. They closed Guantánamo for a reason</span></span>." </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Recent rulings have reinforced the executive’s interpretations – judicial deference on this question specifically is sets a unique precedent of executive power</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">NYT ’10 <span class="cardChar">[The New York Times, 2010, “Backward at Bagram”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/01/opinion/01tue1.html]]</span>, SM]</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">One of the most vital jobs of the federal courts is to check excessive claims of presidential power. The courts have stepped up to the task</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> at important times since President George W. Bush embarked on a campaign after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to create an imperial presidency. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Sadly, a recent ruling by a federal appeals court on the American military prison at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">was not one of those times</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">What makes the ruling especially distressing is that the extravagant claim of executive power upheld by the court — to create a law-free zone at the Bagram lockup — was dreamed up by Mr. Bush and subsequently embraced by President Obama</span></span>.<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> The appellate court ruled that there was no right to federal court review for the detainees,</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> who say they were captured outside of Afghanistan, far from any battlefield, and then shipped to Bagram to be held indefinitely in harsh conditions. The decision overturns a narrowly focused 2009 ruling</span></span> by Judge John Bates of the Federal District Court. His decision was <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">based on the 2008 Supreme Court decision that granted prisoners at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, a federal court review of their detention.</span></span> Judge <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bates extended the Supreme Court ruling to non-Afghan detainees at Bagram who had been held for more than six years — a small slice of the 600 to 800 prisoners there.</span></span> Judge <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bates recognized that Bagram is in an active theater of war, and habeas corpus traditionally has not applied to detainees abroad in zones of combat. </span></span>But <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">his ruling also recognized that the logic of exempting prisoners of war from judicial review cannot apply to a detainee who is imported to the war zone.</span></span> The appellate panel found that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the process for sorting prisoners at Bagram was even flimsier than the one at Guantánamo, which the Supreme Court said was inadequate</span></span>. To justify overruling Judge Bates, the appellate judges overestimated the practical difficulty of affording court access and underestimated American control in Bagram. They also dusted off a precedent from 1950 to suggest that granting habeas corpus rights to a small number of Bagram detainees would somehow “hamper the war effort, and bring aid and comfort to the enemy. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Ruling on detention is key to expand the role of judicial review in the context of executive human rights treaty interpretations – that ends traditional treaty deference </span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Goldman,’05</span></span> <span class="cardChar">[Jeffrey C. Goldman—JD @ Duke, Executive Editor, Duke Law Journal, “Of Treaties And Torture: How The Supreme Court Can Restrain The Executive,” December, 2005, 55 Duke L.J. 609, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.law.duke.edu/journals/dlj/downloads/dlj55p609.pdf]]</span>, SM] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bush administration’s original</span></span> (and now superseded) “<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">torture memos” strain contemporary understandings of the United States’ obligations</span></span> under the Convention Against Torture. 2 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">These documents also mock traditional understandings of the relationship between international law and treaties and of the executive’s power to interpret and apply them</span></span>. 3 Perhaps <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">most alarming are the administration’s attempts to undermine the spirit of </span></span>both domestic legislation and <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">international law by employing a “</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">strict constructionist</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">” interpretive methodology while embracing an </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">expansive view</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> of executive power. </span></span>The Bush <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">administration’s approach weakens American law’s carefully constructed system of checks and balances by aggrandizing power to the executive branch at the expense of both coordinate branches.</span></span> Short of impeaching the president and removing him from office—a drastic step that is likely to be both politically unpopular and ineffective in restoring the country’s reputation as a leader in human rights issues—what other avenues exist for restraining the executive? This Note argues that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the Supreme Court should take a far more activist approach in reviewing executive interpretation of international law and that it may do so while remaining consistent with judicial precedent</span></span>. In particular, this Note focuses on the administration’s conduct of the War on Terror and specifically on its application of, or threats to use, torture. It concludes that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the president does not</span></span>, in fact, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">have the power to terminate unilaterally the Convention Against Torture</span></span> because <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">treaties that embody human rights norms</span></span> (especially peremptory norms like torture) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">are fundamentally different from other sorts of treaties</span></span>. 4 The interplay of traditional and contemporary understandings of international law—especially customary international law and peremptory norms—combined with well-established interpretations of the treaty power suggest that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the balance of power between the executive and judicial branches should vary with the subject matter of a treaty</span></span>. True, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit did state, in Goldwater v. Carter, 5 that “[t]<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">here is no judicially ascertainable and manageable method of making any distinction among treaties on the basis of their substance</span></span>.” 6 However, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the development of international</span></span> humanitarian and <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">human rights law</span></span> in the twentieth century, and especially in the twenty-five years since Goldwater was decided, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">suggests otherwise. </span></span>The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">recognition of some rules of international law as peremptory norms</span></span> from which no derogation is permitted (jus cogens) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">provides a “judicially ascertainable and manageable method” of distinguishing treaties based on subject matter</span></span>. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">These treaties provide the Supreme Court with legitimate, constitutional reasons to overrule congressional and executive treaty interpretations</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. </span></span>Although U.S. courts long ago adopted a rule of construction that accorded treaties and statutes equal weight, 8 jurists added a caveat: “[u]nless it is for some reason distinguishable from other laws, the rule which [a treaty] gives may be displaced by the legislative power, at its pleasure.” <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Treaties dealing with peremptory norms are categorically different from other treaties. Human rights treaties</span></span>, and related implementing legislation, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">grant specific and far-reaching rights directly to individuals</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">These rights</span></span>, by virtue of reason, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">should be held by courts as equal to constitutional freedoms and rights</span></span>; like those freedoms and rights, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">neither the executive</span></span> nor the legislative branch <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">should be able to alter or infringe them in any but the most compelling circumstances</span></span> (and certainly not unilaterally, as by executive order). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The Supreme Court’s recognition of this equivalence would </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">give it an axe to wield</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> that it cannot carry </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">into interpretative battles</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> regarding other treaties</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">axe can restore the balance of power </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">between the executive, legislative, and judicial branches and ensure that the United States, which has led the world in recognizing and promoting human rights, retains its high moral ground</span></span>. This Note argues that because human rights are fundamental in nature, and because the exercise of constitutional rights is predicated on the enjoyment of more basic human rights, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">courts should treat human rights treaties </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">differently</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> than other international agreements</span></span> the United States has signed or ratified. Part I of this Note reviews the judiciary’s understanding of the relationship between international and domestic law. It then presents a brief overview of jus cogens norms in international law and demonstrates that torture has entered the canon of such norms. Part II begins with a discussion of the function and interpretation of treaties under U.S. law and argues that human rights treaties should be categorically distinguished from those dealing with other subjects. It then argues that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">equating human rights with constitutional rights</span></span> is both appropriate and necessary if human rights treaties are to achieve their full potential. Part III <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">suggests a limit for the executive’s treaty interpretation power and specifically demonstrates that executive power to terminate treaties unilaterally does not extend to human rights treaties</span></span>. Part III then argues that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">recognizing human rights treaties as a distinct category offers the judiciary a way to </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">restrain</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> the </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">executive without running afoul </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">of the political question doctrine.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">That is modeled globally – treaty deference undermines global separation of powers by creating an expansive executive</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Flaherty, ’08 <span class="cardChar">[April 18, 2008, Martin Flaherty—Professor of Law and Co-Director of the Joseph P. Crowley Program in International Human Rights at Fordham Law School in New York. His research focuses on Human Rights, Constitutional Law, and Legal History. He earned his A.B. from Princeton, his M.A. and M.Phil. from Yale (in History) and a J.D. from the Columbia Law School. “Globalization and Executive Power,” International Legal Theory Colloquium— Georgetown University Law Center, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.georgetown.edu/internationalhrcolloquium/Papers.htm]]</span>, SM]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Then as now <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">separation of powers has </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">global implications</span></span>. In the 18th century, Hamilton and his peers wrestled with the doctrine’s likely effects in foreign affairs as in domestic matters. An enhanced national legislature would now, for example, take the lead in regulating international trade. A stronger executive would better safeguard national security. An independent judiciary would help enforce the law of nations and so keep the republic at peace. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Two hundred years later, the doctrine no longer simply has effects beyond U.S. borders, but </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">transcends borders</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> altogether.</span></span> Most obviously, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the doctrine has </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">migrated abroad</span></span>. Early on, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">nations around the world adopted some version of the U.S. separation of powers conceptions in modeling their own constitutions, a phenomenon that only accelerated with the decline of colonialism</span></span> after World War II. Though usually overlooked, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">elements of the doctrine also inform key aspects of international human rights law, such as treaty provisions calling for legislative implementation of fundamental freedoms or mandating the protection of those freedoms by independent judicial bodies. </span></span>Nothing, however, requires separation of powers to be considered beyond national borders than globalization, the ongoing integration of global economies, communications, and institutions. How globalization, and within its ambit the effects the 9/11 attacks, should translate into domestic legal doctrine rightly occupy the attention of policymakers, jurists, and scholars. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Nowhere are the stakes higher than in the relationship between globalization and domestic separation of powers.</span></span> As Anne-Marie Slaughter has documented, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">globalization has meant that executives, legislatures, and judiciaries around the world bolster their institutional counterparts though direct interaction</span></span>. The critical question, as yet unaddressed and unanswered, is whether this institutional form of globalization sustains or undermines purposes that separation of powers aims to preserve. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Of particular currency </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">is the question of judicial deference to the Executive in foreign affairs.</span></span> Last Term, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the Supreme Court appeared to lay the question of deference to rest in its refusal to accord the President’s interpretations any weight in interpreting the Geneva Conventions</span></span> in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld. Yet <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the same Court</span></span> in Sanchez-Llamas v. Oregon <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">repeated a frequent mantra declaring, “[w]hile courts interpret treaties for themselves, the meaning given them by the departments of government particularly charged with their negotiation and enforcement is given great weight</span></span>.” As usually articulated, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">deference doctrine proceeds from the premise that of course courts themselves should interpret the law, at least where the law is clear and applicable</span></span>. Yet since it is often neither, especially in foreign relations, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the doctrine posits some presumption that the courts defer to the Executive’s determinations in foreign affairs applies in a range of areas. These include: </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">treaty interpretation</span></span>; national recognition, particularly where there are competing regimes; and the determination of customary international law, among others. To the extent deference exists, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">its justifications are found mainly in comparative institutional competence. </span></span> The Executive is simply better informed about foreign affairs matters and their consequences, and is best placed to render U.S. foreign policy coherent, than are the courts. Deference to the Executive in foreign relations in turn reflects a core function of separation of powers in promoting governmental efficiency. This article will argue that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">globalization flips conventional arguments for judicial deference, arguments that themselves offer a one-sided account of the ostensible doctrine’s separation of powers roots</span></span>. In the first part I will review deference doctrine itself, concentrating on what the Court has said in developing the standard. This part shall contend first, that statements asserting deference rely mainly on conventional statements concerning the Executive’s institutional competence in foreign affairs, yet second that such statements actually do little work in the court’s public decisionmaking process. Part II begins <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">a critique of foreign affairs deference by returning to the separation of powers fundamentals</span></span>, only part of which the doctrine assumes. Drawing upon text, structure, and especially upon history, this part <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">argues that while separation of powers properly fosters governmental efficiency of the type that the Executive in foreign affairs typically claims, it even more centrally functions to insure balance among the three basic branches of government to prevent a tyrannical accretion of power in any one</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Judicial statements of deference in foreign affairs commonly ignore this half of the equation.</span></span> More importantly, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">this Founding core of separation of powers speaks precisely to the current effects of globalization on any given domestic legal system</span></span>. Part III of the paper takes up this task directly to consider the effects of modern globalization on separation of powers and with it, deference. This part argues that <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">globalization systemically favors domestic executives at the expense of other governmental departments.</span></span> In this modern foreign affairs setting, it <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">follows that the last, not first, thing courts should so is defer to the executive in precisely that arena that helps create the type of imbalance that separation of powers is supposed to prevent.</span></span> The paper will conclude by arguing that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">squaring that the reality of 21st century globalization makes a recommitment to the Constitution’s eighteenth century values, including and especially a rejection of deference, more pressing than ever</span></span>.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Ruling on international human rights law fosters international judicial globalization, including independent judiciaries and restoration of SOP</span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Flaherty, ’08</span></span> <span class="cardChar">[April 18, 2008, Martin Flaherty—Professor of Law and Co-Director of the Joseph P. Crowley Program in International Human Rights at Fordham Law School in New York. His research focuses on Human Rights, Constitutional Law, and Legal History. He earned his A.B. from Princeton, his M.A. and M.Phil. from Yale (in History) and a J.D. from the Columbia Law School. “Globalization and Executive Power,” International Legal Theory Colloquium— Georgetown University Law Center, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.georgetown.edu/internationalhrcolloquium/Papers.htm]]</span>, SM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is but one facet of what Slaughter calls the “construction of a global legal system” through both formal and informal transnational judicial networks. Such <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">judicial globalization,</span></span> broadly conceived, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">occurs in several ways</span></span>. The most mundane yet potentially transformative are the increasing number of face to face meetings through teaching, conferences, and more formal exchanges. Next, and directly tied to classic economic globalization, courts of different nations have transformed the idea of simple comity to coordination in tackling complex multi-national commercial litigation. Of immense regional importance, the dialogue between the ECJ and national courts constitutes a more formal, horizontal aspect of direct interaction among judiciaries. For the purposes of present analysis, however, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">by far the most important aspects of judicial globalization involve national courts use of comparative materials and international law—above all international human rights law</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Ostensibly new and controversial in the United States, these aspects of globalization are familiar in most other jurisdictions</span></span>. As noted, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">national, supreme, and appellate courts have with apparent frequency cited to comparable case law in other jurisdictions</span></span> as at least persuasive authority to resolve domestic constitutional issues. Likewise, such courts also cite with increasing frequency the human rights jurisprudence of such transnational tribunals as the European Court of Human Rights and its Inter-American counterpart. In spectacular fashion, the House of Lords has recently been doing both. Likewise, the still-recent South African Constitution famously requires judges interpreting its Bill of Rights to consult international law and while expressly allowing them to consult “foreign,” i.e. comparative law. So marked is the phenomenon that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">several comparative constitutional law casebooks that highlight such borrowing have carved out a significant market niche, even in the U.S. It follows that in all these ways the global interaction of judges strengthens their hands within their respective countries</span></span>. In both theory and in the substance of these interactions, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the bolstering of judiciaries generally works toward a greater protection of individual and minority rights</span></span>. But while <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">leading authorities view judicial globalization as outpacing its legislative counterpart</span></span>, so too do <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">they describe a world in which executive and regulatory interaction outpaces them all.</span></span> To this extent, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">judicial globalization helps identify a problem yet also suggests a solution</span></span>. The problem, simply, is that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">transgovernmental globalization taken as a whole draws power to national executive branches and away from rights-protecting judiciaries.</span></span> Against this problem, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the solution becomes fostering the judicial side of the phenomenon, particularly with regard to the use of comparative and international materials</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The true potency of global separation of powers analysis</span></span>, however, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">lies elsewhere</span></span>. To its proponents, deference follows from the executive branches ostentiably greater expertise in foreign relations at a time when foreign relations is becoming ever more important. Yet <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">global separation of powers suggests that this school of jurisprudential thought has it exactly backward</span></span>. The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">substantial recent international relations scholarship describes the emergences of transgovermental networks on a global scale</span></span>. This work suggests, though has yet to explore, the comparative institutional results in any given state. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The overwhelming evidence nonetheless suggests that the primary comparative beneficiary of the modern disaggregated state has been the executive</span></span>. Given this development, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">transgovernmental globalization violates the core tenets of separation of powers doctrine in any given country</span></span>. These tenets have long made separation of powers in some form a predicate for properly functioning democratic self-government. First and foremost, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">separation of powers theory promises balance among the major branches of government to prevent a tyrannical accretion of power in any one.</span></span> In the U.S., the Founding generation prized this facet of the doctrine above all else. And though they viewed the “most dangerous branch” as the legislature, subsequent <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">history has clearly established the executive as the greatest threat to the type of balance that separation of powers presupposes.</span></span> Beyond this, the American Founders also believed that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">separation of powers could facilitate democracy not simply by preserving liberty, but by widely dispersing democratic accountability</span></span>. For this reason they insured that all three branches of government had a direct or indirect democratic provenance: the House of Representatives through direct elections; the Senate initially through election by the state legislatures; the President through the Electoral College; and not least, the judiciary through presidential appointment and senatorial approval. Of course <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">not all </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">liberal democracies</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, especially in the parliamentary mode, follow the U.S. model in these and other specifics. At a more general and no less relevant level, they nonetheless do, especially </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">in the idea that an independent judiciary,</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> itself at least indirectly accountable, </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">serves as a check on behalf of individual rights against too great concentrations of power in the</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> legislature and </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">executive</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> in the service of energetic government</span></span>. Not only is this idea evident commonly evident in democratic constitutions, it is also express in various international human rights instruments. Whether reversing the present trend toward foreign affairs deference will suffice to redress the imbalance may be an open question. But to paraphrase Justice Jackson in Youngstown, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">courts concerned with separation of powers should be the last, not the first, to bow to the increasingly powerful executive that globalization promotes</span></span>. Over two hundred years ago, Thomas Jefferson anticipated concern about the relevance of a constitution that outlived the generation that created it. His concern could only have grown that much greater at the prospect of an 18th century framework in a 21st century world. To judge from the many opinions and articles grappling with its implications, globalization highlights Jefferson’s concerns about an antique constitution speaking to a far different era as perhaps no other modern development. Yet if deference is any indication, at least separation of powers demonstrates the Constitution’s vitality, especially in foreign relations. Contrary to what some formalists aver the Constitution’s founders did not work through the concept so thoroughly or precisely as to effectively freeze their applications to the circumstances of the late 1700s. Yet neither is separation of powers so general that it is merely an invitation to struggle and nothing more. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Rather, text, structure, and history yield a structural approach to separation of powers that spoke to its own day but which remains no less germane to ours.</span></span> At the Founding, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">considerations of efficiency led to an executive far more powerful than any American predecessor, yet also one severely constrained by the imperatives of balance and joint accountability</span></span>. Today <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">globalization in its trans-governmental form cuts against executive pretensions even further</span></span>. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">At least with regard to treaty interpretation, </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the phenomenon does not particularly add to the executive’s traditional claims based on expertise, claims which did not go especially far in the early Republic. </span></span> By contrast, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">globalization places enormous pressure on the value of balance in particular</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It follows that there is even less reason for the courts to defer to the executive now than before</span></span> -- <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">and nowhere less so than in foreign relations</span></span>. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Democratic liberalism is backsliding now</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Diamond, Professor of Political Science and Sociology @ Stanford, ‘09</span></span>
Larry, The Impact of the Global Financial Crisis on Democracy, Presented to the SAIS-CGD Conference on New Ideas in Development after the Financial Crisis, Conference Paper that can be found on his Vita
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Concern about the future of democracy is further warranted by the gathering signs of a democratic recession, even before the onset of the global economic recession. During the past decade, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the global expansion of democracy has essentially leveled off </span></span>and hit an equilibrium <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">While freedom</span></span> (political rights and civil liberties) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">continued to expand throughout the post-Cold War era, that progress also halted in 2006, and 2007 and 2008 were the worst consecutive years for freedom since the end of the Cold War, with the number of countries declining in freedom greatly outstripping the number that improved. Two-thirds of all the breakdowns of democracy since the third wave began in 1974 have occurred in the last nine years</span></span>, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and in a number of strategically important states like Russia, Nigeria, Venezuela, Pakistan and Thailand</span></span>. Many of these countries have not really returned to democracy. And <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">a number of countries linger in a twilight zone between democracy and authoritarianism</span></span>. While normative <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">support for democracy</span></span> has grown around the world, it <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">remains</span></span> in many countries, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">tentative and uneven, or is</span></span> even eroding under the weight of growing public cynicism about corruption and the self-interested behavior of parties and politicians. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Only about half of the public</span></span>, on average, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">in Africa and Asia meets a rigorous, multidimensional test of support for democracy</span></span>. Levels of distrust for political institutions—particularly political parties and legislatures, and politicians in general—are very high in Eastern Europe and Latin America, and in parts of Asia. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In many countries, 30-50 percent of the public or more is willing to consider some authoritarian alternative to democracy</span></span>, such as military or one-man rule. And <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">where governance is bad or elections are rigged and the public cannot rotate leaders out of power, skepticism and defection from democracy grow. Of the roughly 80 new democracies that have emerged during the third wave and are still standing, probably close to three-quarters are insecure and could run some risk of reversal</span></span> during adverse global and domestic circumstances. Less at risk—and probably mostly consolidated—are the more established developing country democracies (India, Costa Rica, Botswana, Mauritius), and the more liberal democracies of this group: the ten postcommunist states that have been admitted to the EU; Korea and Taiwan; Chile, Uruguay, Panama, Brazil, probably Argentina; a number of liberal island states in the Caribbean and Pacific. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This leaves about 50 democracies and near democracies</span></span>—including such big and strategically important states as Turkey, Ukraine, Indonesia, the Philippines, South Africa, certainly Pakistan and Bangladesh, and possibly even Mexico—<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">where the survival of constitutional rule cannot be taken for granted</span></span>. In some of these countries, like South Africa, the demise of democracy would probably come, if it happened, not as a result of a blatant overthrow of the current system, but rather via a gradual executive strangling of political pluralism and freedom, or a steady decline in state capacity and political order due to rising criminal and ethnic violence. Such <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">circumstances would</span></span> also <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">swallow whatever hopes exist for the emergence of genuine democracy </span></span>in countries like Iraq and Afghanistan and for the effective restoration of democracy in countries like Thailand and Nepal. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Democratic transitions are hanging in the balance – only empowering judiciaries to check executive power can tip the scales</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">CJA ’04 <span class="cardChar">[The Center for Justice and Accountability, Amici Curiae in support of petitioners in Al Odah et al. v USA, "Brief of the Center for Justice and Accountability, the International League for Human Rights, and Individual Advocates for the Independence of the Judiciary in Emerging Democracies," 3-10-04, lexis]</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Many of the newly independent governments that have proliferated over the past five decades have adopted these ideals</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. They have emerged from a variety of less-than-free contexts, including the end of European colonial rule in the 1950's and 1960's, the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the former Soviet Union in the late 1980's and 1990's, the disintegration of Yugoslavia, and the continuing turmoil in parts of Africa, Latin America and southern Asia.</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> Some countries have successfully transitioned to stable and democratic forms of government that protect individual freedoms and human rights by means of judicial review by a strong and independent judiciary.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Others have suffered the rise of tyrannical and oppressive rulers who consolidated their hold on power in part by diminishing or abolishing the role of the judiciary. And still </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">others hang in the balance, struggling against the onslaught of tyrants to establish stable, democratic governments. In their attempts to shed their tyrannical pasts and to ensure the protection of individual rights, emerging democracies have consistently</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">looked to the United States</span></span> and its Constitution</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> in fashioning frameworks that safeguard the independence of their judiciaries </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. //See// Ran Hirschl, //The Political Origins of Judicial Empowerment through Constitutionalization: Lessons from Four Constitutional Revolutions//, 25 Law & Soc. Inquiry 91, 92 (2000) (stating that of the “[m]any countries . . . [that] have engaged in fundamental constitutional reform over the past three decades,” nearly all adopted “a bill of rights and establishe[d] some form of active judicial review”). </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Establishing</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> judicial review by </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">a strong </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">independent judiciary is</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">a critical step in stabilizing</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and protecting these new democracies.</span></span> //See// Christopher M. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Larkins</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, //Judicial Independence and Democratization: A Theoretical and Conceptual Analysis//, 44 Am. J. Comp. L. 605, 605-06 (1996) (</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">describ</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ing </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the judicial branch as having </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">a uniquely important role</span></span>"<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> in transitional countries, not only to "mediate conflicts between political actors but also [to] prevent the arbitrary exercise of government power</span></span>; //see also// Daniel C. Prefontaine and Joanne Lee, //The Rule of Law and the Independence of the Judiciary//, International Centre for Criminal Law Reform and Criminal Justice Policy (1998) ("</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">There is increasing acknowledgment that an independent judiciary is the key to upholding the rule of law in a free society . . . . Most countries in transition from dictatorships and/or statist economies recognize the need to create a more stable system of governance, based on the rule of law</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">."), //available at// http://www.icclr.law.ubc.ca/Publications/Reports/RuleofLaw. pdf (last visited Jan. 8, 2004). </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Although the precise form of government differs among countries, “they ultimately constitute variations within, not from, the American model of constitutionalism . . . [a] specific set of fundamental rights and liberties has the status of supreme law, is entrenched against amendment or repeal . . . and is enforced by an independent court</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> . . . .” Stephen Gardbaum, //The New Commonwealth Model of Constitutionalism//, 49 Am. J. Comp. L. 707, 718 (2001</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">). This phenomenon became most notable worldwide after World War II when certain countries, such as Germany, Italy, and Japan, embraced independent judiciaries following their bitter experiences under totalitarian regimes</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. //See id.// at 714- 15; //see also United States v. Then//, 56 F.3d 464, 469 (2d Cir. 1995) (Calabresi, J., concurring) (“Since World War II, many countries have adopted forms of judicial review, which — though different from ours in many particulars — unmistakably draw their origin and inspiration from American constitutional theory and practice. //See generally// Mauro Cappelletti, //The Judicial Process in Comparative Perspective// (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1989).”). It is a trend that continues to this day. It bears mention that the United States has consistently affirmed and encouraged the establishment of independent judiciaries in emerging democracies. In September 2000, President Clinton observed that "[w]ithout the rule of law, elections simply offer a choice of dictators. . . . </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">America's experience should be put to use to advance the rule of law, where democracy's roots are looking for room and strength to grow</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">." Remarks at Georgetown University Law School, 36 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 2218 (September 26, 2000), //available at// http://clinton6.nara.gov/2000/09/2000-09-26- remarks-by-president-at-georgetown-international-lawcenter. html. The United States acts on these principles in part through the assistance it provides to developing nations. For example, the United States requires that any country seeking assistance through the Millenium Challenge Account, a development assistance program instituted in 2002, must demonstrate, among other criteria, an "adherence to the rule of law." </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The White House noted that the rule of law is one of the "essential conditions for successful development" of these countries.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> //See// http://www.whitehouse.gov/infocus/developingnations (last visited Jan. 8, 2004).12 </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">US detention policy is the key internal link – it’s used to justify democratic backsliding globally – Guantanamo proves </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">CJA ’04 <span class="cardChar">[The Center for Justice and Accountability, Amici Curiae in support of petitioners in Al Odah et al. v USA, "Brief of the Center for Justice and Accountability, the International League for Human Rights, and Individual Advocates for the Independence of the Judiciary in Emerging Democracies," 3-10-04, lexis, SM]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While much of the world is moving to adopt the institutions necessary to secure individual rights, many still regularly abuse these rights<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">.</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">One of the hallmarks of tyranny is the lack of a strong and independent judiciary</span></span>. Not surprisingly, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">where countries make the sad transition to tyranny, one of the first victims is the judiciary. Many of the rulers that go down that road justify their actions on the basis of national security and the fight against terrorism, and, disturbingly, many </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">claim to be modeling their actions on the United States.</span></span> Again, a few examples illustrate this trend. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In Peru</span></span>, one of former President Alberto <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Fujimori’s first acts in seizing control was to assume direct executive control of the judiciary, claiming that it was justified by the threat of domestic terrorism. He then imprisoned thousands, refusing the right of the judiciary to intervene.</span></span> International Commission of Jurists, Attacks on Justice 2000-Peru, August 13, 2001, available at ttp://www.icj.org/news.php3?id_article=2587&lang=en (last visited Jan. 8, 2004). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In Zimbabwe,</span></span> President <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Mugabe’s rise to dictatorship has been punctuated by threats of violence to and the co-opting of the judiciary. He now enjoys virtually total control over Zimbabweans' individual rights and the entire political system.</span></span> R.W. Johnson, Mugabe’s Agents in Plot to Kill Opposition Chief, Sunday Times (London), June 10, 2001; International Commission of Jurists, Attacks on Justice 2002— Zimbabwe, August 27, 2002, available at http://www.icj.org/news.php3?id_article=2695〈=en (last visited Jan. 8, 2004). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">While Peru and Zimbabwe represent an extreme, the independence of the judiciary is under assault in less brazen ways in a variety of countries today</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A highly troubling aspect of this trend is the fact that in many of these instances </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">those perpetuating the assaults on the judiciary have pointed to the United States’ model to justify their act ions</span></span>. Indeed, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">many have specifically referenced the United States’ actions in detaining persons</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> in Guantánamo Bay.</span></span> For example, Rais Yatim, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Malaysia's "de facto law minister</span></span>" explicitly <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">relied on the detentions at Guantánamo to justify Malaysia's detention of more than 70 suspected Islamic militants for over two years</span></span>. Rais stated that Malyasia's detentions were "just like the process in Guantánamo," adding, "I put the equation with Guantánamo just to make it graphic to you that this is not simply a Malaysian style of doing things." Sean Yoong, "Malaysia Slams Criticism of Security Law Allowing Detention Without Trial," Associated Press, September 9, 2003 (available from Westlaw at 9/9/03 APWIRES 09 :34:00). Similarly, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">when responding to a United States Government human rights report that listed rights violations in Namibia, Namibia's Information Permanent Secretary Mocks Shivute cited the Guantánamo Bay detentions, claiming that "the US government was the worst human rights violator in the world</span></span>." BBC Monitoring, March 8, 2002, available at 2002 WL 15938703. Nor is this disturbing trend limited to these specific examples. At a recent conference held at the Carter Center in Atlanta, President <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Carter, specifically</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> citing </span></span>the Guantánamo Bay<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> detentions, </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">noted that</span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> the erosion of civil liberties in the United States has "given a blank check to nations who are inclined to violate human rights already."</span></span> Doug Gross, "Carter: U.S. human rights missteps embolden foreign dictators," Associated Press Newswires, November 12, 2003 (available from Westlaw at 11/12/03 APWIRES 00:30:26). At the same conference, Professor Saad Ibrahim of the American University in Cairo (who was jailed for seven years after exposing fraud in the Egyptian election process) said, "Every dictator in the world is using what the United States has done under the Patriot Act . . . to justify their past violations of human rights and to declare a license to continue to violate human rights." Id. Likewise, Shehu Sani, president of the Kaduna, Nigeriabased Civil Rights Congress, wrote in the International Herald Tribune on September 15, 2003 that "[<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">t]he insistence by the Bush administration on keeping Taliban and Al Quaeda captives in </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">indefinite detention</span></span> in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, instead of in jails in the United States — and the White House's preference for military tribunals over regular courts — <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">helps create a </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">free license for tyranny</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> in Africa. It helps justify </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Egypt's move</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> to detain human rights campaigners as threats to national security and does the same for similar measures by the governments of Ivory Coast, Cameroon and Burkina Faso."</span></span> Available at http://www.iht.com/ihtsearch.php?id=109927&owner=(IHT)&dat e=20030121123259. In our uni-polar world, the <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">United States obviously sets an important example on these issues.</span></span> As reflected in the foundational documents of the United Nations and many other such agreements, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the international community has consistently affirmed the value of an independent judiciary to the defense of universally recognized human rights</span></span>. In the crucible of actual practice within nations, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">many have looked to the United States model when developing independent judiciaries with the ability to check executive power in the defense of individual rights</span></span>. Yet <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">others have justified abuses by reference to the conduct of the United States</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Far more influential than the words of Montesquieu and Madison are </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">the actions</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> of the United States.</span></span> This case starkly presents the question of which model this Court will set for the world. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Illiberal majoritarian transitions cause genocide and war </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Zakaria ‘97</span>
Fareed Zakaria, PhD Poli Sci @ Harvard, Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, 1997, ln 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Mature liberal democracies can usually accommodate ethnic divisions without violence or terror and live in peace with other liberal democracies. But without a background in constitutional liberalism, the introduction of democracy in divided societies has actually fomented nationalism, ethnic conflict, and even war</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. The spate of elections held immediately after the collapse of communism were won in the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia by nationalist separatists and resulted in the breakup of those countries. This was not in and of itself bad, since those countries had been bound together by force. But the rapid secessions, without guarantees, institutions, or political power for the many minorities living within the new countries, have caused spirals of rebellion, repression, and, in places like Bosnia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia, war. Elections require that politicians compete for peoples' votes. In societies without strong traditions of multiethnic groups or assimilation, it is easiest to organize support along racial, ethnic, or religious lines. Once an ethnic group is in power, it tends to exclude other ethnic groups. Compromise seems impossible; one can bargain on material issues like housing, hospitals, and handouts, but how does one split the difference on a national religion? Political competition that is so divisive can rapidly degenerate into violence. Opposition movements, armed rebellions, and coups in Africa have often been directed against ethnically based regimes, many of which came to power through elections. Surveying the breakdown of African and Asian democracies in the 1960s, two scholars concluded that democracy "is simply not viable in an environment of intense ethnic preferences." Recent studies, particularly of Africa and Central Asia, have confirmed this pessimism. A distinguished expert on ethnic conflict, Donald Horowitz, concluded, "In the face of this rather dismal account . . . of the concrete failures of democracy in divided societies . . . one is tempted to throw up one's hands. What is the point of holding elections if all they do in the end is to substitute a Bemba-dominated regime for a Nyanja regime in Zambia, the two equally narrow, or a southern regime for a northern one in Benin, neither incorporating the other half of the<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/other/democracy.html#n8| state]]</span>?" Over the past decade, one of the most spirited debates among scholars of international relations concerns the "democratic peace" -- the assertion that no two modern democracies have gone to war with each other. The debate raises interesting substantive questions (does the American Civil War count? do nuclear weapons better explain the peace?) and even the statistical findings have raised interesting dissents. (As the scholar David Spiro points out, given the small number of both democracies and wars over the last two hundred years, sheer chance might explain the absence of war between democracies. No member of his family has ever won the lottery, yet few offer explanations for this impressive correlation.) But even if the statistics are correct, what explains them? Kant, the original proponent of the democratic peace, contended that in democracies, those who pay for wars -- that is, the public -- make the decisions, so they are understandably cautious. But that claim suggests that democracies are more pacific than other states. Actually they are more warlike, going to war more often and with greater intensity than most states. It is only with other democracies that the peace holds. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">When divining the cause behind this correlation, one thing becomes clear: the democratic peace is actually the liberal peace</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Writing in the eighteenth century, Kant believed that democracies were tyrannical, and he specifically excluded them from his conception of "republican" governments, which lived in a zone of peace. Republicanism, for Kant, meant a separation of powers, checks and balances, the rule of law, protection of individual rights, and some level of representation in government (though nothing close to universal suffrage). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Kant's other explanations for the "perpetual peace" between republics are all closely linked to their constitutional and liberal character: a mutual respect for the rights of each other's citizens, a system of checks and balances assuring that no single leader can drag his[ or her] country into war</span></span>, and classical liberal economic policies -- most importantly, free trade -- which create an interdependence that makes war costly and cooperation useful. Michael Doyle, th leading scholar on the subject, confirms in his 1997 book Ways of War and Peace that </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">without constitutional liberalism, democracy itself has no peace-inducing qualities: Kant distrusted unfettered, democratic majoritarianism, and his argument offers no support for a claim that all participatory polities -- democracies -- should be peaceful, either in general or between fellow democracies</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Many participatory polities have been non-liberal. For two thousand years before the modern age, popular rule was widely associated with aggressiveness (by Thucydides) or imperial success (by Machiavelli) . . . The decisive preference of [the] median voter might well include "ethnic cleansing" against other democratic polities. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The distinction between liberal and illiberal democracies sheds light on another striking statistical correlation</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Political scientists</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Jack </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Snyder and</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Edward </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Mansfield contend</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, using an impressive data set, that </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">over the last 200 years democratizing states went to war significantly more often than either stable autocracies or liberal democracies. In countries not grounded in constitutional liberalism, the rise of democracy often brings with it hyper-nationalism and war-mongering. When the political system is opened up, diverse groups with incompatible interests gain access to power and press their demands. Political and military leaders, who are often embattled remnants of the old authoritarian order, realize that to succeed that they must rally the masses behind a national cause. The result is invariably aggressive rhetoric and policies, which often drag countries into confrontation and war</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Noteworthy examples range from Napoleon III's France, Wilhelmine Germany, and Taisho Japan to those in today's newspapers, like Armenia and Azerbaijan and Milosevic's Serbia. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The democratic peace, it turns out, has little to do with democracy.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">These conflicts independently go nuclear </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Jentleson ‘96</span>
Bruce W. Jentleson, director, Terry Sanford Inst of Public Policy, prof public policy and poli sci, Duke), June 1996, University of California, Davis, Policy Paper # 27, http://igcc.ucsd.edu/pdf/policypapers/pp27.pdf
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are three bases for this claim. </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The first goes back to the questions raised earlier about the validity of the common assumption by major outside powers like the United States that their interests are better served by waiting to see if the conflict will subside, not spread, or otherwise self-contain. If it were the case that the fires of ethnic conflicts</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, however intense, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">would just burn upon themselves</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and not have significant potential to spread regionally or destabilize more systematically, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">then in strict realist terms one could argue that major powers could afford to just let them be. The Bosnia experience</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, though, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">particularly belies the realism of this assumption.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Moreover, as Lake and Rothchild and other authors in their volume delineate in their articles, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">there is substantial analytic and theoretical basis for concluding that Bosnia is not an exception, and that the risks of both diffusion and escalation of ethnic conflicts are quite substantial</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. There may be direct contagion through the actual physical movement of people and weapons, and/or demonstration effects (Kuran), and/or other modes of diffusion. T</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">here also may be the horizontal escalation of drawing in outside powers, even if not as direct combatants, which can have damaging effects on their overall relations and thus reverberate through the international system.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Africa – the plan’s model of the judiciary is modeled there</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Palmer ‘01</span>
Vernon Valentine Palmer, Professor of Law, Tulane University School of Law, March 2001, Tulane Law Review
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As we enter the twenty-first century, the attitude one encounters toward comparative law in the United States might, in some ways, compare with the attitudes that prevailed in France in the first half of the nineteenth century. We recall that a certain paradox existed then. While the French Civil Code was spreading triumphantly across [*1094] Europe and around the world (sometimes manu militari, other times admiringly received like written reason itself), and becoming perhaps the greatest legal export ever seen, at home, the jurists of France maintained the narrowest, most self-absorbed focus possible. This was the height of l'ecole de l'exegese; France considered itself cut off from the wider world of civil law. One recalls the phrase of Bugnet, an early commentator: "I know nothing of civil law; I only teach the code Napoleon." To use a trendy word, the code was headed global (even reaching la belle Louisiane) while French jurists only thought local. The land of Montesquieu was oblivious to comparative law. [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=205aa6367116ade556dde4e385aae1b5&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkAB&_md5=91b0052552147d6fb3f83048b4c33696&focBudTerms=As%20we%20enter%20the%20twenty-first%20century&focBudSel=all#n2|2]] To my eyes there is a similar phenomenon in the United States, and it is illustrated by the attitude of our judges, legislators, mainstream scholars, and law reformers. I am aware that public law is not an area that comparativists usually focus upon; nevertheless, it seems natural for an American perspective to begin there, for that is where the guiding attitude has its source. Now as everyone knows, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States Constitution has been a prodigious influence on world constitutionalism, particularly in regard to the spread of the concept of judicial review and the notion of justiciable human rights</span></span>. [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=205aa6367116ade556dde4e385aae1b5&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkAB&_md5=91b0052552147d6fb3f83048b4c33696&focBudTerms=As%20we%20enter%20the%20twenty-first%20century&focBudSel=all#n3|3]] In the post-World War II era, perhaps <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">our greatest donation to the constitutional systems of</span></span> Europe, Asia, India<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, Africa,</span></span> and Latin America <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">has been the central principles of our Constitution and a wealth of Supreme Court interpretative jurisprudence.</span></span> [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=205aa6367116ade556dde4e385aae1b5&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkAB&_md5=91b0052552147d6fb3f83048b4c33696&focBudTerms=As%20we%20enter%20the%20twenty-first%20century&focBudSel=all#n4|4]] Yet <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">our High Court, which sets the pattern and tone for the entire judiciary of this country and is regarded in many other countries as the prototype for their own constitutional courts,</span></span> probably uses comparative law less than any constitutional court in the world. Wedded to its precedents and narrowly nationalistic about sources of law, the Court resolutely ignores the constitutional experience of others. "The typical American judge would not think of learning from an opinion by the German or French [*1095] constitutional court." [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=205aa6367116ade556dde4e385aae1b5&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkAB&_md5=91b0052552147d6fb3f83048b4c33696&focBudTerms=As%20we%20enter%20the%20twenty-first%20century&focBudSel=all#n5|5]] For example, recently, Justice Breyer suggested that the Court should weigh and consider the experience of the European Union. [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=205aa6367116ade556dde4e385aae1b5&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkAB&_md5=91b0052552147d6fb3f83048b4c33696&focBudTerms=As%20we%20enter%20the%20twenty-first%20century&focBudSel=all#n6|6]] This was summarily dismissed by Justice Scalia's majority opinion: "We think such comparative analysis inappropriate to the task of interpreting a constitution, though it was of course quite relevant to writing one... . The fact is that our federalism is not Europe's." [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=205aa6367116ade556dde4e385aae1b5&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkAB&_md5=91b0052552147d6fb3f83048b4c33696&focBudTerms=As%20we%20enter%20the%20twenty-first%20century&focBudSel=all#n7|7]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">African democracy is at a crossroads – there’s substantial positive momentum but also a high risk of backsliding</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Prempeh ‘06</span>
H. Kwasi Prempeh, Professor of Law at Seton Hall Law School, former Director of Legal Policy and Governance at the Ghana Center for Democratic Development. "Marbury in Africa: Judicial Review and the Challenge of Constitutionalism in Contemporary Africa" March, 2006, 80 Tul. L. Rev. 1239
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">In contemporary Africa, democratization and constitutionalism are pursued in tandem. </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Although the results have been mixed and remain tentative, at least <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the movement to democratize politics in Africa has registered important successes</span></span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=103df7e0a63b4e8f419701ae2fff436c&csvc=bl&cform=bool&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAb&_md5=ea1fb5b94ef6f4b9dee695e7a00f7f2b#n170|170]]</span> The era of one-party regimes appears to be over in Africa, as is the coup d'etat as the normal method of regime change in countries like Ghana and Nigeria. Instead, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">throughout common law Africa, independently supervised competitive elections have become a fairly routine means of selecting and changing government, and, in combination with new presidential</span></span> [*1278] <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">term limits, have eliminated from the political landscape the phenomenon of "president for life." While the breadth of political reform in Africa is widely acknowledged, doubts remain as to the depth or durability of its impact</span></span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=103df7e0a63b4e8f419701ae2fff436c&csvc=bl&cform=bool&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAb&_md5=ea1fb5b94ef6f4b9dee695e7a00f7f2b#n171|171]]</span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The doubts are strongest regarding progress toward constitutionalism</span></span>. Even in the face of current political and constitutional reforms <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">in Africa, presidential hegemony persists, political corruption and abuse of office are disturbingly rife, and the rule of law remains weakly institutionalized at best</span></span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=103df7e0a63b4e8f419701ae2fff436c&csvc=bl&cform=bool&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtz-zSkAb&_md5=ea1fb5b94ef6f4b9dee695e7a00f7f2b#n172|172]]</span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">all of which prompt skeptics to query whether Africa's reforming polities can indeed graduate from electoral to liberal democracy or whether illiberal democracy</span></span> - "democracy without constitutionalism," that is - is a more likely prospect. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Africa's common law states may have passed the "elections" bar, but is constitutionalism in their future? The "default" answer to this question, in light of Africa's past experience, is negative,</span></span> implying that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the burden is on those who believe otherwise to state their case and overcome the presumption of futility</span></span>. The debate, however, need not proceed in the abstract; the terms of the debate have already been well framed by the pessimists.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Democratization in Africa is entirely contingent on judicial strength – all other changes have been made</span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Prempeh ’06</span></span> <span class="cardChar">[H. Kwasi, law prof at Seton Hall Law School, former Director of Legal Policy and Governance at the Ghana Center for Democratic Development. "Marbury in Africa: Judicial Review and the Challenge of Constitutionalism in Contemporary Africa" March, 2006 80 Tul. L. Rev. 1239]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Constitutions are hardly a novel idea in Africa. Yet, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">constitutionalism has eluded African states since the early years of independence</span></span> in the 1960s. Since the 1990s, however, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the progress of democratization in several common law African states has opened new vistas of opportunity for the reestablishment of constitutionalism on the continent</span></span>. As a start, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">most of Africa's new democracies have reformed their constitutions, entrenching new bills of rights and granting courts an express power of judicial review</span></span>.In this Article, I have been concerned with assessing the promise that these processes might represent. Despite understandable pessimism arising from the past failures, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">fundamental changes in the social and political environment within Africa's new democracies make this latest attempt at constitutionalism more promising</span></span> in its prospects. Still, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">because it rests excessively on judicial review and has failed thus far to pursue opportunities for structural reform of power in the African state, this latest effort stops short of what is needed to root constitutionalism and contain governmental power in postauthoritarian Africa</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Constitutionalism in Africa failed in the past</span></span>, not primarily because of judicial failure, as is widely assumed, but principally <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">because of the excessive aggregation and monopolization of power by a centralized unitary executive and the successful legitimation of this policy in supraconstitutional terms</span></span>. While the democratic constitution is fast emerging as the primary source of legitimacy for Africa's new governments, important gaps remain regarding progress toward meaningful constitutionalism. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Current constitutional reform in Africa </span></span>[*1323] <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">has placed the burden of promoting constitutionalism unduly on the courts and</span></span>, for the matter, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">on episodic judicial enforcement of textual rights</span></span>. Further constitutional reform is necessary to reconfigure the organization and distribution of power within the African state <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">and</span></span> thereby <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">tame the executive hegemony and excessive centralization of power in Africa that continue to characterize government and politics in Africa</span></span>. Only then might the promise of a "second liberation" that is represented by the opening of political space in contemporary Africa be meaningfully and sustainably realized for the benefit of Africa's peoples.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Loose interpretation of stare decisis is key to effective courts which check illiberal authoritarianism</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Prempeh ‘06</span>
H. Kwasi Prempeh, Professor of Law at Seton Hall Law School, former Director of Legal Policy and Governance at the Ghana Center for Democratic Development. In The Global Divergence Of Democracies, ed Larry Diamond 2001 p260-261
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Africa's judiciaries are emerging at last from decades of powerlessness and marginalization at the hands of omnipotent executives and strongmen. Constitutional reforms that have accompanied democratic transitions </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in countries like Benin, Ghana, Malawi, Namibia, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">are helping to redefine</span></span> the role <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and enhance the stature of the judiciary in the contemporary African state.</span></span> While past judiciaries served primarily as passive instruments of legitimation for authoritarian regimes, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">today’s African courts,</span></span> like their counterparts in emerging democracies elsewhere, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">must enforce constitutional limitations on the exercise of governmental power</span></span>,<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> as well as protect the rights of citizens, the media, and civil society. The idea of judicial review is now enthusiastically embraced in a growing number of African countries. Establishing judicial review is, of course, the easy part</span></span>; a clause or two in the national constitution is generally all that is required to bestow such awesome power on the courts. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The challenge is to ensure that judges in newly democratizing states exercise their new power so as to advance and deepen the transition to constitutional democracy</span></span>. This is indeed a matter of genuine concern, because judicial review, though widely celebrated by democrats and constitutional architects in transitional democracies, is not quite the unmitigated virtue it is frequently made out to be. As Alexander Bickel has reminded us, “<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">judicial review means</span></span> not only that the Court may strike down a legislative [or executive] action as unconstitutional but also <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">that it may validate it as within constitutionally granted powers and as not violating constitutional limitations.” Because judicial review “performs not only a checking function but also a legitimating function</span></span>,” it is a double-edged sword. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">If exercised courageously</span></span> (but prudently) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to defend rights or hold the line against abuses of power, it could enhance constitutionalism in transitional democracies</span></span>. In the hands of weak, insecure, or illiberal judges, however, judicial review could easily become an even more formidable instrument for legitimating authoritarianism. Thus Africa’s newly democratizing states must seek to minimize the risk that judicial review will become a curse rather than the blessing it was meant to be. Because it has generally been assumed that the African judiciary’s primary problem to date has been that lack of institutional autonomy and career security for judges, <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Africa’s contemporary constitutional architects have adopted</span></span> that standard Hamiltonian solution: <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">judicial independence</span></span>. Thus <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Africa’s new constitutions all carry the standard provisions designed to secure judges in their jobs, salaries, jurisdiction, and judgments.</span></span> Judges no longer hold their offices at the sufferance of the executive; judicial salaries and other benefits may not be varied to the judges’ detriment; jurisdiction of the courts may not be diminished at the pleasure of the executive or legislature; and, in general, at least two independent institutions must cooperate in making judicial appointments. In some cases, as in Ghana, the new constitution goes even further by giving the judiciary autonomy in the preparation, administration, and control of its own budget. Except in South Africa and Benin, where newly created “constitutional courts” have been laid over the preexisting judiciary, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Africa’s newly refurbished judiciaries have</span></span> generally <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">consisted entirely of holdovers from the ancient regime “</span></span>grandfathered” into the new constitutional arrangement in the name of institutional continuity. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The assumption seems to have been that, given a new constitution with a host of rights-friendly provisions, limitations on governmental power, and guarantees of judicial independence, judicial review will lead to a liberal-democratic jurisprudence almost as a matter of course. Yet the evidence that is emerging, especially from the common-law jurisdictions, suggests that there is a significant risk that an asymmetrical jurisprudence will take hold, with the constitutional text contemplating a rights-friendly, liberal-democratic jurisprudence while that actual decisions and reasoning of the courts take a different course.</span></span> Ghana’s experience under its new constitution is a case in point. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The case of Ghana indicates that reliance on judicial review and formal guarantees of judicial independence as the exclusive mechanisms for liberating African courts from their authoritarian past may be futile, </span></span>unless such reforms are considered as incidental to the more fundamental question of how to produce a paradigm shift in the jurisprudence of the judges. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">If the constitutions of Africa’s transitional democracies can be said to compel a new jurisprudence of constitutionalism, it also appears that recourse to tradition and longstanding common-law docrine,</span></span> an ingrained deference to executive diktat, and the forse of <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">stare decisis all propel Africa’s judges back toward a jurisprudence of executive supremacy. The trajectory of Africa’s democratic transitions will be adversely altered if Africa’s judiciaries fail to make a contemporaneous transition from the jurisprudence of executive supremacy to the jurisprudence of the constitutionalism.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Democratic consolidation is key to African stability</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Diamond ‘98</span>
Larry Diamond, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution and co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, 1998, Hoover Digest, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hooverdigest.org/983/diamond.html| http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/3532546.html ]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">THE PROBLEM </span> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The common</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">root cause</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">of economic decay, state collapse, ethnic violence, civil war, and humanitarian disaster in Africa</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">is bad</span></span>, abusive<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> governance</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Because most states lack any semblance of a rule of law and norms of accountability that bind the conduct of those in government, their societies have fallen prey to massive corruption, nepotism, and the personal whims of a tiny ruling elite. </span></span>In such circumstances, every political clique and ethnic group struggles for control of a stagnant or diminishing stock of wealth. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">There are no institutions to facilitate trust, cooperation, or confidence in the future. Every competing faction tries to grab what it can for the moment while excluding other groups</span></span>. THE SOLUTION  </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The only real antidote</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to this decay is a constitutional framework that facilitates the limitation, separation, devolution, and sharing of power so that each group can have a stake in the system while checking the ruling elite</span></span> and one another. In essence, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">this means a democratic political system</span></span>, to one degree or another. Given Africa’s authoritarian history, many changes in beliefs and institutions will be necessary for democracy to emerge.<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> A growing segment of African elites and the public realize that every type of dictatorship on the continent has been a disaster</span></span>. Thus, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">there is increasing hunger for economic and political freedom and the predictability of a democratic constitution. </span></span>As Hoover Institution senior fellow Barry Weingast pointed out in the American Political Science Review, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">ethnic groups will not trust and tolerate one another and cooperate for a larger national good unless there are credible limits on the state</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Democracy cannot be stable unless rulers see that it is in their interest to abide by the rules. What makes it in their interest is the</span></span> overriding <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">commitment of all major ethnic groups, parties, and interest organizations to a constitution.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">African instability causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Deutsch ‘02</span>
Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Rabid Tiger Project believes that a <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">nuclear war is most likely to start in Africa</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Civil wars in the Congo</span></span> (the country formerly known as Zaire), <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Rwanda, Somalia and Sierra Leone, and domestic instability in Zimbabwe, Sudan and other countries, as well as occasional brushfire and other wars</span></span> (thanks in part to "national" borders that cut across tribal ones) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">turn into a really nasty stew. We've got all too many rabid tigers and potential rabid tigers, who are willing to push the button rather than risk being seen as wishy-washy in the face of a mortal threat and overthrown. Geopolitically speaking, Africa is open range</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Very few countries</span></span> in Africa <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">are beholden to any particular power</span></span>. South Africa is a major exception in this respect - not to mention in that she also probably already has the Bomb. Thus, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">outside powers can more easily find client states there than, say, in Europe where the political lines have long since been drawn, or Asia where many of the countries</span></span> (China, India, Japan) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">are powers unto themselves and don't need any "help," thank you. Thus, an African war can attract outside involvement very quickly. Of course, a proxy war alone may not induce the Great Powers to fight each other. But an African nuclear strike can ignite a much broader conflagration, if the other powers are interested in a fight</span></span>. Certainly, such a strike would in the first place have been facilitated by outside help - financial, scientific, engineering, etc. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Africa is an ocean of troubled waters, and some people love to go fishing</span></span>. Asia is a close second, due to the competition of major powers. For example, in an Indo-Paki confrontation, China may be tempted to side with Pakistan, since China and India are major nuclear powers sharing a long border. However, the Asian powers are basically stable internally, at least for now. The things to watch for are domestic economic and political instability in a nuclear power, the spread of nuclear weapons to new countries and new national antagonisms and great-power ties either weak or nonexistent enough to enable opportunistic alliances and destabilization, or strong enough that the great powers feel compelled to follow their client states.</span>

<span style="color: black;">Independently, strong African judiciaries are key to prevent and contain conflict </span>
Jennifer <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">WIDNER 2001</span></span> (Associate Professor of Political Science—University of Michigan, “Courts and Democracy in Postconflict Transitions: A Social Scientist’s Perspective on the African Case” 95 A.J.I.L. 64, January, Lexis Nexis) 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Where conflict is not so severe and an orientation toward law can already be found, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">courts can sometimes help prevent the spread of armed conflict or its resumption</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In Africa</span></span>, a range of problems can increase the risk of renewed group conflict, including disagreements about the rightful heirs to positions as chief or king, the legitimacy of elections, and contending claims to land. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Settling these disputes through individualized adjudication lessens the chance that contestants will resort to violence or seek to press their claims through group coalitions that spread instability</span></span>. Disputes are less likely to be seen in all-or-nothing terms, and the very process of involvement in adjudication constitutes a civic education in productive means of settling differences. The success of courts in this process depends in part on the character of the substantive law, the persuasiveness and transparency of judges' reasoning, and the pre-existing respect that the courts may attract, as well as features of the underlying situation. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Court action on vigilantism is one kind of action that can yield potential benefits.</span></span> Even in stable and newly prosperous parts of Africa, state institutions often have very limited reach. Taking a matter to the police and then to a judge is expensive and time-consuming, frequently requiring difficult travel. Those seeking police assistance must often pay for fuel for the police to visit a crime scene, and courts sometimes ask litigants to reimburse them for the paper needed to create a file and preserve the official record. Self-help beckons as a tempting solution to problems of order on Africa's frontiers. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">As "outsider crime" increases</span></span> (crime committed by people not from the community), <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">so</span></span>, often, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">does vigilantism. Such self-help often leads to the further disorder of protection rackets, harassment of people who are unpopular because of their age or origin, and intensification of the strains that set communities on edge and breed division. </span></span>In eastern Africa, a surge of cattle rustling, poaching, and other kinds of outsider crime spurred an increase in vigilantism in rural areas during the 1980s and 1990s. Young men from the affected communities organized to provide defense and to round up suspected thieves. In some instances, they even received financial or rhetorical support from governments that were unable to extend effective police protection. But often these groups passed and executed judgment on suspects without anything resembling a fair hearing, rather than turning suspects over to the regular police and courts. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Human rights abuses committed by these vigilante groups also mounted</span></span>. Under these circumstances, vigilantism could easily lead to intercommunal violence, [[#PAGE_71_9975]] [*71] when the different cultural heritages of victims and suspects could give disputes an ethnic tinge and trigger retaliation. In Tanzania, legislative action gave these groups extensive summary powers. However, individuals who suffered injury from them brought constitutional challenges and won restrictions on the role these "traditional armies" could play. Although the government did not immediately execute the courts' decisions that limited the armies' activities, the cases helped begin a public discussion of the dangers that vigilante groups could pose and the appropriate limits on their activity. <span class="blue">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.ucf.edu/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1259168007171&returnToKey=20_T7987286104&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.118442.69507443684#n18|n18]]</span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A second example of the prophylactic effect courts may have on the outbreak or renewal of intercommunal violence centers</span></span> on witchcraft. Many parts of Africa witnessed an upsurge of witchcraft cases in the late 1980s and 1990s--a time when livelihoods were threatened by instability and shortages of critical resources, particularly arable land. No systematic data are available to confirm the magnitude of the trend, but we can gain some sense of the scale of the phenomenon from newspaper reports and editorials, the impressions of lawyers and judges, and even popular anecdote. In Tanzania, the Ministry of Home Affairs recorded that between 1970 and 1984, 3,333 witchcraft-related incidents occurred, and 3,692 people died. <span class="blue">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.ucf.edu/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1259168007171&returnToKey=20_T7987286104&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.118442.69507443684#n19|n19]]</span> Other outbreaks of witchcraft scares took place in settings as diverse as Cameroon and Zimbabwe, and even within the internecine conflict of the antiapartheid movement in South Africa<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. Witchcraft accusations are a familiar technique to attack people perceived as weak or marginal, or, less often, troublemakers. The spread of such accusations can lead to community paranoia and mistrust, and a cascading chain of attacks. </span></span>The courts of eastern and southern Africa have attempted to put a brake on witchcraft scares by placing strict limits on the admissibility of "fear of witchcraft" as a defense to murder. They have limited admissible evidence as well, ruling out the subjective claim of "spectral evidence" as a basis for witchcraft allegations. To use fear of witchcraft as a justification for violence, the defendant must show that he acted in the heat of passion and that an ordinary person would have believed that the victim's actions constituted an act of witchcraft designed to produce harm. Once familiar to westerners, who endured their own struggles to control witchcraft in an earlier era, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the laws and standards are used by the courts to reduce the opportunistic use of witchcraft allegations, which may provoke further community violence</span></span>. When courts loosen these standards, and especially when they allow spectral evidence, retaliatory practices tend to proliferate and the judiciary itself may be pressured to become a forum for pursuing witchcraft suspects. Anecdotal evidence of this pattern surfaced in Cameroon, where the law contained fewer evidentiary restrictions and a flood of witchcraft allegations disrupted communities. <span class="blue">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.ucf.edu/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1259168007171&returnToKey=20_T7987286104&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.118442.69507443684#n20|n20]]</span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A third sphere of judicial activity that may reduce ethnic clashes is the adoption of court-based mediation of serious neighborhood disputes</span></span>. Although customary forums in Africa have stressed mediation of disputes, until recently most state courts did not offer forms of alternative dispute resolution. The increasing acceptance of alternative dispute resolution internationally has spurred local innovation, and an expanding number of [[#ORIGHIT_33]][[#HIT_33]]<span class="hit">African</span> courts now permit and encourage mediation of selected types of cases. A Nigerian experiment has brought community leaders to court to help sort out neighborhood disputes. In Tanzania, communities have asked judges to help resolve group differences. One judge relates the story of an especially intractable conflict that neither elders nor religious leaders had succeeded in resolving. The judge was able to bring the parties together and settle the dispute. With a bit of weariness he remarked, "The people said they were so pleased that they would start to bring all of their problems to the [[#PAGE_72_9975]] [*72] court!" [[#r21]][[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.ucf.edu/us/lnacademic/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1259168007171&returnToKey=20_T7987286104&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.118442.69507443684#n21|n21]] The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">fear and hatred felt by members of one ethnic group toward members of another--for example, the fear of Hutu that Tutsi migrants would come to take their land--may be mitigated if the courts are seen as effective arbiters and mediators of disputes over vital matters.</span></span> The availability of mediation gives the courts wider purchase, settling disputes even when there is no dispositive law to govern the matter. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Most probable scenario for conflict – huge risk of backsliding and failed states in Africa that bring in other great powers</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Walter Russell <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Mead</span></span>, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Senior Fellow @ CFR</span></span>, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">1-20</span></span>-<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;">10</span></span>, “<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2010/01/20/2010s-8-uneven-development/|Global Trends for the 2010s #8: Uneven Development and the African Time Bomb]]</span><span class="title">,” </span>http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2010/01/20/2010s-8-uneven-development/</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The problem of failed and failing states will likely be felt most strongly in Africa.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The picture is not uniform, but <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it seems increasingly likely that some African states</span></span> (and possibly a fair number of them) <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">cannot avoid failure as long as they are organized on their present lines. In northeastern Africa, the dissolution of failing states is well underway; Somalia has largely ceased to exist as a country, Sudan seems to be breaking up into two</span></span> (and possibly more) entities, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and the old Ethiopia broke up when Eritrean independence was recognized back in 1993. Other states have decisively failed</span></span>: the ludicrously named “Democratic Republic of the Congo” exists largely on paper. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Rival armies battle over resources and ethnic hatreds and the central government has been powerless to do anything about it for many years. Millions of people have died in Africa’s conflicts since independence;</span></span> millions more seem likely to do so in the 21st century. And while a handful of sub-Saharan countries post solid economic gains (in 2007 both Angola and Equatorial Guinea were among the world’s ten fastest-growing economies), these resource-fueled booms often do little to help the overall standard of development and in general sub-Saharan Africa overall is poorer and less stable than it was half a century ago and in far too many places the meltdown continues. </span><span class="underline"> <span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Modern history suggests that Africa’s future may be bloodier and more difficult still. In 1850 most of what is now eastern and central Europe plus the modern Middle East was under the control of a handful of multinational states: Russia, Austria, Prussia, and the Ottoman Empire. Those multinational empires broke up one by one into ethnically based ‘nation-states’. The process led to the deaths of scores of millions of people and the creation of tens of millions of refugees</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. It is not over yet; the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has its roots in the imperial crack-up, as do the problems of the Balkans, the Caucasus and the Kurdish question that vexes Turkey, Syria, Iran and Iraq.</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> Many factors led to the break up of the multinational states, and most of them (including the rivalries of outside great powers) are present in Africa today. One of the chief problems was this: a modernizing, developing country requires a strong and effective government. That does not mean that it needs a tyrannical and socialistic one, but it does need a government that is honest and competent enough to establish and maintain the legal, economic and physical infrastructure which a growing market economy needs. Governments must be able to enforce contracts and the law in reasonably transparent and reasonably timely legal procedures</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">; they must maintain the roads, ports, sewer systems and power generation capacity on which modern and especially urban life depends; they must maintain a sound currency and a reasonable macroeconomic environment; they must either build or sponsor a basic health infrastructure; they must provide a solid educational system. All these things turn out to be very hard for multi-religious, multi-cultural and multi-linguistic countries to do. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The </span></span>kind of strong, modernizing state that developing countries need usually seems to require a reasonably high degree of cultural consensus among its citizens. Today,<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> many African governments today can do none of these things; only a very few are doing all of them. In the next decade the continuing and perhaps accelerating state failures in Africa are likely to cause even more suffering and horror than we have seen in the past. </span></span>Or to put this more hopefully,<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> the effort to stave off catastrophes of various kinds in Africa will consume more and more time and attention both of Africans and of other interested parties. It may well be that for parts of Africa, the present network of fragile, multi-tribal states will have to break up and be replaced by smaller countries with more homgenous populations. </span></span>If so,<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> this is almost certain to take place against a background of religious and tribal conflict, genocide and ethnic cleansing. To say this is </span></span>not to single out Africa as a special problem area of the world; it is<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> to suggest that history in Africa may follow a similar pattern to what was seen earlier (and what still goes on today) in Europe and the Middle East.</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> </span></span></span>
----

=<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',Gadget,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">NEGATIVE</span></span></span> </span>=