[[toc]]
If you want cites, please email [[mailto:tmcfarland929@gmail.com|tmcfarland929@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Affirmative and Advantages== 
==Plan--== 
**Plan: The** **United States** **Congress should establish a coordinated national policy for the purpose of creating a space based solar power infrastructure. Requisite funding and enforcement provided.**
==Inherency== 
**nherency: Lack of funding and clear responsibility with the** **United States** **federal government results in lack of development, despite viability of technology.**
[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|**Shea**]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="color: #000033; font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">, 20**10** (Karen Cramer, Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html NP)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">Space solar power has been … anticipation of launch cost reductions</span>__<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>
=Climate Leaderhip ADV (post Durban)= 
**Ineffective Durban talks require a shift in focus from limits on carbon emissions to improving access to cleaner tech.**
**Revkin, environmental writer 2011**
**(**Andrew New York Times December 12 [[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt]] accessed 1/13)
__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Some hard ……limiting environmental harms</span>__.
**Collaboration on energy policy provides international cooperation necessary for long term climate and energy agenda**
**Revkin, environmental writer 2011**
**(**Andrew New York Times December 12 [[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt]] accessed 1/13)
Finally, I like …__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">also </span>__[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/12/02/fostering-education-for-innovation-and-vice-versa/|__in education__]]__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, communication and </span>__[[http://www.ymparisto.fi/default.asp?node=24739&lan=en|__policy__]]__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>__
**Acting now to slowing emissions allows for changes in rate of climate change—inaction results in worsening famine, erratic weather, water shortages**
**NPR, 11-30-11**
[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=142930620]] accessed tm 12-2
The __<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.N.'s top ….secure food supplies.</span>__



<span style="font-size: 16px;">Warming is happening and its anthropogenic </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rahmstorf</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Stefan, __Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto__, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49 accessed </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20i|http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20is%20by%20now%20a%20generally%20undisputed%20point%20%28except%20by%20novelist%20Michael%20Crichton%29%2C%20so%20we%20deal%20with%20it%20only%20briefly.%20The%20two%20leading%20%22&f=false]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> 6-27 TM) </span>

It is time ……<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) that anthropogenic global warming is a reality with which we need to deal.</span>
**All of your DA impacts ranging from disease, immigration, the economy, to terrorism will be exacerbated by climate change – action now prevents runaway warming**
**Becker**//__<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>__//executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project (PCAP)//<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>//worked on energy efficiency and renewable energy programs for 15 years at the U.S. Department of Energy, **2011**
(Bill , “ <span style="color: #333333;">[[http://climateprogress.org/2011/01/24/will-global-warming-chill-obama%e2%80%99s-legacy/|Will global warming chill Obama’s legacy?]]</span>” January 24, 20__11__ http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/01/24/207389/will-global-warming-chill-obama%E2%80%99s-legacy/ accessed6-27 TM)

Finishing the job in Afghanistan and Iraq, reformingimmigration policy and bringing the economyback to health willbe high on the President’s priority list, as they should be. He’s expected to pay special attention to economic recovery in his State of the Union speech tomorrow.
…..when weather variability and climate change combine.
**Now is key – SPS solves climate change and the tech is ready to slow the rate**
**<span style="color: #262626;">Hadhazy, Staff writer for the Scientific American, 9</span>**
<span style="color: #262626; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Adam Hadhazy, scientific american, 4/16/9, </span>[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day|__http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day__]]<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">, 6/23/11, KJ)</span>
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Pacific Gas & Electric Co</span>__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (PG&E) has long invested in </span><span style="color: #1a3566; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=how-renewable-energy-and-storage|renewable energy sources]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">, including geothermal, wind and solar. Earlier this week, the utility company …..says Frank Little, associate director of the CSP.</span>




== == 
==Military Leadership Advantage== 

__**Advantage is** **US** **leadership**__
__**SPS inevitable –** **US** **involvement key to signal investment and improves the** **US** **economy and strengthens military readiness**__
__**Dinerman, author and journalist, 2007**__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Taylor Dinerman, The Space Review, 7/16/7, </span>[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/910/1|__http://www.thespacereview.com/article/910/1__]] <span style="font-size: 11px;">6/24/11, KJ)</span>__
__<span style="font-family: georgia;"><The first steps … why this cannot be made into a win-win outcome.></span>__

__**Scenario one—economic competitiveness**__
__**SPS solves the economy – creates multiple jobs and saves the space industry**__
__**Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07**__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)</span>__
__**<Finding:** <span style="font-size: 11px;">The SBSP Study Group …</span>__ mid<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math';">‐</span>century and beyond. >

__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">SPS development uniquely improves US economic sectors necessary for </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">competitiveness and creates new spin off sectors solidifying the </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> economic position</span>**</span>__
__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Mahan, Author and Engineer, No Date Given</span>**</span>__
__<span style="font-family: georgia; font-size: 11px;">(Rob Mahan, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">[[http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/#01|http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/#01]]</span><span style="font-family: georgia; font-size: 11px;">, Last Modified 06/24/2011, as)</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">Yes, several very important ones. </span>__…not by force, but by example__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.></span>__


__**Economic competitiveness key to** **US** **leadership Competitiveness is key to leadership**__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">Rocco </span>__**Martino**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> __(Ph.D. in astrophysics from the Institute of Aerospace Studies, Senior Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute) Spring__ </span>**2007**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> __“A Strategy for Success: Innovation Will Renew American Leadership”, Orbis, Vol. 51, No. 2__</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">Much of the foreign policy discussion … involving economic competitiveness and energy dependence.</span>__

__**Scenario Two is Readiness**__
__**US** **military pursuing renewable energy as a replacement for high cost of conventional fuels**__
__**MacDonald,** CTO at Skyline solar, **2011**__
__**(**Bob, “How the military and solar industry can work together” Sept 1 [[http://gigaom.com/cleantech/how-the-military-and-solar-industry-can-work-together/]] accessed tm 9-11)__
<span style="font-size: 15px;">The U.S. military is the</span>__…..__<span style="font-size: 15px;">renewable energy adoption</span>__.__

__**Military readiness challenged by lack of energy supply**__
__**NSSO**, Office of Space Security, <span style="color: black;">Oct. **2007** </span>__
__<span style="color: black;">(National Security Space Office</span>; [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf|__http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf__]]<span style="color: black;">;Oct. 10,2007;tr)</span>__
__<FINDING:__ The SBSP Study Group found …ombusting fossil fuels increases.>

__**Solar powered systems save resources and funding for the military**__
__**Goel, 11**__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Tarun Goel, brighthub, 5/17/11, </span>[[http://www.brighthub.com/environment/renewable-energy/articles/89238.aspx|__http://www.brighthub.com/environment/renewable-energy/articles/89238.aspx__]]__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">, 6/23/11, KJ)</span>__
__<span style="font-family: georgia; font-size: 11px;">In the US, a huge amount is spent every year on military operations. ….</span><span style="font-family: georgia;"> twice the energy of existing capacitors</span><span style="font-family: georgia; font-size: 11px;">. </span>__


__**SPS solves readiness – energy on demand and surveillance aspects key to maintaining appropriate force structures**__
__**Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07**__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;"><For </span>__the DoD specifically, beamed … to a strategically secure energy supply__<span style="font-size: 11px;">. ></span>__

__**Hegemony key to prevent nuclear war**__
__**Kagan 2007**__
__<span style="font-size: 9px;">[Robert-, Sr. Assoc. @ the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Sr. Transatlantic Fellow @ the German Marshall Fund, Real Clear Politics, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/]]end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]</span>__
The current order__<span style="font-size: 9px;">, of course, </span>__is not only far from …will provide an easier path__<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span>__
==Solvency== 
__**Contention Three Solvency:**__

__**Congress Key—NASA and Department of Energy need Congressional action to increase space based solar power.**__
__[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|**Schubert**]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">, Ph.D., P.E., Packer Engineering, Inc., Naperville, IL, 20**10** (Peter J., Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html NP)</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">At present, neither NASA, …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A new organization is needed</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>__
__**Coordinated national policy will ensure development of space based solar power. This also means that your xo counterplan won’t work without the coordination provided by the plan.**__

__**Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07**__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11px;"><FINDING</span><span style="font-family: georgia;">: The SBSP Study Group … to mediate the collaboration and serve as an advocate for supportive policy, progress is likely to be slow</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">. ></span>__


__**The technology does exists now - similar to communication satellites just needs more investment**__
__**Goldenberg, US environment correspondent, 09**__
__(Suzanne Goldenberg, April 16, 2009, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2009/apr/16/solar-energy-farms-space]], JP)__
__<span style="color: #1d1d1d;"><Solaren has released relatively ….. </span>__that this is not really a technology issue__.">

=Negative= 
==Semis Hockaday tournament/Emory Round 3 versus Greenhill Space guard== 
<span class="Underline">**Offcase** </span>
<span class="Underline">**T vagueness---SSA spec** </span>
U.S. National Space Policy August 31, 2006 (Unclassified)
[[http://www.nss.org/resources/library/spacepolicy/2006NationalSpacePolicy.htm]] accessed tm 10/12
To achieve the goals of this policy, the Secretary of Defense shall:…. declassification of defense activities related to space
Space Guard not increase space development and exploration
. increase presupposes something that exists

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Brown 2003 (US Federal Judge – District Court of Oregon (Elena Mark and Paul Gustafson, Plaintiffs, v. Valley Insurance Company and Valley Property and Casualty, Defendants, 7-17, Lexis)</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">FCRA does not define the term "increase." … at a lower price.</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">2. </span> SPACE EXPLORATION MEANS SPACE TRAVEL FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISCOVERY.

Desai 03-Currently an Engineer at Northrop Grumman Corporation, this was written as a report for his graduate degree, Northrop Grumman is a leading global security company providing innovative systems, products and solutions in aerospace, electronics, information systems, and technical services to government and commercial customers worldwide. (2003, Ankit, “The Cost Ethics of Space Exploration”, http://cseserv.engr.scu.edu/StudentAccounts/ENGR019Fall2003/ADesai/ADesai_ResearchPaper.pdf)
First, __let me define what space exploration …__the planets using the telescope.(1)

3. SPACE DEVELOPMENT MEANS COMMERCIAL EXPLOITATION OF OUTER SPACE.
Eric Westling, guest on the space show 9/11/07, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298//jchen//
//Eric Westling is a science writer, pundit on science, technology, and economics. …as <span class="Underline">the rapid expansion of manned commercial projects in space.</span>//


**//1nc International SSA CP//**
//Solvency—CP solves for international law, debris removal and transparency//
//International cooperation with private and public sectors necessary for full SSA benefits//
//Weeden,// Secure World Foundation//, 2009//
//(Brian “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...” __SATmagazine__ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] accessed tm 10-12)//
//Looking forward, we can outline what the desired solution …for the benefit of all humankind.//
//International civil cooperation necessary—the plan doesn’t solve//
//Weeden,// Secure World Foundation//, 2009//
//(Brian “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...” __SATmagazine__ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] accessed tm 10-12)//
//In the meantime, __space actors must turn to methods of minimizing the effects of existing debris on their spacecraft and …..elements to develop a persistent, predictive picture of the space environment that includes adversarial intent.__//

//Only information sharing provides best SSA –even if US has to be involved it has to be involved in a cooperative way//
//Bennett, George Washington Univ Space Policy, 2010//
//(James, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and AOther US Space Responsibilities” October 2010 [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]] accessed tm 9/26)//
//I. Characteristics and Requirements. __Recent events … of the system as it evolves.__//


**//Block ev International SSA CP solvency//**
//International SSA provides comprehensive tracking information coordinate for most effective response to debris//
//Weeden,// Secure World Foundation//, 2009//
//(Brian “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...” __SATmagazine__ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] accessed tm 10-12)//
//__International civil space situational awareness ….operators….__ be able to track it.//


//Bennett, George Washington University Space Policy Institute, 2010//
//(James “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities” October 2010 [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf%20accessed%20tm%2010-11|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf accessed tm 10-11]])//
//__At the same time, the need for cooperative action…defense/intelligence community.__//

//Weeden,// Secure World Foundation//, 2009
(Brian “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...” __SATmagazine__ [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]] accessed tm 10-12)
__As they currently stand, ….__to just geosynchronous orbit.


**<span style="color: #000000;">Garretson, 9</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> - Transformational Air and Space Power Strategist currently on an International Fellowship with the Council on Foreign Relations (Peter, The Space Review, “</span>Elements of a 21st century space policy,” 8/3, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1433/1]])

While __policy__ is a …no wedge for our adversaries to diminish the moral bonds with those partners and the uncommitted.

Payroll tax cuts DA

A. Unique internal link---Obama focused on pushing payroll tax extension through congress—will pass
Youngman, 11-10-11
(Sam, [[http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/192973-white-house-thinks-obama-has-regained-upper-hand-with-gop%20accessed%20tm%2011-10|http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/192973-white-house-thinks-obama-has-regained-upper-hand-with-gop accessed tm 11-10]])
__President Obama has regained the “upper hand” on economic issues with voters__, according to White House officials, who warned …__Republicans won’t hold up__.
<span style="color: #000000;">B. Plan drains political capital </span>Space guard creation would cost political capital
Bennett, 2011
(James “<span class="sifr-alternate">Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space” __The New Atlantis__ h</span>[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space|ttp://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]]<span class="Underline"> accessed tm 10-12)</span>
<span class="tallcap">__C__</span>__reating a Space Guard …__also which political actors might benefit sufficiently to justify the expenditure of their capital.
C Impact—
1. Failure to pass payroll tax extensions result in a double dip recession
The Nation (Thailand) October 12 2011 lexis
__Failure by US politicians …US workers to spend.__
2. Continued economic downturn leads to global war
Lind, New America Foundation Economic Growth Program Policy Director, 2010
(Michael, "Will the great recession lead to World War IV?," 5/11/2010 [[http://www.salon.com/2010/05/11/great_recession_world_war_iv/]] accessed tm 10-13 )
__If history is any guide, ….resembling Orwell’s shifting coalitions of Eurasia, Eastasia and Oceania in 1984 is all too easy to imagine.__

China Militarization DA 1NC
A. US approach to maintaining its space primacy now is cooperative and accommodative of China. This sends a signal that space is to be shared, even if competition exists between private companies.
Fukushima, National Institute Defense Studies, 2011
(Yasuhito, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/science/journal/02659646|Space Policy]], Feb 2011 ebsco 6/20 rs)
<__Under these circumstances…and enable market access for US industry.”>__
B. Link—Unilateral increases in space exploration and development like the plan disrupt the balance in space relations between China and the US, causing China to seek aggressive militarization of space
Su, Xiao Jiaotong University, 2010
( Jinyuan Su, Space Policy, The Silk Road Institute of International and Comparative Law, School of Law, Xi'an Jiaotong University, August 2010, sciencedirect, accessed 6/27 ST)
(The illegality and ineffectiveness …shoot down a faulty spy satellite on 20 February 2008.[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/science/article/pii/S0265964610000573#fn62|62]]

c. 1. Chinese Space militarization in response to US leads to war and instability including first strike and escalation
Hitchens, CDI Director, 2008 (Theresa Hitchens, Scientific American, CDI Director, March 2008, Academic Search Database)
<Given the proliferation of spacefaring entities … __reliably distinguishing an intentional act from an accidental one would be highly problematic.)__
2. Unchecked space militarization leads to nuclear war
Ross Reporter for the Chicago Daily News 2009
(Sherwood Ross, “Space Race Increasing Risk of Nuclear War,” __Atlantic Free Press__, [[http://www.atlanticfreepress.com/news/1/8948-space-race-increasing-risk-of-nuclear-war.html%20accessed%206-28|http://www.atlanticfreepress.com/news/1/8948-space-race-increasing-risk-of-nuclear-war.html accessed 6-28]] tm)

__An unchecked race to militarize space__ ,…__nuclear war__,” he said.

Case args v debris/international law adv
Their Brisibe evidence is talking about Nigeria—no reason that the US involvement in SSA analogous to their authors argument about Nigeria space law. The evidence even uses whilst—and there’s no evidence that the US even belongs to the same international institutions that the evidence is talking about
Brisibe 2006
(Tare, PhD and Legal Services and International Cooperation Head at the Universtity Of Mississippi School of Law, __JOURNAL OF SPACE Law__, “Outer Space Activities and Intellectual Property Protection in Nigeria” Volume 32, No. 2, Winter 2006, ebsco accessed tm 10-11)
However, __considering …__attendant intellectual property rights.

A switch to airpower undermines Hegemony – leads to prolif, China escalation, and WMD use
<span class="Underline">**Collins, 06**</span> [Joseph J. Collins, is professor of national security studies at the National War College. He served as deputy assistant secretary of defense for stability operations from 2001 to 2004 “From the Ground Up” [[http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2006/10/2088164]]]

<span class="Underline">Many of General …, lest we be consumed by them.</span>

==Case cards versus greenhill round 3 emory== 
Aerospace
**Alt causes to lack of launches – decline in telecommunication industry, FAA restrictions. Plan doesn’t fix those problems or encourage more of those kinds of launches**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Gerald L. </span>**Dillingham**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Ph. D., Director of Physical Infrastructure Issues, “COMMERCIAL SPACE TRANSPORTATION Industry Trends and Key Issues Affecting Federal Oversight and International Competitiveness”, </span>**5/5/2011**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11629t.pdf, accessed on June 27, 2011, CJJ</span>
__After reaching a peak of 22 launches in 1998… regulations had not been changed.__

**Nanotech bad**
**a. The aerospace industry drives up demand for nanotech**
**Agee, ‘8** –Dr. Forrest J., nanotech researcher at Rice University [ "Nanotechnology for aerospace: potential transitions from university research". [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/12.776736]]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nanotechnology is expected to…. dealing with intellectual property.</span>

Smart Power
Cyber Security will pass- Senate support
The Hill 1/25/12
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Guatham Nagesh, The Hill, January 25 2012, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/hillicon-valley/technology/206485-senators-back-obamas-call-for-cybersecurity-reform]], Accessed January 27, 2012, JDP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Senate Homeland Security Committee Chairman… </span><span class="underline">legislation this year</span>
Weather
Didn’t read any cards, only the analytics that were on the random greenhill adv
==Politics== 
==**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Jackson Vanik shell and block cards</span>__**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama is pushing Congress to repeal Jackson-Vanik early in 2012—Congress favorable to repeal</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Inside U.S. Trade December 23, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> (“WTO members invite Russia to join: US invokes non-application,” JCP Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> In a related development, …products to Russia within each sector.></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Space guard creation would cost political capital </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bennett, 2011 </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">James “</span><span class="sifr-alternate">Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space” __The New Atlantis__ h</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space|ttp://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]] accessed tm 10-12)</span>
<span class="tallcap">__C__</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">reating a Space Guard</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">…</span>expenditure of their capital.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Impact—US- Russia Relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Repeal is key to the Obama’s relations reset strategy-failure would infuriate the Russians</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The Korea Times, October 16, 2011 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Scripps Howard News Service, “Hurting Relations with Russia”, Korea Times 10/16/2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, accessed at [[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2011/10/137_96741.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Two influential Democratic</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">to "reset" relations with Russia</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">.</span>
Relations critical to prevent Russian nationalism
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Simes, </span><span class="tagChar">President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">07</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> [Dimitri, 10/29/07, “Losing Russia,” last accessed 11/7/10, __Real Clear Politics__, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/10/losing_russia.html]]] TD </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But </span>if the current U.S.-Russian <span class="underline0">…with</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> potentially </span><span class="underline0">catastrophic results</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>


And, Nationalist revival causes US-Russian nuclear war
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Israelyan, </span><span class="tagChar">Former Soviet ambassador, diplomat, arms control negotiator, and leading political scientist, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">98</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> [Victor, Winter, 1998, Washington Quarterly, pg. 47] TD</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The first and by far most dangerous possibility …</span><span class="underline0">until we all fall down together</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."</span>




US-Russia war is the only scenario for extinction
__Bostrom, philosopher at Oxford University, 02__ <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Nick, 2002, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” last accessed 11/8/10, __Yale__, [[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]]TD</span>
<span class="underline0">A much greater existential risk…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">will </span><span class="underline0">encounter</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the 21st century</span>.


Our impacts outweigh regardless of probability or timeframe
__Bostrom, philosopher at Oxford University, 05__ <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Nick, July 2005 “Nick Bostrom on our biggest problems,” last accessed 11/8/10, __TED__, [[http://www.ted.com/talks/nick_bostrom_on_our_biggest_problems.html]]]TD</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Now</span>, <span class="underline0">if we think about what just…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">experienced where life was fantastic.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama is pushing Jackson-Vanik repeal—references to Russia in the State of the Union prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Podorova, RusData Dialine - BizEkon News, January 26, 2012</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">(Marina, “Obama may push for Jackson-Vanik Repeal,” RusData-Dialine-BizEkon News, JCP Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"><U.S. __President__ Barack __Obama called__ ...__common interests" the two countries share.__</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">US will push for repeal this year—US ambassador told Russia</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">ITAR-TASS January 25, 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> (“US hopes to lift Jackson-Vanik amendment already this year,” JCP Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">U.S. Administration hopes…__already this year, not next year.>__</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Congress likely to repeal but it could be a battle</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Prime-TASS Business Newswire January 20, 2012</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> (“US expected to lift trade restrictions on Russia,” JCP Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">WASHINGTON, Jan 20 (Dow Jones) -- __A s__…__expressed confidence that Congress will back the move.>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">And, space programs are unpopular—lack of motivation, especially during an economic downturn</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Honan</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Managing Editor for Big Think think tank,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Daniel, Big Think, “The Future of Space Exploration: A Hitchhiker’s Guide,” July 27, http://bigthink.com/ideas/39440, last accessed 8.23.11 [RG]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space exploration has always…required for such a mission.</span>

===SKFTA Politics-Greenhill=== 
1nc SKFTA Good
<span style="font-size: 16.6667px;">A. SKFTA </span>**will pass—SK leader visit putting pressure on Congress to act. Acting before October 13 key to alliance and free trade message.**
**Thai News Sept 16 2011**
**(**lexis access sept 16 tm)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> Geithner </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> summit agenda and joint message to the world. </span>__- Yonhap
<span style="font-size: 16.6667px;">B. Link—Plan decreases Obama’s political capital—insert link evidence</span>
<span style="font-size: 16.6667px;">And, Obama’s political capital is needed to pass SKFTA</span>
Thomas <span style="font-size: 16.6667px;">McLarty and </span>Nelson W. <span style="font-size: 16.6667px;">Cunningham</span>, Chief of staff to President Clinton and aide to Clinton,
January 24, <span style="font-size: 16.6667px;">2011</span>
(“Obama's Free Trade Opportunity,” Wall Street Journal, accessed 1/27/11 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954004576090290103169526.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)
Now, in a few short weeks, Mr. <span class="Underline">Obama has ….</span> a former congressman such as Jim Kolbe or Chris Shays, for example— to help quarterback the effort.

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">SKFTA is a key model for Global Free Trade </span>

<span class="underline0">Cooper and Manyin 7</span> (William and Mark, Specialists in International Trade and Finance and Asian Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “The Proposed South Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA),” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33435.pdf]])

<span class="underline0">In terms of broader …</span> relatively little in commercial benefits.

F**ree Trade Solves War**

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">O’Driscoll and Fitzgerald 02</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Dr. Gerald, former Director, and Sara J., Trade Policy Analyst, the center for International Trade and Economics at The Heritage Foundation, “Trade Promotes Prosperity and Security,” Heritage Backgrounder 1617, 18 Dec, http://www.heritage.org/Research/TradeandForeignAid/BG1617.cfm)</span>
A report by the World …..<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">of peace in Western Europe.</span>

==Counterplan== 
ESA Do It
China Do It
Japan Do It

==Kritiks== 
Cap K--Alt to reject cap

==DAs== 
Space Militarization
China Space Militarization
NASA Earth ScienceTradeoff

==MBA== 
===Round 1=== 
ESA CP
Jackson Vanik Politics
China Mil

===Round 3=== 
ESA CP
Spending DA
Extra T - "Global Distribution"
Jackson Vanik Politics

===Round 5=== 
T - Seti
Public Disclosure CP
Discourse K
Jackson Vanik Politics
ESA CP


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]