<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Info</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contact [[mailto:miagilepner@gmail.com|miagilepner@gmail.com]] for aff cites and [[mailto:charles.rafkin@gmail.com|charles.rafkin@gmail.com]] for neg cites.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For old neg cites, see [[2011-2012 - University of Chicago Lab (IL) - Joyce Harduvel & Charlie Rafkin|Charlie and Joyce's wiki]]. New cites and strategies will be posted here.</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">P.S. - I reorganized the aff section to make it easier to read. If you want cites from old aff verions, feel free to ask!</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ender's Game</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC</span>=== 
====A Kid's Book==== 
**Our first argument is about a kid’s book**

**"We're going to make him the best military commander in history. 'And then put the fate of the world on his shoulders."**

**So begins Orson Scott Card in his seminal novel “Ender’s Game” which dominated my childhood and the childhood of millions of kids like me all over America. I wanted to go to Battle School, to play war games and freeze my friends with guns and move up in the rankings and be chosen because I am special. I must have read Ender’s Game 50 times and I’m not alone.**

**Battle School in the novel was created so that humans would be saved from the beastly enemy, the Buggers, whom the humans were just able to beat twice in a row despite inferior weapons. Kids were schooled there in war games that seemed pretty awesome before they were shipped off to the graduate schools of militarism. Ender, the novel’s protagonist, is a disregarded Third Child in an era where people can only have two children, and he is chosen because his sister Valentine is too sweet and his brother Peter too violent but Ender has just the right temperament for leadership and can predict the moves of his enemies.**

**So Ender is shipped off to Battle School, and plays imaginary video games, simulations of war. Orson Scott Card describes them as a hyper reality: “The mind game is a relationship between the child and the computer. Together they create stories. The stories are true, in the sense that they reflect the reality of the child’s life…the computer’s making this up as it goes along.”**

**Finally Ender gets the guts to drop the nuke, in what he thinks is a game, on the Bugger’s home planet. Oops! It wasn’t a game, Ender! You committed Xenocide. And so, Ender eliminated the only alien species humans ever had known.**

**After I grew up and stopped reading so much science fiction, I joined debate, where I was trained not with guns but with speaking drills to eliminate my opponents. I was told to hate the people I couldn’t beat because they beat me and to hate the people I could beat because they were an insult to the game. I have read affirmatives that proclaim the wonders of American exceptionalism and 15 internal links to “china war” and, just like Ender, surrendered myself to the simulation. Space is militarized and so is debate. We have transformed from policymakers to war-makers, stuck in a race to the biggest impact.**

**As Orson Scott card describes,**
**“‘In the moment when I truly understand my enemy, understand him well enough to defeat him, then in that very moment I also love him. I think it’s impossible to really understand somebody, what they want, what they believe, and not love them the way they love themselves. And then, in that very moment when I love them-..... I destroy them. I make it impossible for them to ever hurt me again. I grind them and grind them until they don’t exist.’”**

**Thus, rather than the understanding of space through the violent and militaristic “exploration and/or development,” Mia and I advocate space as a form of liberation. Mia and I advocate an organic intellectualization of the resolution, a form of education that doesn’t exclude or entrench us in a hyper reality. Debate should be a site for people to interact with difference. The role of the ballot is to determine which team better solves for oppression and violence.**

====Why this Matters==== 
**Now, your next reason to start writing on a new sheet of paper is remember why this matters**

**Orson Scott Card justifies all of Ender’s atrocities by creating him as “the innocent killer.” Because Ender’s intentions are good, his actions are justified. This twisted, utilitarian logic makes genocide justifiable. – we do not endorse gendered language. Kessel writes in 04,**
(John, originally published in Foundation, the International Review of Science Fiction, Vol. 33, Number 90, Spring 2004, copyright © 2004 by the Science Fiction Foundation, “Creating the Innocent Killer: Ender's Game, Intention, and Morality” [[http://www4.ncsu.edu/~tenshi/Killer_000.htm]] MGE)

__This__, I fear, __is the appeal … **will not accept that**.__` —JK

**We can learn something from Ender’s Game. The military sure did. Just ask Michael Macedonia—he’s the director of the Army’s training simulation center and it inspired him. Today, war games have infiltrated every aspect of our lives and simulations are making war a reality. Harmon elucidates in 2003,**
(Amy, The New York Times, “More Than Just a Game, But How Close to Reality?” http://www.nytimes.com/2003/04/03/technology/more-than-just-a-game-but-how-close-to-reality.html?pagewanted=all&src=pm)
THE noise level was rising, __… see consequences of their decisions.''__

**Let’s stop simulating. Ender’s simulation results in an unimaginable violence, the elimination of the potential cooperation and mutual love between two species. Debaters simulate a hundred billion times a tournament and let’s just stop. To do otherwise is to risk horrorible atrocities. As der derian explains in 1998,**
(James, Associate Professor of Political Science at University of Massachusetts Amherst, On Security, Columbia University Press, Chapter 2: “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” Columbia International Affairs Online, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz.html</span>)
Baudrillard goes beyond Nietzsche in … simulations was and is unsurprising.

**This enforces militarized knowledge which further entrenches the system and causes violent policy. BondGrahm writes in 2003,**
(PhD Sociology UC Santa Barbara, and Hell, UC Fiat Pax Research Project Group, Higher Education Militarization Resource, 2003 Darwin, Emily, “The Militarization of America’s Universities”, Fiat Pax, UC Santa Cruz Press, pages 3-4, [[http://www.fiatpax.net/demil.pdf]] MGE)
__The militarization__ __of__ __knowledge is … have only accomplished the latter.__

**Ender’s simulations, and the simulations in debate all start from a form of otherness. Orson Scott Card’s “Buggers” are a stand in for the war against queers – this occurs in debates over futurity and normalcy and this debate space is no exception. Ender, and the debaters within us, emerge as the savior of heterosexuality. Campbell explains in 2009,**
(James, “Kill the Bugger: Ender’s Game and the Question of Heteronormativity” Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 36, No. 3 (November 2009) MGE)
__Ender'__ s formative __experience__ __is__ thus __… **safe for normative, procreative heterosexuality**__**.**

**First, this logic result in destruction that kills all potential queers. Sedwick writes in 1998,**
**.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Eve, former Newman Ivey … opened and opened and opened?</span>

**And secondly it prevents the ability to interact with queerness in the debate space. As** **Steyaert writes in 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Doctor in Psychology and Professor in Organizational Psychology at the University of St. Gallen (January 2010, Chris, //Gender, Work and Organization.,// “Queering Space: Heterotopic Life in Derek Jarman’s Garden”, vol. 17, no. 1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Underline">rich artistic output</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that … </span>, extremely simplified, and extremely poor__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__

====Meaningful Education==== 
**Finally, let’s talk about what is meaningful education**

**Ender’s genius is revealed in Battle School for his wondrous idea to break the games he plays by sending people through the enemy’s gate – he uses people as human shields to reconceive of traditional norms. So we use this metaphor of a frighteningly complicated novel that is frighteningly applicable to break the game that is debate and beat it, once and for all. Johnson writes in 1999,**
(Ian, Research Associate @ Malaspina University- College, “There’s Nothing Nietzsche Couldn’t Teach Ya About the Raising of the Wrist (Monty Python): A Lecture in Liberal Studies”)
__The analogy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I want to put … no claim to privileged access.</span>
===2AC FW=== 
**__FRAMEWORK IS EXCLUSIONARY__ and our aff is proof they force bad forms of education**

**Let me begin with an anecdote. Ender’s platoon leader, Dink, reveals the truth about framework: “It’s all a fake. There //is// no war, and they’re just screwing around with us…as long as people are afraid of the buggers, the I.F. can stay in power, and as long as the IF is in power, certain countries can keep their hegemony…People will catch onto this game pretty soon, and there’ll be a civil war to end all wars. //That’s// the menace, Ender, not the buggers.” This is another indict of state-based education – the IF and the USFG are liars, it’s time to get unbounded education categorically larger and more important.**

**Our vision of debate is one in which we can challenge oppression and interact with difference. We are topical – we just think your interpretation of what is the resolution is bad – we look at it holistically, not at definitions. We advocate space as liberating –**

**Our offense –**

**1) Hyper-reality – their vision of debate-as-simulating policymaking is just what Michael Macedonia does to train his soldiers– this __eliminates empathy__ and creates __static__ education that is militaristic and thus flawed – that’s DerDerian and Bond Graham. __Empathy outweighs__ – policy education is inevitable – we need to break the simulation and regain agency. Prevents war because it means we appreciate other people.**

**2) Queerness – every attempt to regulate us is a codification of hetero-relationships, that’s Staeyert. Plan creates an open positionality that creates an exploration of the self – this outweighs USFG education, creates the tools to prevent oppression. This consumes everyone – magnitude filter – that’s Sedgewick__.__ We control direction of education – all education within heterocoordinates is flawed.**

**Group their offense,**

**First, no rules – that’s Johnson – games are fluid and meant to be broken, and are an expression of historical context. This means that fairness isn’t an impact – there is no golden tablet saying people have to be topical, they can be in other instances but first we reveal the simulation.**

**And, they get ground – impact turn hegemony, kritiks, PIC out of our method, etc – no god given right to USFG DAs.**

**And, we control uniqueness – SQ education is political and destructive, we align ourselves with a new form of education that breaks out of the cycle.**
**Van Gorder 7** Chris Van Gorder; Associate Professor //at Baylor University, Paulo Freire’s Pedagogy for the Children of the Oppressors: Educating for Social Justice among the World’s Privileged”// Published in the Journal of Transformative Education, May 2007.//(http://www.lesley.edu/journals/jppp/13/PDF/VanGorderPDF.pdf)//

__All educational structures__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and theories, … toward social responses that are fundamentally respectful. </span>

**And, no affirmatives meet your interpretation – all fiat is imagination, our act of imagination is no different**
**FREEDMAN 2000** -- Associate Professor of English at Louisiana State University (Carl, “Critical Theory and ScienceFiction” Wesleyan University Press, University Press of London, 20-22)
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">It is a priori likely that </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">most texts …</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;"> difficult cases of Brecht, on the one hand, and //Star Wars// on the other. </span>


**And, this isn’t a voting issue – __We don’t advocate that everyone not use the USFG – this instance is key, because it forces a confrontation with the simulation of debate__. Make them prove 1 instance of clash is necessary. Reflexive decisionmaking is critical. At the end of the novel, Ender realizes the destruction he hath wrought and becomes the Speaker for the Dead. Card hints that this is a form of redemption. __Our framework allows us to gain perspective about the meaning of debate.__**
**Sandlin, 08**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">JENNIFER A. SANDLIN Assistant Professor Educational Administration and Human Resource Development at Texas A and M andJENNIFER</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">L. MILAM 2008 (““Mixing Pop (Culture) and Politics”: Cultural Resistance, Culture Jamming, and Anti-Consumption Activism as Critical Public</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pedagogy” Curriculum Inquiry 38:3)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pedagogical “hinges” refer to those aspects of …</span> __something a little risky and wild, but genuine__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(p. 100) </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Asteroids</span>== 

===1AC Version 1=== 

====Plan==== 

**Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects, including the placement of infrared sensors in a Venus-like orbit.**

====Asteroids==== 

**Advantage 1 is asteroids**



**Status quo fails –**

**A) Current asteroid tracking has ignored many Near Earth Objects and could be reliant on false data. Asteroids still pose a large risk.**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shapiro et al 10 </span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Irwin, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair Faith Vilas, Mmt Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair Michael A’hearn, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair Andrew F. Cheng, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory Frank Culbertson, Jr., Orbital Sciences Corporation David C. Jewitt, University of California, Los Angeles Stephen Mackwell, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. Jay Melosh, Purdue University Joseph H. Rothenberg, Universal Space Network, 2010, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>



__Congress has established for NASA … : Humanity must be constantly vigilant.__



**B) NEOWISE makes your DAs non-unique, but is in hibernation now.**

**Associated Press 9/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“NASA identifies 90 percent of largest near-Earth asteroids” [[http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2011/09/nasa_identifies_90_percent_of.html]] MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> NASA researchers also downgraded … </span>__and is currently in hibernation.__



**C) NEOShield means deflection tech will exist, but it doesn’t go to space – not uniques sagan da**

**Young 1/25** (Elizabeth, “What is NEOShield and what will it do” [[http://www.helium.com/items/2284212-what-is-neoshield-and-what-will-it-do]] MGE)

The National Aeronautic and … __an actual impact threat arises.__



**Extinction from annihilation**

**BBC News 1/23** (1/23/11, “EcoAlert: NEO Shield --Early Warning of the Potential Threat to Earth from a Comet or Monster Asteroid” [[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2012/01/ecoalert-neo-shield-early-warning-of-the-potential-threat-to-earth-from-a-monster-comet-or-asteroid.html]] MGE)

“__The consequences for human …__ K/T or Permian-type mass extinction.



**And from environmental problems**

**Grego 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, Director of Lunar Section Director of Britain's Society for Popular Astronomy (then called the Junior Astronomical Society), editor of both the SPA News Circulars and Popular Astronomy, 1998, Blanford, “Collision Earth!” MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As they are so large … mass extinctions of animal life. </span>



**A reduction of the risk of extinction by 1 millionth of 1 percent is would save ten billion lives and comes before any other impact**

**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become … benefit of such an action.[13] </span>



**A 1 percent solvency deficit to any counterplan outweighs**

**Barbee 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, 4/1/9, Air Power, “Planetary Defense Near-Earth Object Deflection Strategies” [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]] MGE)</span>

It is generally accepted … __process for defense against NEOs.__



====GSN==== 

**Advantage 2 is global science networks**



**First the impacts**



**Disease causes mass death**

**Stienbruer 98**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Senior fellow at the Brookings institute</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(John D. Steinbruner, “Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses,” FOREIGN POLICY n. 109, Winter 1997/1998, pp. 85-96, ASP.)</span>



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is a considerable comfort and … </span>__for the species as a whole____<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>__



**Environment collapse kills a lot of people**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Coyne and Hoekstra 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago AND **Associate Professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University (*Jerry and *Hopi, “The Greatest Dying”, The New Republic, September 24th 2007, June 26th 2010, [[http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatestdying]])**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Every year, up to 30,000 species… </span>greatest dying of them all.**



Plan encourages a multilateral approach that ensures cooperation

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shapiro et al 10 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Irwin, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair Faith Vilas, Mmt Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair Michael A’hearn, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair Andrew F. Cheng, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory Frank Culbertson, Jr., Orbital Sciences Corporation David C. Jewitt, University of California, Los Angeles Stephen Mackwell, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. Jay Melosh, Purdue University Joseph H. Rothenberg, Universal Space Network, 2010, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many scientists, especially among the … </span>dealing with the NEO hazard.**



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spills over to global cooperation</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shapiro et al 10 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Irwin, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair Faith Vilas, Mmt Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair Michael A’hearn, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair Andrew F. Cheng, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory Frank Culbertson, Jr., Orbital Sciences Corporation David C. Jewitt, University of California, Los Angeles Stephen Mackwell, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. Jay Melosh, Purdue University Joseph H. Rothenberg, Universal Space Network, 2010, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The probability of a devastating NEO … </span>__location__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (<1 kilometer error) of impact.</span>**



Solves every impact, including the environment and disease

Sackett 10** (Penny, Chief Scientist for Australia former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories, August 10, 2010, Penny, Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the [[http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]] MGE)

Imagine for a moment that the __…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">frameworks to sustain these links.</span>



====Solvency==== 



**Solvency**



**Venus-like orbit solves, ground based survey doesn’t, deflection tech exists and is an effect of the plan, and your turns case args don’t apply**

<span class="Underline">**Arentz et al 10 – Aerospace** **& Technologies Corp****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. Space, 2010, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” [[http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]] MGE)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This conference is apparently the … a good system model to grasp.</span>





**NASA key to do the plan**

**A) Deflection, crisis mitigation, and international organization**

**Hsu 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeremy, 10/22/10, MSNBC “White House adviser voices asteroid worries” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/ MGE) </span>

__National emergency plans for natural … is considered low__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Holdren said.</span>



**B) <span class="Underline">Four observatories</span>**

<span class="Underline">**Morris 7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jefferson, Reporter, 11/9/7, “Expand Asteroid Search, NASA says” [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=space&id=news/killer110907.xml&headline=Expand%20Asteroid%20Search,%20NASA%20says]] MGE)</span>

Key to the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> current </span>cataloguing … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and $37 million annually to operate. </span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C)</span> **Status quo Surveys**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">National … </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">objects than ground-based telescopes</span>**__.__**



**5 events make it clear that there is a statistical certainty for an asteroid to impact Earth**

**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>

__Over the past several decades, … the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">y might pose to humanity. </span>



**Our impact framework doesn’t stop policymaking**

**Bostrom 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]] MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These considerations suggest that </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">tempting, that implication is implausible.</span>



**Intervening actors don’t solve**

**Schweickart and Garretson 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Russell L., and Peter, Winter 2008, Ad Astra, NSS, “The Threat of Impact” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume20/AdAstra2008ThreatOfImpact.pdf MGE) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is now past the … the nerve to take it on? </span>



====No DAs==== 

**Contention 4 is no disads**



**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction**

**Martin 82**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Department of Mathematics Faculty of Science Australian National University, 1982, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300, “Critique of Nuclear Extinction” [[http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/82jpr.html]] MGE)</span>

__The available evidence suggests that a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">this possibility does not exist.</span>



**No nuclear winter fallout**

**Nyquist 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, 5/20/99, Worldnetdaily.com, MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these … </span>__few (if any) fallout casualties__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Not enough weapons**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ball 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, [[http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf]] MGE)</span>

The<span class="Underline">leading </span>populariserof<span class="Underline"> the ‘</span>… <span class="Underline">them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties). </span>



**And there is a dearth of … . We don’t endorse abelist language**

<span class="Underline">**Goldstein and Pinker 12/18/11**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua S., Professor Emeritus at University of Maryland and Research Scholar, Dept. of Political Science, University of Massachusetts, and Steven, Harvard College Professor and Johnstone Family Professor in the Department of Psychology at Harvard University, “ War Really Is Going Out of Style”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/18/opinion/sunday/war-really-is-going-out-of-style.html]], agf)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The theorythat </span>war<span class="Underline"> is </span>… <span class="Underline">a </span>war at<span class="Underline"> an </span>acceptablecost<span class="Underline">. </span>



**Structural barriers to international conflict**

**Duedney and Ikenberry 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and G. John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, January 2009, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail” [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]] MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This bleak outlook is based … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">of international integration and cooperation.</span>







**Long-term cooperation solves all wars — and a long-term focus mitigates existential risk**

**Brand 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stewart, President of the Long Now Foundation, 2009, “The Clock of the Long Now: Time and Responsibility” MGE)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Such debates indicate that … other, they made a separate peace.</span>



===1AC Version 2=== 
====Plan==== 
**Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects, including the placement of infrared sensors in a Venus-like orbit.**
====Asteroids==== 

**Contention one is asteroids**

**Status quo fails –**
**A) Current asteroid tracking has ignored many Near Earth Objects and could be reliant on false data. Asteroids still pose a large risk.**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Congress has established for NASA … : Humanity must be constantly vigilant.__

**And, B) NEOWISE makes your DAs non-unique, but is in hibernation now.**
**Associated Press 9/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“NASA identifies 90 percent of largest near-Earth asteroids” [[http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2011/09/nasa_identifies_90_percent_of.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> NASA researchers also downgraded … </span>__and is currently in hibernation.__

**C) NEOShield means deflection tech will exist, but it doesn’t go to space**
**Young 1/25** (Elizabeth, “What is NEOShield and what will it do” [[http://www.helium.com/items/2284212-what-is-neoshield-and-what-will-it-do]] MGE)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The National Aeronautic and … </span>__an actual impact threat arises.__

**5 events make it clear that there is a statistical certainty for an asteroid to impact Earth**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Over the past several decades, … the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">y might pose to humanity. </span>

**Extinction from ozone destruction**
**BBC News 1/23**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1/23/11, “EcoAlert: NEO Shield --Early Warning of the Potential Threat to Earth from a Comet or Monster Asteroid” [[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2012/01/ecoalert-neo-shield-early-warning-of-the-potential-threat-to-earth-from-a-monster-comet-or-asteroid.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__The consequences for human …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">K/T or Permian-type mass extinction. </span>


**And from a crater**
**Grego 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, Director of Lunar Section Director of Britain's Society for Popular Astronomy (then called the Junior Astronomical Society), editor of both the SPA News Circulars and Popular Astronomy, 1998, Blanford, “Collision Earth!” MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As they are so large … mass extinctions of animal life. </span>

**A reduction of the risk of extinction by 1 millionth of 1 percent is would save ten billion lives and existential risks always outweigh**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become … </span>__century fail to register__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (figure 3).</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Figure 3: World population over the last century. Calamities such as the Spanish flu pandemic, the two world wars, and the Holocaust scarcely register. (If one stares hard at the graph, one can perhaps just barely make out a slight temporary reduction in the rate of growth of the world population during these events.)</span>
__But even this reflection fails …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">people think. </span>__Compare three outcomes:__
__(1) Peace.__
__(2) A nuclear war that kills 99% of the world’s existing population.__
__(3) A nuclear war that kills 100%.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2) would be worse than (1), … is only a fraction of a second. (10: 453-454)</span>
__To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical.__
__One gets a large number even …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">benefit of such an action.[13] </span>
====Existential Risk==== 
**Contention two is existential risk**

**A 1 percent solvency deficit to any counterplan outweighs**
**Barbee 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, 4/1/9, Air Power, “Planetary Defense Near-Earth Object Deflection Strategies” [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]] MGE)</span>
__It is generally accepted … process for defense against NEOs.__


**Our impact framework doesn’t cause paralysis**
**Bostrom 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These considerations suggest that </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">tempting, that implication is implausible.</span>

**Intervening actors don’t solve**
**Schweickart and Garretson 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Russell L., and Peter, Winter 2008, Ad Astra, NSS, “The Threat of Impact” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume20/AdAstra2008ThreatOfImpact.pdf MGE) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is now past the … the nerve to take it on? </span>

**Time must be viewed in thousands of years in order to protect civilization as a whole**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit L., Adjunct Professor of Physics at University of Memphis, 1996, “Impact! The Threat of Comets & Asteroids” MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So here we are, basking … question is worth thinking about. </span>
====Solvency==== 

**Contention three is solvency**

**Venus-like orbit solves, ground based survey doesn’t, deflection tech exists and is an effect of the plan, and your turns case args don’t apply**
<span class="Underline">**Arentz et al 10 – Aerospace****& Technologies Corp.**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. Space, 2010, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” [[http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This conference is apparently … a good system model to grasp.</span>

**NASA is key to do the plan**
**A) Deflection, crisis mitigation, and international organization**
**Hsu 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeremy, 10/22/10, MSNBC “White House adviser voices asteroid worries” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/ MGE) </span>
__National emergency plans for natural …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Committee on Science and Technology.</span>
__Holdren states that NASA must continue leading efforts to close the gap in detecting and perhaps deflecting near-Earth objects (NEO).____The U.S. space agency already has the duty of alerting the rest of the government about any threatening space objects.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holdren's letter also laid out </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Institute in Boulder, Colo.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Going on alert </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Holdren's letter, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, under the Department of Homeland Security, has the main responsibility on the ground in the U.S. FEMA can rely in part upon the National Warning System, which was designed to alert U.S. citizens to a Cold War nuclear attack.</span>
__The Department of Defense would work with NASA on possible mitigation or deflection scenarios that involved military resources.__
__Meanwhile, the Department of State … is considered low__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Holdren said.</span>

**B) <span class="Underline">Four observatories</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Morris 7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jefferson, Reporter, 11/9/7, “Expand Asteroid Search, NASA says” [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=space&id=news/killer110907.xml&headline=Expand%20Asteroid%20Search,%20NASA%20says]] MGE)</span>
Key to the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> current </span>cataloguing … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and $37 million annually to operate. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C)</span> **Status quo Surveys**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">National Academies 2009 (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Committee to Review … </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">objects than ground-based telescopes</span>**__.__**

====No DAs==== 
**Contention four is no disads**

**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction –**
**A) 90 percent of the population would survive**
**Martin 82**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Department of Mathematics Faculty of Science Australian National University, 1982, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300, “Critique of Nuclear Extinction” [[http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/82jpr.html]] MGE)</span>
__The available evidence suggests … a lesser extent China and Japan.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Direct effects</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most of the deaths and … civil defence measures were used.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indirect effects</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(a) Global fallout. </span>__The main …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on earth, is highly misleading.[14]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the absence of any positive evidence, statements that nuclear war will lead to the death of all or most people on earth should be considered exaggerations. In most cases the exaggeration is unintended, since people holding or stating a belief in nuclear extinction are quite sincere.[15]</span>
__Another major point to be …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">this possibility does not exist.</span>

**B) No nuclear winter fallout**
**Nyquist 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, 5/20/99, Worldnetdaily.com, MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these … </span>__few (if any) fallout casualties__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**C) Not enough weapons**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ball 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, [[http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf]] MGE)</span>
The<span class="Underline">leading </span>populariserof<span class="Underline"> the ‘</span>… <span class="Underline">them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties). </span>

**No warming**
**A) Tech solves your internal link**
**Logan and Oltzman 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J., Schultz, M. and S., EOS, 2010, Transactions, American Geophysical Union, “Observing and understanding tropospheric ozone changes” [[http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2010/jun/25jun2010a5.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Logan et al. (2010) describe and discuss what was revealed at a "Tropospheric Ozone Changes Workshop" held in Boulder, Colorado (USA) on 14-16 October 2009, where they say that "long-term ozone records from regionally representative surface and mountain sites, ozonesondes, and aircraft were reviewed by region."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the authors, "in … greening of the earth phenomenon. </span>

**B)****No warming – even if there is, no impact**
**LEHR****2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jay, Science Director of the Heartland Institute, 1-12-2005, Yearbook of Experts)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">EVIDENCE THAT THE TEMPERATURE OF … </span>__real science did not support it.__

**No great power wars – we don’t endorse abelist language**
**Goldstein and Pinker 12/18/11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua S., Professor Emeritus at University of Maryland and Research Scholar, Dept. of Political Science, University of Massachusetts, and Steven, Harvard College Professor and Johnstone Family Professor in the Department of Psychology at Harvard University, “ War Really Is Going Out of Style”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/18/opinion/sunday/war-really-is-going-out-of-style.html]], agf)</span>

The theory that war is … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a</span>war at<span style="font-size: 8pt;">an</span>acceptablecost.


**No war – structural barriers – we do not endorse abelist language**
**Duedney and Ikenberry 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and G. John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, January 2009, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail” [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This bleak outlook is based … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">of international integration and cooperation.</span>


**We solve comets too**
**Clavin 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Whitney, media officer for NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab 1/25/10, NASA, “NASA's WISE Eye Spies Near-Earth Asteroid” [[http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/news/features.cfm?feature=2459]] MGE)</span>
__By__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> observing </span>__infrared__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> light, </span>__WISE____… can__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> expect potentially devastating </span>__impacts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

=== === 
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Topicality__</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__T - Human 1NC__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Exploration requires staffed missions**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Many believe that the only … of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**So does space development**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Eric Westling is a____science writer__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, … </span>**__manned__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">commercial</span> **__projects in space__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">T - Human 2NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Most predictable interp – legal regime in place**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**NASA 2011**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (National Aeronautics and Space Administration, April 27, report in response to direction in Section 301b of the NASA authorization act of 2010 “Commercial Market Assessment for Crew and Cargo.” Systems.”http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/images/stories/Commercial_Market_Assessment_Report_Final.pdf) CMR</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Not only is the regulatory regime …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and ultimately market size.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Space col is a sweet aff**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Villaneuva 2010**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – (universe today, [[http://www.universetoday.com/61085/space-colonization/]]) CMR</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Although </span>__Earth__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">is abundant with</span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nearest star from our Sun.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Great advantages in our topic**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Anderson 9/6**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- freelance writer who owns and operates “The Way Out” blog (Greg, the space review, “A rationale for human spaceflight.” [[http://thespacereview.com/article/1920/1]]) CMR</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The next logical step for</span> __… **need to fly in space.**__</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AND, the affs they allow are bad – covert satellites encourage poor debates**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Day 9/12**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">/2011 (Dwayne A., served as an investigator for the Columbia Accident Investigation Board, works for the Space Studies Board of the National Research Council/National Academy of Sciences, served as a study director on studies concerning NASA's planetary exploration program, The Space Review, "Flashlights in the dark,"</span><span style="color: #0000cc; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1927/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Later this week the National Reconnaissance Office is going to ... they are started, if not longer.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AND, our topic is best – the current controversy**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Anderson 9/6**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- freelance writer who owns and operates “The Way Out” blog (Greg, the space review, “A rationale for human spaceflight.” [[http://thespacereview.com/article/1920/1]]) CMR</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>__retirement of the space …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">are all over the place.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Humans are core of the topic – here’s a caselist**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Vernikos 2008** -- member of the Space Studies Board of the National Academy and former director of NASA’s Life Sciences Division (Joan 1/1 2008, “Is Space Exploration Worth the Cost? A Freakonomics Quorum.” A quorum on Freakonomics blog, run by Steven J. Dubner, “http://www.freakonomics.com/2008/01/11/is-space-exploration-worth-the-cost-a-freakonomics-quorum/) CMR</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Without risking human lives, </span>__robotic …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">alternative habitats for humanity’s survival.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Steven hawking thinks humans should explore because of all the advantages, also this is the CENTRAL QUESTION OF THE TOPIC**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kazan and Sato****9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Casey and Rebecca, The Daily Galaxy, "Stephen Hawking: Manned vs Robotic Space Missions?" </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2009/06/robotic-missions-are-much-cheaper-and-may-provide-more-scientific--information-but-they-dont-catch-the-public-imagination-in.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"</span>__Robotic missions are__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> much </span>__cheaper__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and ... the </span>__question of man vs. unmanned robotic missions__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**And other experts agree with him.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kazan and Sato 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Casey and Rebecca, The Daily Galaxy, "Stephen Hawking: Manned vs Robotic Space Missions?" </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2009/06/robotic-missions-are-much-cheaper-and-may-provide-more-scientific--information-but-they-dont-catch-the-public-imagination-in.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Hawking favors____human__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> space </span>__exploration__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, rather than just sending robots to explore space, a </span>__position taken by____Nobel laureate__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Steven </span>__Weinberg, among others.__</span>





<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Precision DA**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wright****2006**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- Overseeing the revival of Teachers in Space as a non-profit program of the Space Frontier Foundation. Principal Investigator on NASA K-12 Cooperative Agreement Notice to create professional-development workshops for STEM teachers focusing on suborbital science, flight simulation, space medicine and human factors. Manage fund-raising and acquired suborbital spaceflight services from commercial providers. Served on first Pathfinder astronaut selection committee. Developed and implemented astronaut training plans. Managed two major government proposals totaling over $1.5 million. Coordinated with NASA, university, and industry partners. Managed press- and public-relations campaigns. Conducted press conferences at Holloman AFB, NASA Ames Research Center, and the United States Senate; appeared on national television; and addressed major educational conferences. Co-authored draft legislation related to Teachers in Space. Developed legislative strategy and led lobbying efforts on Capitol Hill. Interfaced with the FAA Office of Commercial Space Transportation. Overseeing development of iPhone-based data acquisition software for suborbital flight experiments and development/acquisition of flight-simulator hardware and software. (comment on Space Politics.com, http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/)</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Unmanned missions are not exploration, they are merely reconnaissance.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span><span class="Underline">dictionary defines exploration as “travel for purposes of discovery.” Sitting in a control room looking at pictures</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of Mars on a TV set </span><span class="Underline">is not exploration because it does not involve travel.</span>Calling unmanned space “exploration”and unmanned probes “spaceships” is just an attempt to co-opt the language.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**90 affs**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kazan and Sato 9** (Casey and Rebecca, The Daily Galaxy, "Stephen Hawking: Manned vs Robotic Space Missions?" <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2009/06/robotic-missions-are-much-cheaper-and-may-provide-more-scientific--information-but-they-dont-catch-the-public-imagination-in.html]]</span>)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__NASA__ currently __operates more than 50 robotic spacecraft__ … their own robotic craft.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**And 9 different __classifications__ of probes.**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**ThinkQuest 10** (date last modified, "Space Travel Guide," <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://library.thinkquest.org/03oct/02144/text/mars/probes.htm]]</span>)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Classification of Probes</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Probes can be classified on many grounds.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Depending on its area of operation … of the planet. (as explained earlier in penetrator space crafts).</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Limits outweigh and turn every other standard – key to participation**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rowland, 84****<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__The first major problem identified ....__** **__has led some small schools to cancel their programs.__**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Limits double our education**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Arrington ‘9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Rebecca, UVA Today, “Study Finds That Students Benefit From Depth, Rather Than Breadth, in High School Science Courses” March 4)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__A recent study reports that high school students ...__ __courses that touched on every major topic.__</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Counterplans__</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__XO CP__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Text: The President of the United States should create an executive order to [insert plan].**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Competes –**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**a) “The” means all parts**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merriam-Webster's 9</span>([[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/the|… ]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">4 -- used<span class="UnderlineChar"> as a function word </span>… **a group as a whole** <the elite></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**b) resolved – requires legislative action**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lousiana House of Representatives 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (… . III, §17(B) and House  Rules 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Prefer the interpretation – key to exclude courts affs, process-DAs, and aff ground – otherwise legislative action would be extra topical and no plan could function.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**That means perm do the CP severs – voting issue, creates a moving target shifts the focus of the debate to the plan. Reject the team for them introducing the perm.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**2AC clarifications are a voting issue – make it impossible for us to read cps and prevent early argument development.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**XO solves and doesn’t link to politics**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Public Administration at Portland State (Phillip, 2002, “By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action”)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: yellow;">Executive orders are</span><span class="underline0"> often used … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">provides for orders generated elsewhere.</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Japan CP__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CP TEXT: Japan should develop [plan]**</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**JAXA can research and explore space successfully—past missions prove**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Polak and Belmondo 6--** published several books on 19th-century Franco-Japanese relations, graduated from the Department of Japanese studies at INALCO, Paris, in 1971. The same year, he entered Waseda University's Institute of Language and Education as a foreign exchange student.[1] In 1973, he entered the Law Department at Hitotsubashi University,[4] and in 1980 completed his doctorate in law, writing his doctoral thesis on diplomatic relations between France and Japan from 1914 to 1925, (Christian and Sylvain, June, Société d’Etudes et de Recherches Industrielles et commerciales “Japan R&D Policies and Programs in the Aeronautic and Space Sectors”, [[http://www.deljpn.ec.europa.eu/data/current/Polak_RDPoliciesProgrammesAeronauticSectors.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">4.2 Space Exploration __Japan has … integration of payloads into a module.__</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Kritiks__</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__New Cap K__</span>=== 
**The affirmative’s appeals to national security are really appeals to defend US wealth—threats are constructed by the ruling class to justify conservative action—this locks the proletariat in poverty and prevents emancipation, also is a reason they’re liars**
Mark __Neocleous, 08,__ “Critique of Security”, Brunel University in the Department of Government
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We are often and rightly … twentieth century accounts of emergency. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Structural violence outweighs nuclear war.</span>
<span class="CiteChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Abu-Jamal 98</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span>

<span class="Heading3Char1">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We live</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, equally immersed, and … </span><span class="Heading3Char1" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">every decade, throughout the world</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

**In addition, the plan represents an extension of the search for surplus that dominates capitalism**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parker, 9. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin (University of Leicester School of Management), The Sociological Review Volume 57</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This chapter explores a paradox.1 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">I want … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, of value, were fading away.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘Where the fulfilment of the calling cannot be directly related to the highest spiritual and cultural values, or when, on the other hand, it need not be felt simply as economic compulsion, the individual generally abandons the attempt to justify it at all. In the field of its highest development, in the United States, the pursuit of wealth, stripped of its religious and ethical meaning, tends to become associated with purely mundane passions, which often actually give it the character of sport.’ (Weber, 1930: 182)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">So the means become the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">that enterprise can be launched.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Capitalism is based around oil consumption—causes nuclear resource wars and global warming—and peak oil makes collapse inevitable.</span>
<span class="CiteChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forster 8 </span>__</span>(John Bellamy, Professor at the University of Oregon, Department of Sociology, Peak //Oil and Energy Imperialism//, Monthly Review, [[http://www.monthlyreview.org/080707foster.php]])

<span class="Heading3Char1">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The tightening oil situation has… </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">a system geared to growing inequality.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Alternative Text: Reject the affirmative’s capitalist relations. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hollowing out capitalism solves – also avoids transition wars.</span>
<span class="CiteChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Herod 2004</span>__</span>—James, Faculty at the University of Massachusetts at Boston, [[http://www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/index.htm]]


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is time to try … shape of their social world.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__1 Off Cap K__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The first, and only off, is the cap k.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Part one: the status quo**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The political winds in America are changing. A revolution is emerging. Reject this revolution at your peril.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Farrell 10/4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – marketwatch, the burning platform (“A new Lost Decade is leading to revolution.” [[http://www.theburningplatform.com/?p=22549]]) CMR </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, the new one gets … , </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> … rocket accelerating a new American Revolution.</span>__


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__Plan upends that this positive movement__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**a) Space itself. Space is the final market toward which we project our desires to constantly colonize and find more more more resources.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parker, 9. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin (University of Leicester School of Management), The Sociological Review Volume 57</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This chapter explores a paradox.1 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">I want … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, of value, were fading away.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">‘Where the fulfilment of the calling cannot be directly related to the highest spiritual and cultural values, or when, on the other hand, it need not be felt simply as economic compulsion, the individual generally abandons the attempt to justify it at all. In the field of its highest development, in the United States, the pursuit of wealth, stripped of its religious and ethical meaning, tends to become associated with purely mundane passions, which often actually give it the character of sport.’ (Weber, 1930: 182)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">So the means become the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">that enterprise can be launched.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**b) Liberalism – guarantees extinction and reifies west is best mindset**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Santos 2003**-April, Boaventura, professor at the University of Coimbra, Collective Suicide?, Bad Subjects #63</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Franz Hinkelammert, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the … </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">a machine of horror and destruction.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**c) “The Doover.” You’re a band-aid solution – yes we’ve screwed up****– but the mentality of colonization papers over the problem and guarantees extinction on the planet you attempt to colonize**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lin, 6. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Patrick (Assistant Professor at Ca-Poly & affiliate scholar at Stanford Law School's Center for Internet and Society//jh), Viewpoint: Look Before Taking Another Leap For Mankind – Ethical and Social Considerations in Rebuilding Society in Space, Digital Commons [[http://digitalcommons.calpoly.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1008&context=phil_fac]] **don’t endorse gendered language**// </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If not for adventure or … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">we address those root issues</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span class="Underline">**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s capitalist relations.** </span>//</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//**Hollowing out capitalism solves – also avoids transition wars**//</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//**Herod 2004**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—James, Faculty at the University of Massachusetts at Boston, [[http://www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/index.htm]] </span>//</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//__It is time to try … shape of their social world.__//</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//**Ethical obligation to resist this heinous form of oppression. The foundation of ethics lies in our hearts – and capitalism works SOLELY to cripple the ethical response. WE SHALL NOT COMPROMISE UNTIL THERE IS FREEDOM.**//</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//**Morgareidge 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Associate Professor of Philosophy at Lewis and Clark College</span>//</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Clayton, “Why Capitalism is Evil”, Radio Active Philosophy, Lewis and Clark Educational Papers, http://legacy.lclark.edu/~clayton/commentaries/evil.html)</span>//AW</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Well, what is the foundation … </span>__have a seat at the table.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**And, the perm fails – urgent actions to sustain the system can’t create useful political movements**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zizek, 8.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Slavoj, //Violence,// pp. 6-8//jh</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Let’s think … learn” what causes this violence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Objectivity K__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Next off is the objectivity kritik**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Uniqueness – revolution’s coming**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Farrell 10/4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – marketwatch, the burning platform (“A new Lost Decade is leading to revolution.” [[http://www.theburningplatform.com/?p=22549]]) CMR </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, the new one gets … </span>__rocket accelerating a new American Revolution.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The focus on the rimacy of discourse ruptures this. Post-structuralist criticism makes lack of objectivity natural – but there are objective truths, like the oppression of workers globally – and you prevent real, radical change from occurring in addition to reifying capitalism.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mas'ud </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zavarzadeh</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Department of English, … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">__more tolerable, justifiable, and naturalized.__</span></span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**And, the particular – shouldn’t try to eliminate** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rene Francisco <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Poitevin</span>, Doctoral Candidate … <span class="UnderlineChar">going to do it either.</span></span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Impacts – Capitalism causes war, oppression**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Underline">**Brown, 5.** </span>Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan<span class="Underline"> (Charles Brown, [[http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm]]) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Underline">The </span>capitalist class owns<span class="Underline"> the </span>… <span style="font-size: 7pt;">fact of life in the U.S.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AND, denial of object facts makes all violence possible.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sherry 96</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Suzanna, Professor of Civil … speaking such a truth to power. 145</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Alternative: reject the affirmative in favor of a Marxist analysis of space exploration and development. This round should be an educational exercise—that empowers us to recognize inequality and take action rather than just changing the way we think.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cole 3</span>(Mike, Senior Lecturer and … /cubasigloXXI/congreso/cole_05abr03.pdf) cp</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Atkinson's main argument seems to be that the strength of postmodernism .... I don't think they are interested in either, and hence can't have a political strategy for human betterment (cited in Cole, 2001, p. 77).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Environment K__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Apocalyptic framing of environmental collapse destroys human motivation to solve warming – turns the aff.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Foust et al. 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christina R. Foust, Assistant Professor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, et al., with William O. Murphy, Doctoral Student and Graduate Teaching Instructor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, and Chelsea Stow, Doctoral Student and Graduate Teaching Instructor in the Department of Human Communication Studies at the University of Denver, 2008, Paper Submitted to the Environmental Communication Division of the National Communication Association Convention in San Diego, November 20th, “Global Warming and Apocalyptic Rhetoric: A Critical Frame Analysis of US Popular and Elite Press Coverage from 1997-2007,” [[http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/2/6/0/1/2/pages260125/p260125-26.php|http://citation.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/2/6/0/1/2/pages260125/p260125-26.php]] MGE)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elements of an apocalyptic frame … </span>__impacts of global climate change.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Causes intervention and war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Benjamin 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, independent foreign policy analyst based in Washington, D.C., holds a master’s degree in international relations from Central European University in Budapest, 4/20/00, Policy Analysis, “Green Wars Making Environmental Degradation a National Security Issue Puts Peace and Security at Risk” MGE)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although the invocation of national … protector of the global environment.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The affirmative’s representations of environmental catastrophe encourage knee-jerk responses which fail to address the root causes of resource exploitation.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__Our alternative is to endorse the affirmative sans their ecological horror story discourse.__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Doremus 2K** (Holly, Professor of Law, University of California at Davis, J.D., University of California at Berkeley, Ph.D., Cornell University, Winter, The Rhetoric and Reality of Nature Protection: Toward a New Discourse, 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Part II details the three principal …ofmodem Americans in nature.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Taoism K__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The aff acts out of a fear of extinction, ignoring the fact that action disrupts the natural flow of the Dao. The alternative is an embrace of Taoist inaction – that makes true disaster impossible**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kirkland 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – phd east Asian languages, associate prof of religion, UGA (“"RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION" IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING.” [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]]) CMR **We don’t endorse gendered language** </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This example came to my mind when I began to ponder …or more correctly said, //especially not// — ourselves.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Tao guides the way of life – SQ is perfect unless humans tamper with it</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kirkland 98 **– phd east Asian languages, associate prof of religion, UGA (“"RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION" IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING.” [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]]) CMR** We don’t endorse gendered language</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we </span>__leave aside__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such self-serving </span>__emotional baggage__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, …</span>__trustworthy tendencies of Heaven-and-Earth.__</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Science K__</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aiming science at particularist ends destroys public confidence in science and dooms science’s radical potential</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jasanoff 2003 -- Pforzheimer Professor of Science and Technology Studies at the Harvard Kennedy School (Sheila, “The 'Science Wars' and American Politics.” in. Dierkens and C. Von Grote (eds) Between Understanding and Trust: The Public, Science and Technology, reprinted 2003, pp. 39–61. London: Routledge. Google Books) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of the ironies of American … one of the markers of "reflexive modernity."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically, science solves extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Coyne, 06 – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Supernatural forces and events, essential </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">…</span> in America becomes ever more harried and debased by politics and religion, we desperately need to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative: reject the affirmative in favor of an endorsement of science for the sake of science. Any attempt to guide research is an attempt to deflect research – our links are DAs to the perm – and the alt alone solves the aff quicker</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Polyani 1962 – <span class="st">eminent physical chemist, economist, and philosopher (Michael, “</span>The Republic of Science: Its Political and Economic Theory.” //Minerva// Volume 1: 1962 54-74 [[http://www.sts-biu.org/images/file/Michael%20Polanyi,%20Republic%20of%20Science.pdf]]) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//Social Guidance// During the last … will be incidental and hence doubly unpredictable.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff’s doomsdayism is an attempt for the scientific community to make noise to get funds – the alt alone would be much more credible in coming to actual solutions.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weingart 99 – Institut für Wissenschafts- und Technikforschung, Universitat Bielefeld (Peter, “Scientific expertise and political accountability: paradoxes of science in politics.” Science and Public Policy, volume 26, number 3, June 1999, pages 151–161, Beech Tree Publishing, 10 Watford Close, Guildford, Surrey GU1 2EP, England. Swetwise database) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The inflationary use of scientific authority … difficulty will no longer be a choice between different institutions such as science and religion: it will affect science ‘proper’.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Role of the debate space – the debate should be a referendum on science’s place in society</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jasanoff 2003 -- Pforzheimer Professor of Science and Technology Studies at the Harvard Kennedy School (Sheila, “The 'Science Wars' and American Politics.” in. Dierkens and C. Von Grote (eds) Between Understanding and Trust: The Public, Science and Technology, reprinted 2003, pp. 39–61. London: Routledge. Google Books) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A politically grounded analysis of the public understanding of science inexo­rably shifts attention from the bureaucratic challenge of how to monitor and regulate that understanding to … the public understanding of science offer a unique vantage point for understanding science's place in modern society.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;"> 2NC Framework </span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Any debate requires resolution on the nature of scientific epistemology FIRST – basic sequencing arg – need to have an agreement on terms of the debate before you can procede with the debate**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Palpant 2007** – <span style="color: #000000;">University of Michigan Medical School and the Ford School of Public Policy </span>(published for a 2007 conference, “The Praxis of Scientific Epistemology.” [[http://www.cspo.org/igscdocs/Nathan%20Palpant.pdf]]) CMR</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Having already covered the broad … than divergent values or assessments (2000: 139).</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">2NC Link </span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**b) Big science like NASA is the link – scientists are no longer revolutionaries but workers on the payroll of the state**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sjoberg 2001**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – university of oslo, (Svein, “Science and Technology in Education – Current Challenges and Possible Solutions.” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.iuma.ulpgc.es/%7Enunez/sjobergreportsciencetech.pdf|http://www.iuma.ulpgc.es/~nunez/sjobergreportsciencetech.pdf]]</span>) CMR </span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">10. </span>The new image:Big … – and also pupils in schools<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Heg is the link**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jasanoff 2003**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- Pforzheimer Professor of Science and Technology Studies at the Harvard Kennedy School (Sheila, “The 'Science Wars' and American Politics.” in. Dierkens and C. Von Grote (eds) Between Understanding and Trust: The Public, Science and Technology, reprinted 2003, pp. 39–61. London: Routledge. Google Books) CMR</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">The threats to science and … future commitments should ideally lead it.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**So is the development advantage**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ziman 2003** – emeritus Professor (University of Bristol), (john, Science and Engineering Ethics, Volume 9, Issue 1, 2003, springer, “Non-instrumental roles of science.” ) CMR</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nowadays, </span>science is treated as … **economic competitiveness of the nation.**</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">2NC Alt </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Here is comparative evidence – science serving the national interest fails – better to have radical science for science’s sake – any government corrupts it**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Polyani 1962** – <span class="st">eminent physical chemist, economist, and philosopher (Michael, “</span>The Republic of Science: Its Political and Economic Theory.” //Minerva// Volume 1: 1962 54-74 [[http://www.sts-biu.org/images/file/Michael%20Polanyi,%20Republic%20of%20Science.pdf]]) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Extrarterritoriality of Academic Science </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We … </span>**its rule by scientific opinion.**</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**2NC Perm**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Instrumental and noninstrumental science CANNOT be undertaken simultaneously – but doing the plan noninstrumentally would solve the residual links**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ziman 2003**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – emeritus Professor (University of Bristol), (john, Science and Engineering Ethics, Volume 9, Issue 1, 2003, springer, “Non-instrumental roles of science.” ) CMR</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**What we find, however, is …** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">this is often a pious scam.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The perm INSTITUTIONALIZES science and politics together**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Weingart 99** – Institut für Wissenschafts- und Technikforschung, Universitat Bielefeld (Peter, “Scientific expertise and political accountability: paradoxes of science in politics.” Science and Public Policy, volume 26, number 3, June 1999, pages 151–161, Beech Tree Publishing, 10 Watford Close, Guildford, Surrey GU1 2EP, England. Swetwise database) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It has become fashionable to … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">this, another paradoxical development emerges.</span></span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**2NC Turns case**</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**And, we’re a prerequisite to applied science**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Feibleman 61** – Chairman of the Department of Philosophy at Tulane University, Mr. Feible-man is the author of some 22 books, including Revival of Realism: Critical Studies in Contemporary Philosophy. (James K., Johns Hopkins University Press, “Applied Science, Technology, Engineering: An Attempt at Definitions.” Technology and Culture, Vol. 2, No. 4 (Autumn, 1961), pp. 305-317, JSTOR) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Applied science puts to practical … </span>would be nothing to apply.</span>





==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__PTC DA__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**PRT will pass**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Salt Lake Tribune 12/8** (“Obama, GOP skirmish on payroll tax cut both favor.” [[http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/world/53077259-68/obama-tax-president-republicans.html.csp]]) cmr</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Separately, the __two parties__ __skirmished__ … **__was still time to bicker.__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**PC Key**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Philidelphia Inquirer 9/8** (“POINT: Don't expect miracles on job growth.” [[http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-tax]]) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>__Obama goes into__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thursday's … effort to privatize Social Security.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**PRT key to economy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ludwig 12/7** -- chief executive of the Promontory Financial Group, was the comptroller of the currency from 1993 to 1998. (Eugene, nyt op-ed, “Why the Fight Over the Payroll Tax Matters.” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/08/opinion/why-the-fight-over-the-payroll-tax-matters.html?_r=1]]) CMR</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE </span>__payroll tax cut__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> being … advanced industrialized countries have done. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The payroll tax for Social Security is 6.2 percent of wages (up to an annual maximum of $106,800). This year, the employee’s contribution was reduced to 4.2 percent, while the employer’s portion stayed at 6.2 percent. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">If Congress doesn’t reach an agreement, the two-percentage-point payroll-tax holiday for employees will expire on Dec. 31. That would have a disastrous effect on our economic recovery. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**War**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of … debate and deserves more attention. </span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Jackson-Vanik Ptx DA__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">JV repeal will pass – State Department, White House, and Congressional support</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Richard <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solash 12/15</span> (staff writer), “U.S. Officials Push Jackson-Vanik Repeal, Tiptoe Around Magnitsky Legislation,” Radio Free Europe. December 15, 2011. [[http://www.rferl.org/content/us_russia_jackson_vanik_magnitsky_wto_gordon_melia/24422300.html]] //AJO</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WASHINGTON -- <span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. State Department officials </span>have <span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>nose to spite our face."</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**[Insert link]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Key to relations**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jacqueline McLaren </span>**Miller 4/7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 senior associate at the EastWest Institute.The WTO and the Reset [[@http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The __Jackson-Vanik__ amendment to … would then hurt the U.S. economy.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Relations solve extinction**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cohen 6**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—prof, … " and threats of "a new Vietnam."</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__JWST Trade-off DA__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**James Webb Space Telescope funded but with no guantees—required sacrifice from the rest of the space community**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dattaro 11-23**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Laura Dattaro, 11-23”James Webb Space Telescope further funded by Congress” CityPaper.com http://citypaper.com/news/james-webb-space-telescope-further-funded-by-congress-1.1235927</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__The House and Senate__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">o</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n … </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">scrutiny is to be expected.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Most recent budget deal proves—funding James Webb comes at expense of other programs—specifically shuttles**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Vastag, 11-21**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bryan Vastag, November 21, 2011 WashPost “Nasa and NSF are spared from big budget cuts” (http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/nasa-and-national-science-foundation-are-spared-from-big-budget-cuts/2011/11/16/gIQAz7FwhN_story.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As Congress wrestles with reducing … operations, during House testimony Oct. 26.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Astronomy is a prerequisite to solving climate change**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Blandford, et. al, 10** – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 114-5]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Astronomy Addresses the Challenges of … </span>__to great interest in astronomy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Warming = extinction.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Tickell, 08</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Oliver Tickell, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction” Guardian, August 10, 2008 (http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">We need to get prepared … us towards a similar hothouse Earth.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Case Negatives__</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Millard South/Westside__ </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shoe PIC</span>__</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Counter advocacy: We affirm the entirety of the 1AC except for wearing shoes and socks while delivering the speech.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Contention 1 – competition – we do less than the 1AC – we don’t endorse shoes or socks**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AND, SHOE DA –**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**a. The aff endorses a culture of wearing shoes that prevents each individual from connecting with the charged electrons in the ground – our CP endorses “grounding” or “earthing.” The impact is just feeling icky – wearing shoes takes us from our natural state and prevents the affs internal electrical stability from allowing normal functioning of the body.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ober et al 2010**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – earthing promoter (… NOT ENDORSE ANY GENDERED LANGUAGE </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Earthing is simple, basic, and … </span>__self-regulate and self-heal__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**b. CP solves – Instead of wearing socks, we should go barefoot**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ober et al 2010** – earthing promoter (… NOT ENDORSE ANY GENDERED LANGUAGE</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For most people, reconnecting with … </span>__were missing … or needed__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__SSA__</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Sidecar CP__</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**TEXT:****The United States federal government should implement the sidecar software as advocated by our Butler evidence.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“**Sidecar” software helps us process information from existing sensors – solves the impact and distinct from ssa**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Amy **Butler 09,** “USAF Boosts Space Situational Awareness,” Aviation Week. Jul 3, 2009.[[@http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story.jsp?id=news/AWARE070309.xml&headline=USAF%20Boosts%20Space%20Situational%20Awareness&channel=defense]] //AJO</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the meantime, … those concepts,” says James.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weaponization DA</span>==== 
=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Weaponization not inevitable – Obama’s new NSP solves**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - </span>senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">As is well understood, the … may lurk in these details. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**SSA destroys that**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wiest 2007**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Maj, USAF, graduation requirement for AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLLEGE AIR UNIVERSITY (“UPON THIS ROCK… A FOUNDATIONAL SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS TECHNOLOGY FOR 2030.” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada515444.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) CMR </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The other </span>__political limitation is__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span>__may never make a single orbit.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**You don’t have an explicit cooperation mandate – existing framework is cooperative, you would break that**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Space.com 3/22/11** (“Space Debris Threat Needs International Response, Military Official Says.” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.space.com/11191-space-debris-international-response.html</span>) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Helms articulated the need for …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">other satellites or on-orbit debris.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Perception creates international arms races**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hoey, 6** - Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, writer for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, [Mathew, Space Review, “Military Space Systems: The Road Ahead” February 26, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Many people believe that </span>__a deployed …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">potential development could become a reality.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nuclear escalation likely**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Krepon 2004** -- Founding President of the Henry L. Stimson Center (Michael, “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space.” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf</span>) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To prevent adversaries from shooting … </span>__to attacks on nuclear forces.__</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Overview</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**And, turns heg – plan kills soft power in the short term**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Coffelt, 5**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Lt. Colonal; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OFUS SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. June 2005.)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__W____eaponizing space__ __also decreases ...__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the inevitable weaponization of space, there are clear advantages in assuming the follower role. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**That’s a bigger internal link to heg**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gallarotti, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Prof of Government, Wesleyan University (Guilio M., “Soft Power: what it is, why it’s important, and the conditions for its effective use.” Division II Faculty Publications, Wesleyan University. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://wesscholar.wesleyan.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1056&context=div2facpubs&sei-redir=1#search=%22Soft%20power%3A%20what%20is%2C%20why%20its%20important%2C%20conditions%20its%20effective%20use%22</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While Realists have traditionally looked at a__...__ </span>__defines what issues will be raised, and in doing so therefore sets the bargaining boundaries__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 13</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Accidents risk extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__A buildup of space weapons might begin with ...__ __An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Arms race turns china**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Zhang 2006** -- research associate at the Project on Managing the Atom of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government (Hui, “Space Weaponization And Space Security: A Chinese Perspective.” China Security, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.wsichina.org/space/focus.cfm?focusid=94&charid=1</span>) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In particular, </span>__China is concerned__ ... <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">would lead to an arms race in space. </span></span>



=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Links</span>===== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**International reactions**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stone 2009** – * (B.A. University of Missouri) is a space strategy planner for the USAF, a former staff member for two US Senators, and Executive Director of a growing Chamber of Commerce. (Christopher, the space review, “How should we secure our space-based assets as a nation?.” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1345/1</span>) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">At the same, US satellites, … is simply not the case.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Leads to deployment of space weapons**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #1a1718;">Nardon 7 (</span>**<span style="color: #1a1718;">Laurence,</span> Senior research fellow, in charge of the United States Program and the Space Policy Program, “<span style="color: #1a1718;">Space Situational Awareness and International Policy” October 2007)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">The different actors on the U.S. … </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">target all existing satellites systems.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**ESA projects prove**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Slijper 2009** – senior researcher at the Dutch campaign against the arms trade, the transnational institute (Frank, “The EU should freeze its military ambitions in space<span style="color: #000000;">☆</span>.” Science direct) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A </span>__third space project with …__ //<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space Review</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> columnist Taylor Dinerman </span><span style="color: #000000;">[16]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Navigation aspect is worrisome – perception**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Collard-Wexler et al 2006** – International Security Research and Outreach Programme, Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Canada (“Space security 2006.” July, Spacesecurity.org production, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.spacesecurity.org/SSI2006.pdf</span>) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The expansion of multilateral global … </span>__generate distrust among space powers__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.138</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**They are a weapon**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stone 2009**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – * (B.A. University of Missouri) is a space strategy planner for the USAF, a former staff member for two US Senators, and Executive Director of a growing Chamber of Commerce. (Christopher, the space review, “How should we secure our space-based assets as a nation?.” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1345/1</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) CMR</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What about </span>__space situational awareness …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">order to strike other satellites.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Military nanotech creates nanotech arms races and nanoprolif**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Altmann 2008**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Experimentelle Physik III, Universita¨t Dortmund, Germany, (“Uses (Military, ) of Nanotechnology— Too Much Complexity for International Security?.” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/journal/10.1002/%28ISSN%291099-0526|Complexity]][[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1002/cplx.v14:1/issuetoc|Volume 14, Issue 1]]</span>, wiley) CMR</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Hyperbole about nanoweapons can have …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">stages of research and development</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Here’s the critical distinction – info SHARING is popular – plan just gets INFO**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Huntley 2011** (Ph.D., is senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. The views expressed in this paper are the author’s alone and do not represent policies or positions of the U.S. Navy or the U.S. government. “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress.” <span style="color: #000000;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span>) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">• The </span>__Department of Defense__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … significant in its own right.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Datasharing isn’t credible**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 2010** – SWF Research Assistant (Tiffany, “”SSA Sharing Program SWF Issue Brief.” <span style="color: #000000;">http://swfound.org/media/6572/swf%20issue%20brief%20-%20ssa%20sharing%20program%20with%20execsum%20-%20final.pdf</span>) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In addition to these issues … </span>__through__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the</span> __SSA__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Sharing Program.</span></span>







=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AT: SSA in SQ</span>===== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SSA isn’t being implemented now and was only accepted in the context of the NSP as a whole</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Smith 2011 (6/17, Space Policy Online, “Impact of the Obama Space Policy One Year On -- Experts Say It’s All in the Implementation.” http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1639:impact-of-the-obama-space-policy-one-year-on-experts-say-its-all-in-the-implementation-&catid=91:news&Itemid=84) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The upshot of the Secure World Foundation's (SWF's) panel ... Frank Rose who have taken the NSP around the world to explain and engage in dialog about it with other nations.</span>



=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AT: Thumpers</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**It was covert, and they sent 2 planes**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**American Free press 9/2** (“GLOBALISTS, LITTLE GREEN MEN FROM MARS AND THE POSSIBILITY OF AN EXTRATERRESTRIAL ATTACK.” [[http://americanfreepress.net/?p=345]]) CMR</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For over a year, </span>__covert launchings of__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ... some prominent Russians adamantly disagree.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Won’t be perceieved and CAN’T BE A WEAPON.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Grego and Wright, 10** – (6/1/10, Laura, PhD, senior scientist in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, David, senior scientist and co-director of the UCS Global Security Program, “Space Plane: Technology In Search of a Mission? (Part 1)”[[@http://allthingsnuclear.org/post/653648499/space-plane-technology-in-search-of-a-mission-part|__http://allthingsnuclear.org/post/653648499/space-plane-technology-in-search-of-a-mission-part__]] )</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In particular, compared to ... __its strike capability__.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Not a weapon – all rumors.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wall 11** – (3/4/11, Mike, senior writer, [[@http://space.com/|__space.com__]], “Air Force's 2nd Secret X-37B Space Plane Likely Testing Spy Satellite Tech,”[[@http://www.space.com/11025-x37b-space-plane-air-force-secret-mission.html|__http://www.space.com/11025-x37b-space-plane-air-force-secret-mission.html__]] )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="color: #000000;">The secrecy shrouding the X-37B ... </span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> as a technical advisor for the non-profit Secure World Foundation.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Opposition to the X-37B is only because it was a secret program that raised suspicion – a commitment to greater transparency solves</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Axe, 10** (David, Wired, “Secret U.S. Space Plane May Be //Too// Mysterious,” 11/18, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/11/secret-spaceplane-eludes-observers-spooks-governments/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The X-37’s flexibility — “dual-use” is the ... essential to national security,” Weeden said. “__It can be done__, but it takes a fine balance.”</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Environmental Monitoring__</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__EU CP__</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CP Text: The European Space Agency should substantially increase environmental monitoring.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**GMES is the best system in the world and will encourage environmental leadership**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**De Selding 9/9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, September 9, 2011, Space News, “European Commission Urged To Put GMES Back in Budget” [[http://www.spacenews.com/earth_observation/110909-ec-petitioned-reinstate.html]] MGE)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Forty-four members of … and within the costs foreseen.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Cyborgs__</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Vagueness__</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Vagueness – tons of varying definitions of the cyborg – your author**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Launius, 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger D., PhD LSU—Senior Curator in Division of Space History @ The Smithsonian Institution’s National Air and Space Museum, previously Chief Historian of the National Aeronautics and Space Agency,</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Endeavour</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Vol. 34, Issue 3, September 2010, “Can we Colonize the Solar System? Human Biology and Survival in the Extreme Space Environment”) CMR</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Life scientists such as Clynes … process of becoming cybernetic organisms.[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/science/article/pii/S0160932710000451#ref_fn0100|20]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Vote neg –**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**a. Moving target – you spike out of DAs to the cyborg – makes it impossible to negate**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**b. fairness – we should get to know what you do – key to neg strat creation**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Vagueness means you don’t solve – vote neg on presumption – cyborg specific**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baard 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Inside the Movement for Posthuman Rights. Cyborg Liberation Front.” The Village Voice: Features: Cyborg Liberation Front by Erik Baard) CMR</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">One operative of the Institute … </span>__the primacy of "human rights."__</span>
====Cyborgs DA==== 
=====1NC===== 
Cyborgs become evil and reaffirm species-ist distinctions – turns case and causes extermination
Warwick 2003 – Department of Cybernetics, University of Reading, Whiteknights, Reading RG6 6AY, UK (“Cyborg morals, cyborg values, cyborg ethics.” Ethics and Information Technology 5: 131–137, 2003) CMR

Where the cyborgs represent a powerful ethical dilemma is in the case when an individual’s consciousness is modified by the merging of human and machine. … its course and disappear, simply because that individual does not like the thought of missiles or does not exhibit the intelligence to comprehend them.

And, democracy– you kill it – cyborgs would enact an autocracy
Bendle 2002 – (MERVYN F. “Teleportation, Cyborgs and the Posthuman Ideology.” Social Semiotics, Vol. 12, No. 1, 2002) CMR *italics in original

Warwick gives expression to … would or could resist the dictates of such machines in a world where super-intelligence reigns as the supreme value?

Democracy solves oppression
Shaw, 1, professorial fellow in IR at Roehampton university, london Martin (professorial fellow in international relations and human rights at Roehampton University, London, honorary research professor of international relations at the University of Sussex//jh), “The unfinished global revolution: intellectuals and the new politics of international relations” in Review of International Studies, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalism.org/library/science/ir/shaw/shaw-ris-2001-27-04.pdf]]</span>
The new politics of international… . The practical challenge for all concerned citizens, and the theoretical and analytical challenges for studvents of international relations and politics, are intertwined.
=====2NC link run===== 
Creates the apocalypse
Gilette 2003 (Frank, “Cyborg Smorgasboard.” ArtLab23. V. 1, Spring)

These queries are precursors for … the future’s Cyborg.

Cyborgs would be smart – would ignore human concerns
Warwick 2003 – Department of Cybernetics, University of Reading, Whiteknights, Reading RG6 6AY, UK (“Cyborg morals, cyborg values, cyborg ethics.” Ethics and Information Technology 5: 131–137, 2003) CMR

We must be clear that with extra memory, high … pay any heed to a human’s trivial utterances.
=====2nc impact work===== 
Flips case – humans would be rendered irrelevant – affirms the bad form of species distinctions
Warwick 2003 – Department of Cybernetics, University of Reading, Whiteknights, Reading RG6 6AY, UK (“Cyborg morals, cyborg values, cyborg ethics.” Ethics and Information Technology 5: 131–137, 2003) CMR

With a brain which is part human, … may not figure too highly in such a scenario.

Turns ethics – cyborgs would be connected to a network, giving up autonomy – also tons of ethical problems with cyborgs
Warwick 2003 – Department of Cybernetics, University of Reading, Whiteknights, Reading RG6 6AY, UK (“Cyborg morals, cyborg values, cyborg ethics.” Ethics and Information Technology 5: 131–137, 2003) CMR

One murky aspect is that a … and become a Cyborg will have their own problems. Just how will Cyborg ethics relate to human ethics? The whole topic needs to be brought to the fore, now.
====Case==== 
But, peaceful cyborgs now – your author
Launius, 2010 (Roger D., PhD LSU—Senior Curator in Division of Space History @ The Smithsonian Institution’s National Air and Space Museum, previously Chief Historian of the National Aeronautics and Space Agency, Endeavour, Vol. 34, Issue 3, September 2010, “Can we Colonize the Solar System? Human Biology and Survival in the Extreme Space Environment”) CMR

Life scientists such as Clynes and … becoming cybernetic organisms.<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/science/article/pii/S0160932710000451#ref_fn0100|20]]</span>

And, your vision of solving oppression associates real struggles with wonks – that dooms their advocacy
Baard 2003 (“Inside the Movement for Posthuman Rights. Cyborg Liberation Front.” The Village Voice: Features: Cyborg Liberation Front by Erik Baard) CMR

But transhumanists' embrace of other … cyborgs and human-animal hybrids.

Advocating the SQ isn’t ludditism. Also, the tech doesn’t exist
Miah 2003 – Lecturer in Media, Bioethics, and Cyberculture University of Paisley at Ayr, Scotland, UK (Andy, “Be Very Afraid: Cyborg Athletes, Transhuman Ideals & Posthumanity.” Journal of Evolution and Technology - Vol. 13 - October 2003 <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://jetpress.org/volume13/miah.htm]]</span>) CMR

Being against transhumanism is not … simply alter it.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">And then we read some death is bad cards </span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Econ Adv__</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Dedev__</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Collapse solves extinction – now key**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Barry 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– President and Founder of Ecological Internet, Ph.D. in Land Resources from U-Wisconsin-Madison</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Glen, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology”, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="Underline">Humanity and the Earth are … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">more fragile than it looks. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Growth causes resource wars**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trainer 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ted, Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the School of Social Work, University of New South Wales, July, [ssis.arts.unsw.edu.au/tsw/D62IfYouWantAffluence.html])</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is the case with … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">need to remain heavily armed.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**More probable, more vicious, cyclical**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Renner 2002** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Senior Researcher at the Worldwatch Institute, previously, Lamont Fellow at Columbia University (Michael, “The Anatomy of Resource Wars.” WorldWatch paper 162, http://www.worldwatch.org/system/files/EWP162.pdf) CMR </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In contrast to the cold … </span>__war provides access to oil__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.10</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Growth kills cultural diversity and genetic diversity – extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Barrett 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – masters thesis, royal roads university, School of Environment and Sustainability (Mark, “Dedevelopment,” supervised by: Dr. Ann Dale, Professor School of Environment and Sustainability and Dr. Tony Boydell, Director School of Environment and Sustainability [[http://dspace.royalroads.ca/docs/bitstream/handle/10170/59/BarrettThesis20081105.pdf?sequence=1]]) CMR </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many </span>__cultures__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, traditions, </span>__languages__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(R. G. Gordon, Jr., 2005) (… and to </span>__ensure human survival.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Growth makes ecological collapse inevitable – multiple reasons**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Speth 8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [James Gustave Speth, law … identify the transformative changes needed. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The impact is extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Taylor 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Graeme Taylor is a social … </span>__ecosystem integrity, biodiversity and resilience__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Causes poverty**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Barrett 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – masters thesis, royal roads university, School of Environment and Sustainability (Mark, “Dedevelopment,” supervised by: Dr. Ann Dale, Professor School of Environment and Sustainability and Dr. Tony Boydell, Director School of Environment and Sustainability [[http://dspace.royalroads.ca/docs/bitstream/handle/10170/59/BarrettThesis20081105.pdf?sequence=1]]) CMR </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Global inequality between__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> richest and … </span>__hands of an unaccountable few.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Outweighs, D-rule**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Abu-Jamal, 98.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mumia (activist, radio journalist and former president of the Philadelphia Association of Black Journalists//jh) “A Quiet and Deadly Violence” September 19th, [[http://www.angelfire.com/az/catchphraze/mumiaswords.html]] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It has often been observed … </span>**__violence passes away with them.__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Growth causes disease**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hamburg 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—FDA Commissioner. Senior Scientist Nuclear Threat Initiative. MD (Margaret, Germs Go Global: Why Emerging Infectious Diseases Are a Threat to America, [[@http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf%29|http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf)]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Globalization__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the worldwide movement toward </span>__… ” virus__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to enter the country.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Steinbrunner 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior fellow at the Brookings institute</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(John D. Steinbruner, “Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses,” FOREIGN POLICY n. 109, Winter 1997/1998, pp. 85-96, ASP.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is a considerable comfort and … </span>__for the species as a whole__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Strategies__</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Caucus__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rd. 1 - Millard South AC - Whitey on the Moon</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shoes PIC (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Objectivity K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Speciesism K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Innoculation DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rd. 4 - Blake MM - TSATs</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Bashing Ptx DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rd. 5 - ICW HD - SPS</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russia Oil DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Doubles - Washburn Rural KS - Asteroids</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NSF CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Edelman K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Bashing Ptx DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case (2NR)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__GBX__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 1 - Dunwoody GH - Environmental Monitoring__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ESA CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Environment K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Bashing Ptx DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russia Oil DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 4 - Johns Creek DF - Sci Fi__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Objectivity K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Speceism K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case (2NR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 6 - Barstow CL - Property Rights__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Its</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T-Increase</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ASPEC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Bashing Ptx DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 7 - Woodward SS - Nuclear Waste__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Japan CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Bashing Ptx DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Dowling__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 1 - Liberty AP - Disease Monitoring__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorism PIK</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Payroll Tax Cuts Ptx DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 3 - Millard West MB - Cyborgs__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vagueness</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Objectivity K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Payroll Tax Cuts Ptx DA (2NR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 6 - Edina SM - D & G__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Objectivity K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Speceisim K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Doubles - SFL JD - Shuttles__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case (2NR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Octas - Westside FW - Cut-Up__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shoes PIC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Objectivity K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Edelman K</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Blake__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 2 - SFL PY - Shuttles__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russia Aerospace DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">JWST Trade-off DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 4 - Greenhill NK - SSA__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Taoism K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dedev (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case (2NR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 6 - GBS OT - RAMOS__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Bashing DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 7 - Minneapolis South JT - Mars Direct__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jackson Vanik DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ozone DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Doubles - HoFlo GS - SSA__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sidecar CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weaponization DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case (2NR)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__MBA__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 2 - Lexington CF - Property Rights__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Its</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Courts CP + OST (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Taoism K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jackson Vanik DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case (2NR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 3 - St. Marks BB - Orbital Depots__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Science K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PTC DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 6 - San Deguito HW - Weather Sats__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult Japan CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jackson Vanik DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Lex__</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 1 - Bishop Guertin VR - SBMD__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russia Relations DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 3 - Alpharetta BP - LPS__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jackson Vanik DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(1AR was 5 minutes of conditionality bad, so 2NR was intrinsicness bad, conditionality good)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rd. 6 - Hooch CK - Nanosatellites__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ISR CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Quarters - Westminster PP - Constellation__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Science K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russia Aerospace DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">JWST Trade-off DA</span>
Case

===__Emory__=== 
__Rd. 1 - Lexington CK - Property Rights__
T - Its
Consult Japan CP (2NR)
Chaloupka PIK
Jackson Vanik Ptx
Case

__Rd. 4 - OPRF CR - Cyborgs__
Taoism K (2NR)
Objectivity K
Cyborgs Bad DA
Case

__Rd. 6 - Blake SW - Dark Matter__
Framework (2NR)
Objectivity K
Speciesism K
Ozone DA

__Doubles - Mountain Brook MS - SPS__
T - Human
XO CP (2NR)
Security K
PTC DA (2NR)
Russia Oil DA
Case

===__Berkeley__=== 
__Rd. 2 - Westwood LL - Environmental Monitoring__
T - Human
XO CP
Environment PIK (2NR)
Taoism K
Jackson Vanik DA
Case

__Rd. 4 - GBN BS - Debris__
T - Human
Cap K (2NR)
Taoism K

__Rd. 5 - OPRF RC - Cyborgs__
Cyborgs in Sports CP
Objectivity K (2NR)
Ozone DA
Taoism DA
Case

__Triples - Moffat DZ - Weaponization__
T - Human
Cap K (2NR)
Taoism K
Weaponization DA
Case

__Doubles - HoFlo CG - TSPS__
T - Human
Cap K
Taoism K (2NR)
Case

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>