[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Plan</span>= 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should establish lunar property rights for helium-3 mining.</span>**

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1AC Property Rights]]1AC Property Rights</span>= 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1AC Moon Wars Advantage]]1AC Moon Wars Advantage</span>= 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moon race is happening – a legal framework for land distribution is required</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">While the notion of traveling to the Moon to secure a rare isotope, ...as Part II will demonstrate.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Absent a property rights regime, conflict is inevitable</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Noting the substantive problems presented by the text of both the OST and the Moon Agreement,...</span>conflict over the greatest economic opportunity in history.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That escalates to nuclear war with Russia and a space arms race</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Beljac 8</span> (Marko Beljac, PhD at Monash University, a Foreign Policy In Focus contributor, teaches at the University of Melbourne. He blogs at <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://sciencesecurity.livejournal.com/|http://sciencesecurity.livejournal.com]]</span>, | April 1, 2008, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5113]]</span> | Suo)

<span class="underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">China has tested an anti satellite weapon .... states place upon nuclear deterrence.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">War with Russia causes extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">March 31, 2009, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, [[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian ...The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independently makes war and miscalc more likely</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 08 </span>[Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live]]</span>]

Perhaps of even greater concern .... act from an accidental one would be highly problematic.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Recognizing property rights solves resource conflict</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">As stated at the forefront of this Note, ... </span>international harmony and humanitarian rewards.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US can unilaterally recognize land rights – that’s spurs investment and avoids international backlash</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
The problems with international methods in changing space law are obvious. ... in outer space pending some agreed-upon international regime."


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That spills over globally</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wasser 11</span> (Allan Wasser, former broadcast journalist at ABC News and CBS News, Chairman of the Executive Committee (CEO) of the National Space Society, member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Advocate of the Space Frontier Foundation, author of numerous articles on the subject of space property rights, most recently in The Explorers Journal, the official magazine of the Explorers Club, Space News, Ad Astra, Space Governance, May 2011, “The Space Settlement Initiative”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.spacesettlement.org/]]</span> | Suo)

The United States will probably be the first ...<span class="underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> **to undertake alone.** </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Land claim recognition is key to open up private investment</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Bennett 8</span> (Drake Bennett, staff writer for Ideas and Bloomberg Business, May 18, 2008, “If we really want to explore space, maybe we should sell it off to the highest bidders”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2008/05/18/my_space/]]</span> | Suo)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">IF THE PAST few years have taught us anything, ..."and obviously being willing to sell rides to the settlement would be a way of accomplishing that."</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Private enterprise is the only peaceful way to develop space – interdependence means countries cooperate</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]] | Suo)</span>

Some of those who have written on this subject<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span>no way be considered a U.S. attempt to appropriate the Moon<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.71</span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1AC Economy Advantage]]1AC Economy Advantage</span>= 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2 - Economy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Multiple internals:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a. Investment- Common Heritage makes space not cost effective for US companies- the plan provides a massive incentive</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Ranjana </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kaul</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, partner at Dua Associates practicing space law, columnist for the Financial Express, 11/15/</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://www.financialexpress.com/news/column-whose-moon-is-it-anyway/385819/0]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">November 14, 2008 was historic....</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11px;"> But these propositions contradict international law.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">b. Industrialization- the plan provides infinite directions for spacefaring companies- jumpstarts the market and puts us back on top</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The Apollo landing on the Moon ... which may be reaped from the commercialization of space.</span>

**c. Development- Common Heritage currently blocks space development**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeremy L. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">J.D. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School; B.A., University of South Dakota, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 15 Minn. J. Int'l L. 489</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The time for the formation ..</span> resources in a way that truly benefits all of humanity.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only the plan sends the signal that development of space is legitimate- paves the way for more innovative ventures</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Currently, most ventures are performed in the vacuum of space ... through some abstract claim- of-right to the final product.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Within 5 years the plan spurs lunar mining that uncovers a vast array of resources- leads to limitless wealth and makes us filthy rich</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Ezra J. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Reinstein</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, 19</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">99</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Space offers the potential for practically limitless wealth</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, ...</span> we may be denied access to the fruits of space for a long time to come.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That independently causes the next industrial revolution</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">An immediate and accelerated surge in the </span>... <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">including genetic engineering and molecular electronics. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly,[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, ... both within and between states</span> in a<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>dog-eat-dog world.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Diversionary conflict theory makes war stemming from economic collapse a reality</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg ‘9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron Friedberg and Gabriel Schoenfeld, Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, Senior editor of Commentary, //The Dangers of a Diminished America//, Accessed Online at the WSJ)</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, ... Japan faces similar challenges. India is still in the early stages of its emergence as a world economic and geopolitical power.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The combination of isolationism and diversion is the most deadly- leads to world war three</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Ockham Research ‘8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Independent Equity Research Provider based in Atlanta Georgia, Economic Distress and Geopolitical Risks, November 18th, Accessed Online @ Seeking Alpha)</span>

The economic turmoil roiling world markets right now brings ... the regime itself and onto another race, country, ideology, etc.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Land claims are the biggest internal link to colonization – larger than all others combined.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]] | Suo)</span>

HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on moving out into the cosmos ... <span class="underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**without these nations being guilty of national appropriation or any other legal violation.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Every second of colonization delay costs trillions of possible future lives</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Bostrum</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Director, Oxford Future of Humanity Institute Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">03</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">As a rough approximation, let us say the Virgo Supercluster contains 10^13 stars. ... the conclusion will hold.</span>
=Negative= 


=Mich= 
Round 1 – Neg vs. Bronx AA

They Read ORS
1NC: case, wep DA, TPC Pltx DA, XO
2NR: Wep and Case D

Round 4 – Neg vs. layn tech JP

They read SSA
1NC: Sec K, Pltx ( PTC ), XO, case
2NR: XO, Pltx

Round 6 – Neg vs. Whitney Young
They read LORAN SSA
1NC: Sec K, Pltx PTC, XO, Privitization, T sub, case
2NR: T substantial


=Blake= 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Round 2 - Neg vs. College Prep GY</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">They Read DSCOVR</span>
1NC = XO – pltx – case – aspec – Tsub - case
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2nr = T </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Round 4 vs.</span> Stratford
They read ORS
1NC = Pltx, XO, Weaponization, case
2NR = Pltx, Case

Round 6 <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">vs. Eden Prairie TZ</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">They read GPS III</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">1NC = Canada CP, XO PP, Pltx, T increase</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">2NR= XO PP. </span>