=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

TOC AFF
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First is ontology: Interactions are defined by forces interacting with each other and ethics only arises as asserting our force as more dominant. Deleuze 1 writes: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gilles Deleuze [Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Paris VIII]. “Nietzsche and Philosophy”. Translated by Hugh Tomlinson. 1962. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Similarly, for Nietzsche**__….__**turning against itself.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">any claim of being or ontology cannot be displaced from the will to power because the way in which we view reality is based on conflicting attempts for power. Aydin 1 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Aydin, Ciano. Nietzsche on Reality as Will to Power: Toward an “Organization–Struggle” Model. The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Issue 33, Spring 2007, pp. 25-48. Project Muse </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The result of the…</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">conception of organization.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second Epistemology: Higher metaphysical values are meaningless</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Deleuze 2 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gilles Deleuze [Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Paris VIII]. “Nietzsche and Philosophy”. Translated by Hugh Tomlinson. 1962. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">For all these reasons…</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the most base</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Moreover, absolute knowledge can’t exist outside our interpretation. Knowledge doesn’t have inherent qualities we can assign and even if it did we should reject that assumption. Foucault 1 writes: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Michel Foucault. “Nietzsche, Genealogy, History” Foucault Reader. PDF online. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The third use of history is t…has never been posed . " 57</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third: Everything collapses into the will to power – even attempts at denying it. The will to power precludes other ethics because it determines what counts as value. Aydin 2 writes: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Aydin, Ciano. Nietzsche on Reality as Will to Power: Toward an “Organization–Struggle” Model. The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Issue 33, Spring 2007, pp. 25-48. Project Muse </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There is</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> in Nietzsche’s…**__such an end__**.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus the value criterion is consistency with the will to power. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Next, prohibitions can only make sense in terms of the will to power which means denying the will to power makes prohibiting action impossible. It’s the best standard. Nietzsche 1 writes:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Friedrich Nietzsche [Nazi anti-christ]. On the Geaneology of Morals from Basic Writings of Nietzsche. Trans. by Walter Kauffman. Modern Library Publisher. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Therefore ‘just’ and ‘unjust’…a secret path to nothingness. –</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">My sole contention is that deadly force is permissible under the framework as an expression of the will to power. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">First: Deadly force is permitted to overcome the resistance and power structures of domestic violence. It’s the only way the victim’s identity is affirmed. Bogard writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Michele Bograd. STRENGTHENING DOMESTIC VIOLENCE THEORIES: INTERSECTI0NS OF RACE, CLASS, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, AND GENDER. Journal of Marital and Family Therapy July 1999,VOl. 25, NO. 3,275-289</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">However, it is crucial that</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">vulnerability to violence.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Second: The only way to affirm our freedom and inner will is deadly force. There’s no alternatives. Ayyldiz writes: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> ELISABETH Ayyildiz [Chicago-Kent College of Law, 1995; B., University of Virginia, 1991]. WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE. PDF. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">To some, the death </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">escape the abuse.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">70</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third: we can’t legitimize a norm against killing. Katsafanas writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Paul Katsafanas “A Nietzschean version of Constitutivism” 2011 //Philosophy and Phenemological Research//</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Nietzsche’s view…– of willing power.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Next, affirming the will to power makes the idea of moral blameworthiness non sense because we abandom guilt and negativity in favor of affirming life. Deleuze 3 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gilles Deleuze [Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Paris VIII]. “Nietzsche and Philosophy”. Translated by Hugh Tomlinson. 1962. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nietzsche presents the aim…comedy of bad conscience.</span>


Read this stuff. It's interesting and important. No tags to force you to read if you want to know what the arg's are.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen K. White. As the World Turns: Ontology and Politics in Judith Butler. Polity, Vol. 32, No. 2 (Winter, 1999), pp. 155-177</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Judith Butler [PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature]. “Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity.” Routledge, 1999</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen K. White. As the World Turns: Ontology and Politics in Judith Butler. Polity, Vol. 32, No. 2 (Winter, 1999), pp. 155-177</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Giving an Account of Oneself. Judith Butler [Maxine Elliot Professor of rhetoric at Berkley] University press. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">ANNA CARLINE. RESIGNIFICATIONS AND SUBVERSIVE TRANSFORMATIONS: JUDITH BUTLER’S QUEER THEORY AND WOMEN WHO KILL. Liverpool Law Review (2006) 27:303–335</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Renee Heberle . Deconstructive Strategies and the Movement against Sexual Violence. Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 63-76</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Speakouts rarely if ever….andwith real sexual power.s1 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Heberle 2 writes: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Renee Heberle . Deconstructive Strategies and the Movement against Sexual Violence. Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 63-76</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The limits placed…aspect of social life. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Jacques Derrida. On Cosmopolitanism and Forgiveness. Translated by Mark Dooley and Michael Hughes. 1997.</span>


==Negative== 
All i've read is the K and Levinas
LUCY K: i also read specific link and impact cards to the AC but i forget which ones i've read so if you wanna know those email me.

The affirmative’s philosophical method relies on objective notions of how philosophy works and the way we come to conclusions about ethics.
For the AFF every choice made is always made with regard to a categorical moral principle. Brian Massumi writes:

Brian Massumi [__<span style="color: #234786;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canada|Canadian]]</span>__ __<span style="color: #234786;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_philosophy|political philosopher]]</span>__ and __<span style="color: #234786;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_theory|social theorist]]</span>__. Currently teaching at __<span style="color: #234786;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universit%C3%A9_de_Montr%C3%A9al|Université de Montréal]]</span>__, in the Communication Sciences Department. PHD in French literature]. A User’s Guide to Capitalism and Schizophrenia. MIT Press.

State philosophy is …Prussian mind-melded.

They give ethics a fascist determination by forcing individuals to endorse objectivity and deny the existence of a subjective ideology. Ethics becomes the machine. (This card is about capitalism but I cut the card for the k to where it only talks about putting investments into some overreaching principle like cap). Deleuze and Gauttari write:
Felix and Gilles [French psychoanalyst; French philosopher and professor]. Anti-Oedipus. PDF book.
There is not ….they are prisons.

This turns the AC because 1) They negate all value 2) It turns the AC framework because in appealing to objective notions of ethics they prevent the very possibility of ethics in the first place 3) It turns the AC on a contention level because they create the very system’s of oppression and harms that their ethical system attempts to stop

The alternative is to posit morality not as a universal guide for action but as a nomadic thought experiment of reterritorializations and deterritorializations.
Massumi 2:

Brian Massumi [__<span style="color: #234786;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canada|Canadian]]</span>__ __<span style="color: #234786;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_philosophy|political philosopher]]</span>__ and __<span style="color: #234786;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_theory|social theorist]]</span>__. Currently teaching at __<span style="color: #234786;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universit%C3%A9_de_Montr%C3%A9al|Université de Montréal]]</span>__, in the Communication Sciences Department. PHD in French literature]. A User’s Guide to Capitalism and Schizophrenia. MIT Press.

“Nomad thought” does…a closed space.



Enough people emailed me for these cites that i figured i should post them:
I negate and value morality. All ethical decisions are made with regard to a social narrative defined and created by interaction and openness to the other. Butler 1 writes:
Butler, Judith. Giving an Account of Oneself. diacritics, Volume 31, Number 4, Winter 2001, pp. 22-40 (Article)
For Cavarero, the….operation of norms.

Thus the standard is actualizing our relation to the other

Butler 2 writes:
Butler, Judith. Giving an Account of Oneself. diacritics, Volume 31, Number 4, Winter 2001, pp. 22-40 (Article)
Although some would say….its own emergence

The face to face encounter with the other requires a prohibition on violence no matter what the other has done.
Butler 3:
Giving an Account of Oneself. Judith Butler [Maxine Elliot Professor of rhetoric at Berkley] University press.
If it were not for....directed toward the persecutor.

Second: Deadly force denies our shared vulnerability and denies we can always be affected by the other. Butler 4 concludes:
Giving an Account of Oneself. Judith Butler [Maxine Elliot Professor of rhetoric at Berkley] University press.
It is always possible...what we must heed.
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 

==Negative== 
.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]