[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==B0RGz v1.0== 
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Donna Haraway starts with the image of the cyborg,**</span>
(excerpts from //A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century//)

A cyborg is a cybernetic… completely without innocence.

**In 1963, a cyborg program considered altering bodily functions to meet the requirements of space environments and exploration. The program was terminated due to insufficient technology.**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Roger D. </span>**<span style="color: black;">Launius</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Howard E. **McCurdy 08** (Roger D. Lanuis, Howard E. McCurdy, Robots in Space: Technology, Evolution, and Interplanetary Travel, Pg 199-200, John Hopkins University Press.</span>
<span style="color: blue;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=rZdn2E_pocIC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Robots+in+Space:+Technology,+Evolution,+and+Interplanetary+Travel&hl=en&ei=UIluTvyoDsbksQLe6OG4BA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCoQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=nasa%20cyborg&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=rZdn2E_pocIC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Robots+in+Space:+Technology,+Evolution,+and+Interplanetary+Travel&hl=en&ei=UIluTvyoDsbksQLe6OG4BA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCoQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=nasa%20cyborg&f=false]] </span>


In an era in which anything seemed possible… serious NASA activity followed.

**In addition, an anti-science mindset ensured the death of the cyborg program.**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Roger D. </span>**<span style="color: black;">Launius</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, Howard E. **McCurdy 08** (Roger D. Lanuis, Howard E. McCurdy, Robots in Space: Technology, Evolution, and Interplanetary Travel, Pg 199-200, John Hopkins University Press.</span>
<span style="color: blue;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=rZdn2E_pocIC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Robots+in+Space:+Technology,+Evolution,+and+Interplanetary+Travel&hl=en&ei=UIluTvyoDsbksQLe6OG4BA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCoQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=nasa%20cyborg&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=rZdn2E_pocIC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Robots+in+Space:+Technology,+Evolution,+and+Interplanetary+Travel&hl=en&ei=UIluTvyoDsbksQLe6OG4BA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCoQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=nasa%20cyborg&f=false]] </span>


Many intellectuals rose.. Cyborg as space traveler.

**And, NASA budget cuts will block any possible cyborg program in the foreseeable future**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Mark K. </span>**<span style="color: black;">Matthews 11</span>**
<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.physorg.com/print234435429.html]]</span>

The cost of NASA's two…in the world," he said.

**The separation between human-machine is breaking as machine becomes ever more like us. We grow ever more concerned about our pre-established dichotomy with machines because of the current logic of domination.**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="color: black;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>

I will return to the science… ourselves frighteningly inert.


**Haraway continues, offering Chela Sandoval’s work on oppositional consciousness, an example of the cyborg mindset.**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="color: black;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>

Chela Sandoval (n.d., 1984),… emerging from decolonization.


**Embracing the cyborg is a breakaway from the mindset of a dualism between humans and technology and of domination to use and abuse technology as we want**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="color: black;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>

There are several… in order to act potently.


**Beyond the dichotomy of human-technology, the cyborg attempts to reject other totalizing politics and theory**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="color: black;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>

Writing is pre-eminently… who teaches survival.


**This allows accepting the other without an essentialist, stable ideology**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="color: black;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>

The rituals of poetry…o build effective affinities


<span class="Underline">**We affirm the cyborg as the ultimate boundary-defying chimaera.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**And thus the plan:** </span>**The United States federal government should substantially increase development of cybernetic organisms beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**


**The cyborg is only viewed from a negative perspective in modern politics, plan is crucial to broader discussion**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="color: black;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>

From one perspective… spew out the tools.

**Our presentation of case, in-round language, and discussion all work to break distinction**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="color: black;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>

Contrary to orientalist…<span style="color: black;"> command and control.</span>

**Disruptions of present dichotomies provides the hope for new unities**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="color: black;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>


The structural rearrangements… indeed be a feminist science.
==B0RGz v2.0== 
**The feminist movement began as a way to rediscover written women’s history and culture, initially through the exploration of old communities that had nurtured female creativity. Aside from the goal of finding neglected or forgotten women writers, the movement strove to forge an alternative literary tradition that could better represent the female perspective. From Christine de Pizan’s first publication about the relation of the sexes in the 15th century to the modern so-called ‘Third Wave’ of feminism, the movement has striven to explore language, biology, roles, development, and history.**
**In the modern era, with the successful recovery of many of these women’s texts, attention has turned to a question first raised in the late 70s: Shouldn’t feminist criticism formulate its own theory of practice?**
**The justifications seem to be sound. A central analysis of gender would directly address the meaning of body, sex, and gender. It would label gender differences. It would suggest possibilities for social change. Reliance on various assumptions, categories, and strategies, after all, serve only to become associated with non-feminist schools of thought which would weaken feminist theory.**
**The question then becomes what would comprise that central analysis. What ideologies are considered feminist and non-feminist? How can liberal, radical, separatist, post-structural, ecological feminism be brought together? Which would take precedence and which would be insignificant?**
<span style="font-family: Code,sans-serif;">Diquinzio 93 (Exclusion and Essentialism in Feminist Theory: The Problem of Mothering. Patrice Diquinzio)</span>
**__The analysis of gender has been__****__… in feminist practices or in social institutions.__**

**This year’s resolution:**
**Resolved:****The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**
**asks us to explore the unknown, to construct novel concepts, and to imagine new possibilities. The call of the topic is an examination of the universe and beyond.**
**To address the split between various feminist discourses, we offer an exploration of a unique space woven into every facet of our everyday lives – cyberspace. Cyberspace is the space of representation and communication in which we all interact distributed across complex and fluid networks. [cyberspace analysis]**
**We believe an exploration of cyberspace would -**
**1) allow us to address very real changes science and technology have brought to oppression, in which, as one example, the category of sex is being replaced with the category of genetics**
**2) be a representation of human relations, which all connect to each other in a multitude of ways**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>
**__It has become difficult… effective progressive politics.__**

**The advancement of science and technology over the past two centuries has created possibilities of new alignments and fusions. At the center of our exploration of human relations, science, and technology we present the metaphor of the cyborg - a cybernetic organism, a hybrid of machine and organism, a creature of social reality as well as a creature of fiction.**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I will return to the science fiction…</span> **__technologically mediated societies.__**

**We believe the affirmation of the Cyborg metaphor creates space for realignments. It creates the space necessary for various discourses of feminism to co-exist.**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>
**__From the perspective of cyborgs__****__… mundane fiction of Man and Woman.__**


**We offer Chela Sandoval’s work on oppositional consciousness an example of the cyborg mindset at work**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>
**__Chela Sandoval__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (n.d., 1984), from… polyphony emerging from decolonization.</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sandoval gives the example of a black woman, and how she is perceived. She is perceived to be not white, not Asian, not Native American, etc. so she must be black. That is her identity, based on dualisms and separation.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nothing about a black women separates her from other women other than the identity that is established for her.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Affinity is recognizing that there is no necessary difference between a black woman and other women.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Affinity is the cyborg mindset.**</span>


**Disruptions of present dichotomies provides the hope for new unities**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>
**__The structural rearrangements__****__…__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> might indeed be a feminist science.</span>
These new unities transform our thinking, and allows a new form of rational observation to solve problems in a more constructive way.

<span class="Author-Date">McWhorter 92</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ladelle, Heidegger and the Earth Essays in Environmental Philosophy, Thomas Jefferson University Press, pg. viii)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In "Earth-Thinking and Transformation…</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> avoid destroying the earth.</span>

**Our presentation of case, in-round language, and discussion all work to break the distinction of the other.**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Donna </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Haraway 91</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Contrary to orientalist stereotypes….</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> subvert command and control.</span>

=Negative= 
==2NRs== 
Politics- Government Shutdown
Topicality- OSPEC
China DA
Heidegger