[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Inherency:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The vulnerability of US satellites increases the risk of conflict- Dependence on satellites increases the probability for war and destabilizing arms races. Only through new defensive space strategies can we increase deterrence.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">MacDonald 09, former assistant director for national security at the White House </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">[Bruce W., “Testimony of Bruce W. MacDonald”, Council of Foreign Affairs, Before the Strategic Forces Subcommittee and House Armed Services Committee, March 18, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cfr.org/china/space-security/p18862]]</span>, Accessed July 12 2011]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Our space assets are exposed ...value to us as long as this is true.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Satellite vulnerability is the key weakness – our military depends on space assets</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Walsh 07 - Georgetown University Law Center</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Frank M. Associate, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, LLP Journal of Air Law and Commerce “forging a diplomatic shield for american satellites: the case for reevaluating the 2006 national space policy in light of a chinese anti-satellite system” Fall, 7/12/11, Lexis] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Satellites serve as the foundation …..bring down a seemingly unstoppable warrior.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The new space race is happening now-Russia, China, multiple countries developing their own space assets to counter the US</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">LA Times 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">(W.J. Hennigan and Ralph Vartabedian, Los Angeles Times, both are senior business writers for the Los Angeles Times, July 22, 2011,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-0722-space-race-20110722,0,2095991,full.story]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As NASA retreats</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">from an ambitious… uneasy and questioning how it happened."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US offensive abilities are increasing in the status quo-it’s the defensive measures that are being shelved</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Time News 11 (“Militarization of Space Continues with Launch of Missile-Tracking Satellite,” May 9, 2011,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://techland.time.com/2011/05/09/militarization-of-space-continues-with-launch-of-missile-tracking-satellite/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">What </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">goes up and doesn't come down…</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">arms race with potentially calamitous consequences</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Miscalculation:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chinese tests have sparked a global arms race. Our satellites are vulnerable to other countries-ASATs or cyber terrorists invite a preemptive strike </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Denmark 10 - Fellow with the Center for a New American Security</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested]]</span> %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">In an environment where all the stray bullets……</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a kind of terrorism in zero gravity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Space race inevitable - Chinese ASAT tests, weaponization and space debris all undermine crisis stability, threatening US forces</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">MacDonald 8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">—</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">former assistant director for national security at the White House office of science and technology, Princeton University trained rocket scientist</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> [Bruce W. MacDonald, September 2008, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security”, Council on Foreign Relations, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">Council Special Report No. 38, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]]</span>, accessed 7-12-11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">] <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.usip.org/experts/bruce-w-macdonald]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">With China’s demonstration of an ASAT </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">……better understand China’s evolving and ambiguous space doctrine.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Vulnerability of space assets invites a new space war – this would destroy the global economy, US hegemony and increase the risk of miscalculation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Myers, 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px;">[lexis Date Accessed: June 23, 2011March 10, 2008 Monday, The International Herald Tribune, Risk of space war: Preparation outruns prevention Steven Lee Myers - The New York Times Media Group]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It does not take much imagination……</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">which the Chinese say they want in spite of their 2007 test.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">Miscalculation would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">The American Prospect 01 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">(Morton Mintz, February 26, 2001 <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">The bitter </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14.6667px;">disputes over</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">national missile…."It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chinese ASAT development will deter the US from protecting Taiwan by exploiting asymmetric vulnerability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Straits Times 07 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">[“China takes the arms race into space; It may be testing technology it has acquired but there is a political price”, Jonathan Eyal, Jan 22 Accessed on June 24, 2011 at lexisnexis.com]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">LONDON - WESTERN governments have known about Beijing'sspaceefforts for years….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> military industries. But not for Asian stability</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">China won’t engage in negotiations when they can control out space assets via threats from ASATs. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dillon, 08 – Naval Postgraduate School</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]]</span> Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">Offense dominance is the assessment that military victory can be easily achieved…….</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ASAT weapon, the situation quickly spirals out of control. </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Taiwan is the most plausible scenario for Chinese ASAT attack</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">MacDonald 08 – Council on Foreign Relations</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Bruce, Council Special Report No. 38 September China, Space Weapons,date accessed : June 24th, 2011,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]]</span>]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">War between China and the United States seems unlikely….of a more militarily competitive space domain.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">China will take over Taiwan in 2012; leaked documents and renowned scholars prove</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lin 09 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Hermia, Taiwan News Staff Reporter, 11/23/09, “China to push Taiwan into unification by 2012”, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.arnie.tw/2009/11/22/china-to-push-taiwan-into-unification-in-2012-says-dissident-writer/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Chinese Communist Party could turn democratic…..</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">can they help fight against the upcoming disaster."</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Taiwan war goes nuclear</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solomone, 06</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Stacey, Ph.D. in Futures Studies at the University of Hawaii, “China's Space Program: the great leap upward,” Journal of Contemporary China, rmg)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">First, the PLA is suspected of making great strides……</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> that is at China’s disposal. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Power Projection:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Protecting vulnerable space assets, is key – if our satellites are vulnerable, we will not be able to deploy forward power projection</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cynamon 9 Former Deputy Program Director, Space and Nuclear Network Group</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Charles, "Defending America's Interest In Space" February 12 2009, Acsessed July 13, 2011<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada539893.pdf]]</span>] ] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Without a doubt the United States…..</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">US interests with the overall strategic environment discussion.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Forward deployment is key to global hegemony and peace – crisis escalation, reassuring allies, deterrence and demonstrating resolve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Johnson, 09, Chief of Naval Operations</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;"> [Admiral Jay L., & General Charles C. Krulak, Commandant of the Marine Corps, August 17, “Forward presence essential to American interests” <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/navy_legacy_hr.asp?id=274]]</span>> Web. Acc. 07/15/2011]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">S</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ome argue that the forward presence….ends the conflict. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">This is forward presence.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hegemony solves global war – it empirically prevents unstable multipolarity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Khalilzad, 11 – former director of planning at the Defense Department</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> [Zalmay February 8, 2011 The Economy and National Security Accessed July 29</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;"> The National Review Online]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">If U.S. policymakers fail to act and other powers continue to grow….</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Specifically, Russia’s leaders are gearing toward expansionist policies in the status quo – </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Bugajski 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Janusz, holder of the Lavrentis Lavrentiadis Chair and director of the New European Democracies program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Russia’s Pragmatic Reimperialization” CRIA Vol. 4(1))AQB</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Russia’s leaders believe that the……</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">which deals with the Middle East peace process.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Russian expansionism escalates to nuclear exchange </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Knight 8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Alex, Master's Degree in PoliSci, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://endofcapitalism.com/2008/08/26/imperialism%E2%80%99s-chess-board-war-in-the-caucuses-and-the-fall-of-pax-americana/]]</span>, AD: 7/4/10) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Poland: a Nuclear War Flashpoint</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">U.S. foreign policy strategists are…..willing to risk provoking one.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">US-Russia war is the only existential risk – sheer magnitude of nuclear arsenals </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Bostrom 2</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Nick, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>, AD: 7/4/10) jl </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">much greater </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">existential risk emerged with</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;"> …..we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">That’s the scenario for extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Engdahl 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (F. William, has written on issues of energy, politics and economics for more than 30 years,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.engdahl.oilgeopolitics.net/Geopolitics]]</span>___Eurasia/Putin/putin.html, AD: 7/5/10) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Putin also did not have North Korea, China……</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">human civilization </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">in the process. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Plan - The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of space satellite defenses beyond the Earth's mesosphere.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">Solvency:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan is necessary to solve satellite security – even if deterrence fails, hardening and reconstitution are critical to defense</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Tellis 07 - senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">[specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues. PhD from U of Chicago Ashley J. Tellis, August, 30 2007, published online on September, 1 2007, “China's Military Space Strategy”, Survivial, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]]</span>, accessed 7-14]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States must …..nullifying them or remedying their consequences</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

US commitment to forward deployment is necessary to dissuade Russia from expansionism
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Payne 9</span> (Keith, National institute for Public Policy President, Missouri State University Defense and Strategic Studies Professor,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lanl.gov/conferences/sw/2009/docs/payne_livermore-2.pdf]]</span>, AD: 7/4/10)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Assurance involves allied perceptions ……taking unwanted deployment initiatives</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>
=Negative= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">JAPAN CP</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Japan wants to set the tone for space cooperation in the relations between the two countries – but there has been a lack of dialogue </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Beckner 3 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Christian Beckner- project was headed by secretary of state for east Asian affairs Kurt M. Campbell, July 2003, space author and creater of homeland security launch, “US-Japan Space Policy: A Framework for 21st century cooperation”,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/taskforcereport.pdf]]</span>, Manchester)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">This project on the prospects </span>**__...__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> technology agendas of each nation.</span>__**

Genuine and binding consultation prior to implementation is key to the alliance
Mike Mochizuki, Senior Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 3/22/97 Brookings Review, lexis
<span style="font-size: 16px;">As the U.S.-Japan alliance becomes more reciprocal,...major West European allies.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Space Policy with Japan is key because it strengthens key frameworks and channels of interaction necessary to solidify the alliance</span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">Beckner 3 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Christian Beckner- project was headed by secretary of state for east Asian affairs Kurt M. Campbell, July 2003, space author and creater of homeland security launch, “US-Japan Space Policy: A Framework for 21st century cooperation”,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/taskforcereport.pdf]]</span>, Manchester)</span>
**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15.3333px;">But there is no guarantee ... on international space policy</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15.3333px;">.</span>


The US – Japan Security alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars
Armitage et al 2k [Richard L//.// <span class="Heading2Char">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Armitage</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. 2k</span>,<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm]]</span>)]</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Asia,</span> in the throes of historic change, <span style="font-size: 16px;">...America’s global security strategy.</span>


SECURITY K
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Aff’s vision of space as a realm to be controlled results in an extension of violence and militaristic domination—This turns the aff by encouraging the very anti-democratic wars they hope to prevent</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">MacDonald 07, </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Fraser MacDonald, Professor of Anthropology, Geography, and Environmental Studies at Melbourne University in Australia, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography,” //Progress in Human Geography,// 2007, Pages 592-615.</span>

<span class="Underline">Two things should now be clear............... His sunny view that the United States is ‘willing to extend legal and political equality to all’ sits awkwardly with the current suspension of the rule of law in Guantanamo Bay as well as in various other ‘spaces of exception’ (see Gregory, 2004; Agamben, 2005)</span>


**The aff turns the US into Big Brother—anyone, anywhere is subject to surveillance and attack—The impact is violent total domination of the globe**
**Havercroft and Duvall 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Jonathan, Ph.D. Minnesota) specializes in political theory. His primary research focus is on the historical transformation of sovereignty in the discourses of political philosophy from the 17th century to the present. He has also published essays grappling with conceptions of freedom, power, and sovereignty in early modern and contemporary political thought. His work has appeared in </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Constellations</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Review of International Studies</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and Raymond, professor of political science at the University of Minnesota, “Critical astropolitics: The geopolitics of space control and the transformation of state sovereignty” From //Securing Outer Space,//pg. 56-57) RF Conclusion: (bare) life under empire of </span>**the** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">future </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In his </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Astropolitik </span>//__Dolman ...__ __Earth, is **very slim indeed.**__




**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative and their re****presentations of space as a place to be securitized and controlled.**
**Our representation strategy matters and works—images of space as a site for control justifies and makes more likely the wars they hope to prevent**

**Grondin, 06** David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel “Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes” THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Indeed, </span>__we have no way of__ **__...____weaponization to still be possible, if not inevitable.__**



**Our framework is to put how we conceptualize space first—our interpretation of events in space is wholly dependent on our mindset—the kritik is a prior question**
**Stuart 9** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science (Jill, “Unbundling sovereignty, territory and the state in outer space Two approaches” From //Securing Outer Space,// Edited by Borrman and Sheean—Chapter 1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In regards to the study of sovereignty, territory and the state in outer space politics, ...... complex and unique politics of outer space.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]