=AFF CITES= 
[[toc]]
==<span style="font-size: 29px; line-height: 43px;">Wake 1AC </span>== 


**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the James Webb Space Telescope.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage One is Science Leadership:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. The James Webb Space Telescope is on the chopping block in Congress – revival is key to preserving U.S. science leadership</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Overbye 11</span>** – the Deputy Science Editor of The New York Times, and the author of //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Einstein in Love</span>// [July 6, 2011, Dennis Overbye, “Panel Proposes Killing Webb Space Telescope,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/science/07webb.html?_r=1]]</span>]
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The House ... **living color**</span>__.”

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Abandoning JWST will destroy U.S. science leadership on an international level</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Illingworth 11</span>** – Ph.D., Australian National University, chairs a relatively new committee, the Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee, that offers advice to Congress and NSF, NASA and DOE on the implementation of the science program developed by the astronomy science community through studies carried out by the National Academy of Sciences [January 21, 2011, Garth Illingworth, letter to Dr. John P. Holdren, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf]]</span>]
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The James Webb ...</span>__ the JSTAC.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Science leadership is key to hegemony and soft power</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coletta 9</span>** – Duke University , Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>]
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">To discover sustainable ... epistemic communities</span>__.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4. Soft power combined with hard power solves climate change, terrorism, and pandemics</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nye 8</span>** – created the theory of “soft power,” distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard [March 7, 2008, Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Security and Smart Power,”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351]]</span>]
Etzioni is correct ... one for Iran.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">5. Warming causes extinction</span>**
Bill **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Henderson</span>**, 8-19-200**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">6</span>**, Counter Currents, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm]]</span>
The scientific debate ... world we share.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">6. Incurable pandemics cause humyn extinction</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">South China Morning Post</span>**, 1-4-19**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">96</span>** (Dr. Ben Abraham= “called "one of the 100 greatest minds in history" by super-IQ society Mensa” and owner of “Toronto-based biotechnology company, Structured Biologicals Inc” according to same article)
Despite the importance ... he said.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">7. Terrorism causes extinction</span>**
Alexander 3 (Yonah, Director, Inter-University for Terrorism Studies, Jerusalem Post, 8-25-2003, Lexis)
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Last week's brutal...</span>__ spite of terror”.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">8. Collapse of US leadership will open up power vacuums worldwide – the impact is extinction</span>**
Peter **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brooks</span>**, Senior Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, 7-4-**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2006</span>**, “Why They Need Us: Imagine a World Without America,” //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New York Post</span>//,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed070406a.cfm]]</span>
For all the ... you've earned it.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage Two is WFIRST:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. JWST is stuck in logjam – additional funding is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Svitak, 11</span>** – staff writer for Space News [Feb 18, 2011, Amy Svitak, Space News, “Budget Request Offers No Immediate Relief for JWST,”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.spacenews.com/civil/budget-request-jwst.html]]</span>]
WASHINGTON — __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA’s</span>__ James ... current form.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. JWST’s failure to proceed is blocking WFIRST</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith, 10</span>** – President of the Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC, which specializes in news, information and analysis of civil, military and commercial space programs and other technology areas [Sept 16, 2010, Marcia Smith, “Dark Energy Top Priority, But Astronomers Ask if Both US and European Space Missions Are Needed,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1109:dark-energy-top-priority-but-astronomers-ask-if-both-us-and-european-space-missions-are-needed-&catid=67:news&Itemid=27]]</span>]
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Discovering the nature ...</span>__ funds NASA.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. WFIRST would massively contribute to our understanding of dark energy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Blandford, et. al 10</span>** – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council,//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics</span>//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 195-7]
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Astronomy has made ..</span>__ important role.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4. Dark energy research key to depleted Argon neutrino detectors – solves port security and non-proliferation efforts.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Acosta-Kane et. al. 7</span>** – Department of Physics, Princeton University [12/3/07, D., “Discovery of underground argon with low level of radioactive 39Ar and possible applications to WIMP dark matter detectors,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/arxiv/pdf/0712/0712.0381v1.pdf]]</span> DH]
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The existence of ... **port security.**</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">5. Holes in port security allow terrorists to bring in weapons of mass destruction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schumer 1</span>** [Senator Charles; D-NY; “Schumer: Inadequate Security Poses Severe Terrorist Threat To Ny, Us Ports”; Press Release; 09 Dec 2001; retrieved 18 Jul 2003; <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://schumer.senate.gov/SchumerWebsite/pressroom/press_releases/PR00750.html]]</span>]
"You can't just ... It's that simple."

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">6. Retaliation after terrorists getting nukes into the U.S. would kill hundreds of millions within 24 hours</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Easterbrook 1</span>** Greg, The new republic, November 1, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0111/01/gal.00.html]]</span> accessed 7/10/03
GREENFIELD: Now, finally,...Muslim __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">countries**.**</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">7. Neutrino detectors solves the political causes of rogue proliferation, enables enforcement of the NPT, and prevents nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Guillain 6</span>** – PhD, Department of Physics, University of Hawaii, [9/27/06, Eugene, “Far Field Monitoring of Rogue Nuclear Activity with an Array of Large anti-neutrino Detectors,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/hep-ph/pdf/0607/0607095v2.pdf]]</span>]
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The human race ...reliably detected__</span>**

**8. The impact is nuclear war**
**Utgoff 2** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources at the Institute for Defense Analyses [summer 2002, Victor, Survival, “Proliferation, Missile Defense and American Ambitions”, 44:2, p. 87-90]</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Many readers are ... __whole nations.__</span>**

**Advantage Three is STEM Education**

**1. There’s a lack of interest in STEM education now**
**White House 10** <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, “Report to The President Prepare And Inspire: K-12 Education In Science, Technology, Engineering, And Math </span>(STEM) for America’s Future”, September 2010, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/pcast-stemed-report.pdf]
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is important... all groups.</span>**

**2. JWST is key to revolutionize our understanding of science – ground based telescopes are insufficient.**
**Mountain 11** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the current Director of the Space Telescope Science Institute, Ph.D in astronomy [Winter 2011, Matt Mountain, “The James Webb Space Telescope—It’s Complicated, but so Is Leadership,” vol 28, issue 1,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[https://blogs.stsci.edu/newsletter/files/2011/03/STScIWINTER2011NL.pdf#page=49|https://blogs.stsci.edu/newsletter/files/2011/03/STScIWINTER2011NL.pdf#page=49]]</span>]</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The recent release … __is underway__.”</span>**

**3. Astronomical discoveries can spur national interest in STEM – that’s key to long term growth and competitiveness**
**Elmegreen 11 <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">President of the American Astronomical Society and is the Maria Mitchell Professor of Astronomy and Department Chair in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Vassar [March 11, 2011, Dr. Debra Elmegreen, “Testimony of Dr. Debra M. Elmegreen President of the American Astronomical Society Before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies On Astronomy and Astrophysics in the FY 2012 Budget,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://blog.aas.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/AAS-Testimony-to-Congress.pdf]]</span>]</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The excitement of ...__ courses annually.</span>**

**4. STEM education is the key internal link to the U.S. economy**
**The Hill 11** <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Texas), “U.S. Economic Future Needs STEM Education”, April 1th, 2011,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://opportunityequation.org/news-press/us-economic-future-needs-stem]]</span>]</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The U__nited __S__tates ... White counterparts.</span>**

**5. Economic stagnation leads to nuclear war**
**Mead 92** (Walter Russell, fellow, Council on Foreign Relations, New perspectives quarterly, summer pp. 28)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But what if i...__in the '30s.__</span>

**6. STEM expertise is key to preventing cyber warfare**
**Lips and McNeil 9** <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Dan and Jena Baker, Senior Policy Analyst in the Domestic Policy Studies Department and Policy Analyst for Homeland Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation,”A New Approach to Improving Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math Education,” The Heritage Foundation, April 15,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/04/A-New-Approach-to-Improving-Science-Technology-Engineering-and-Math-Education]]</span>)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Those who underestimate ... superior STEM skills.__</span>**

**7. Cyberwarfare causes space war**
**Coleman 10** <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Kevin Coleman, Defense Tech Chief Cyber War Correspondent, Cyber War = Space War, March 1st, 2010,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://defensetech.org/2010/03/01/cyber-war-space-war/#ixzz1948Fvj1r|http://defensetech.org/2010/03/01/cyber-war-space-war/#ixzz1948Fvj1r]]</span> )</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While the satellite ... __in outer space.__</span>**


**8. Space war causes extinction**
**Mitchell et al 1 <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span> )</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The dizzying speed ... ever seen.__</span>**

**9. Cyber warfare ensures accidental nuclear war – multiple warrants**
**Fritz 9** <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Jason - former Captain of the U.S. Army, July, Hacking Nuclear Command and Control)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The US uses ...__ between governments.</span>**

**10. An accidental launch from a submarine would lead to full scale nuclear retaliation**
**Manzo ‘8** <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(CDI, Research Assistant, “An Examination of the Pentagon’s Prompt Global Strike Program: Rationale, Implementation, and Risks,”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/PGSfactsheet.pdf]]</span> )</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Given that U.S.__ ... the Army.”40</span>**

**11. It will escalate**
**Forrow ’98** <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Lachlan Forrow, MD, et al, “Accidental Nuclear War – A Post-Cold War Assessment”, New England Journal of Medicine, 1998, iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/20625/acciden_nuke_war.pdf)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The direct toll ...casualties worldwide.__</span>**

**12. Retaliation to cyber-attack escalates to global nuclear war**
**Lawson 9**** (Sean - assistant professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Utah, Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict, , 5/13/2009, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.seanlawson.net/?p=477]]</span> )
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At a time ...</span>__ greater seriousness.” [7]

==<span style="font-size: 29px; line-height: 43px;">Iowa Caucus 1AC</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Advantage One is Science Diplomacy</span>**

**1. The JWST is on the chopping block in Congress - cutting it sends the next generation of scientists to other countries, such as China. Additionally, funding, not technology is the problem.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bullock 9/6 </span>**(James, professor of physics and astronomy at UC Irvine and director of the Southern California Center for Galaxy Evolution, “Reaching for the stars”, http://www.bellinghamherald.com/2011/09/06/2171807/reaching-for-the-stars.html)
__**Walk through the...of the universe itself.**__

**2. Right now Europe and the U.S. are cooperating on a litany of global problems through renewed focus on scientific cooperation. Continued cooperation with Europe is the hub of all international science cooperation.**
**Leshner 9**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, the chief executive officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and Turekian, chief international officer at AAAS – *executive publisher of the journal Science AND director of its Center for Science Diplomacy [February 2009, Alan I. Leshner and Vaughan Turekian, Editorial, “Europe and the United States: A Crucial Moment for Science Cooperation,” http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/jrc/downloads/jrc_newsletter_2009_02.pdf]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the centuries...have been strained.</span>__


**3. Unilaterally cancelling JWST would not only undermine current and future cooperation with Europe, but it would send a disheartening message to other current and future partners**
**Borowiz,** Research Analyst at the Space Foundation, **11** – the Space Foundation has become one of the world's premier nonprofit organizations supporting space activities [July, 2011, Mariel John Borowitz, “The James Webb Space Telescope A Worthy Investment in Space Science,” http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2011/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf]
JWST is being...much more problematic.

**3. Unilaterally cancelling JWST would not only undermine current and future cooperation with Europe, but it would send a disheartening message to other current and future partners**
**Borowiz**, Research Analyst at the Space Foundation, **11** – the Space Foundation has become one of the world's premier nonprofit organizations supporting space activities [July, 2011, Mariel John Borowitz, “The James Webb Space Telescope A Worthy Investment in Space Science,” http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2011/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf]

**<span style="background-color: white;">We’ll Isolate Two Scenarios:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Scenario One is Arctic Conflict</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Specifically, science diplomacy solves arctic conflict - creates a stable governance framework.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Royal Society 10</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">“New Frontiers of Science Diplomacy”, AAAS, Jan</span>
__The latest International...issues to be addressed.__

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. That prevents resource competition from escalating.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Lempinen 9 –</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Sr. Writer @ AAAS, Edward, “On Security, Climate, and Economic Development, Conference Sees Need for Science Diplomacy”, AAAS, 6/29, http://www.aaas.org/news/releases/2009/0629london.shtml</span>
__A generation ago...peace and stability."__

**<span style="background-color: white;">3. Arctic war happens by 2013 - diplomacy is key.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Joyner ‘9</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> (James Joyner is managing editor of the Atlantic Council, “Arctic Thaw Brings NATO Security Risks,” http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/arctic-thaw-brings-nato-security-risks)</span>
__<span style="background-color: white;">NATO leaders said...size of France.</span>__


**4. Arctic conflict goes nuclear.**
**Staples 9** **–** Steven, Rideau Institute (Danish Institute for International Studies, Copenhagen , “PRESENTATION NOTES STEPS TOWARD AN ARCTIC NUCLEAR WEAPON FREE ZONE”, Dansk Institut for Internationale Studier, 8/10, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf
__The fact is...of nuclear weapons.__

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">5. Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Phillips 2 - </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dr. Alan, medical and nuclear researcher, “No Launch On Warning”, Ploughshares working paper 02-1, May, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/05/00_phillips_no-launch.htm</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">The prevention of any...system is absurd</span>

**6. Science-based, multilateral cooperation is key to prevent extinction**
**Sackett**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**,** former Chief Scientist for Australia, </span>**10** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">– former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine for a moment...sustain these links. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">Scenario Two is Tigris-Euphrates:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Science diplomacy is key to solve a Tigris-Euphrates water crisis</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Whitaker and Varghese ’10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Joel and Anand. 4-22 United States Institute of Peace, “The tigris-Euphrates river basin: a science diplomacy opportunity” online</span>
To deal with...and water planning.


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. Causes conflict over resources - cooperation is key to solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> MacQuarrie ‘4</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Patrick 2-26. “Growing conflict over development in the Euphrates-tigris basin” Online</span>
Finally, history in...over water security

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">3. Water shortages will trigger global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Weiner 90</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan- Professor of Molecular Biology at Princeton University, The next 100 years: shaping the fate of our living earth, p. 214)</span>
__If we do not destroy...stockpiled since Trinity.__

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Advantage Two is STEM Education</span>

**1. There’s a lack of interest in STEM education now**
**White House 10** <span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">[President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, “Report to The President Prepare And Inspire: K-12 Education In Science, Technology, Engineering, And Math (STEM) for America’s Future”, September 2010, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/pcast-stemed-report.pdf]</span>
__It is important...across all groups.__

**2. JWST is key to revolutionize our understanding of science – ground based telescopes are insufficient.**
**Mountain 11** **<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">the current Director of the Space Telescope Science Institute, Ph.D in astronomy [Winter 2011, Matt Mountain, “The James Webb Space Telescope—It’s Complicated, but so Is Leadership,” vol 28, issue 1, https://blogs.stsci.edu/newsletter/files/2011/03/STScIWINTER2011NL.pdf#page=49]</span>
__The recent release...is underway."__

**3. Astronomical discoveries can spur national interest in STEM**
**Elmegreen 11** **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">President of the American Astronomical Society and is the Maria Mitchell Professor of Astronomy and Department Chair in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Vassar [March 11, 2011, Dr. Debra Elmegreen, “Testimony of Dr. Debra M. Elmegreen President of the American Astronomical Society Before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies On Astronomy and Astrophysics in the FY 2012 Budget,” http://blog.aas.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/AAS-Testimony-to-Congress.pdf]</span>
The excitement of...astronomy courses annually.

**4. STEM expertise is key to preventing cyber warfare**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lips and McNeil 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dan and Jena Baker, Senior Policy Analyst in the Domestic Policy Studies Department and Policy Analyst for Homeland Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation,”A New Approach to Improving Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math Education,” The Heritage Foundation, April 15, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/04/A-New-Approach-to-Improving-Science-Technology-Engineering-and-Math-Education) </span>
__Those who underestimate...superior STEM skills.__

**5. And there is no question - a cyberwar is coming and current national security is not enough – new U.S. tech is key to counter hacking threats**
**Baker 9-30** [Stewart, a former official at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the National Security Agency. He practices law at Steptoe & Johnson in Washington and is the author of Skating on Stilts: Why We Aren't Stopping Tomorrow's Terrorism “Denial of Service,” Foreign Policy, 9-30-2011, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/30/denial_of_service?page=0,0]
__No one seriously denies...new legal restrictions.__

**6. Cyber warfare ensures accidental nuclear war – multiple warrants**
**Fritz 9** (Jason - former Captain of the U.S. Army, July, Hacking Nuclear Command and Control)
__The US uses the...between governments.__

**7. An accidental launch from a submarine would lead to full scale nuclear retaliation**
**Manzo ‘8** (CDI, Research Assistant, “An Examination of the Pentagon’s Prompt Global Strike Program: Rationale, Implementation, and Risks,” http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/PGSfactsheet.pdf )
Rationale, Implementation, and...and the Army."40

**8. Escalation would kill billions**
**Forrow ’98** (Lachlan Forrow, MD, et al, “Accidental Nuclear War – A Post-Cold War Assessment”, New England Journal of Medicine, 1998, iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/20625/acciden_nuke_war.pdf)
The direct toll...casualties worldwide.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">9. The timeframe for an “electronic Pearl Harbor” 15 minutes </span>**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Spillius ‘10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Alex, May 07, “Cyber attack 'could fell US within 15 minutes'”, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/7691500/Cyber-attack-could-fell-US-within-15-minutes.html) </span>
__Richard Clarke claims...foot in the United States.__

**10. Don’t believe their claims – a successful attack will destroy any resiliency**
**Billo and Chang ‘4** (Charles and Welton, Senior Research Associate at ISTS and Research Intern at ISTS, “CYBER WARFARE AN ANALYSIS OF THE MEANS AND MOTIVATIONS OF SELECTED NATION STATES,” Institute for Security Technology Studies at Dartmouth College, November)
The conventional wisdom...reconnaissance and probes.**
==<span style="font-size: 29px;">U of M 1AC</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the James Webb Space Telescope.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Contention One is the Metaphor of Light and Dark</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1. The JWST is on the chopping block in Congress - cutting it sends the next generation of scientists to other countries, such as China. Additionally, funding, not technology is the problem.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bullock 9-6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [James, professor of physics and astronomy at UC Irvine and director of the Southern California Center for Galaxy Evolution, “Reaching for the stars”, http://www.bellinghamherald.com/2011/09/06/2171807/reaching-for-the-stars.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Walk through the...the universe itself.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2. JWST’s failure to proceed is blocking WFIRST</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Smith, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">President of the Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC, which specializes in news, information and analysis of civil, military and commercial space programs and other technology areas [Sept 16, 2010, Marcia Smith, “Dark Energy Top Priority, But Astronomers Ask if Both US and European Space Missions Are Needed,” http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1109:dark-energy-top-priority-but-astronomers-ask-if-both-us-and-european-space-missions-are-needed-&catid=67:news&Itemid=27]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Discovering the nature...that funds NASA.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">3. WFIRST would massively contribute to our understanding of dark energy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Blandford, et. al 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> –</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 195-7]</span>
Astronomy has made...an important role.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Dark matter research will challenge the age old metaphor of light and dark</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Wilberg 9**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Acharya Peter, Indian spiritual teacher, written countless essays and published a variety of books on themes ranging from science and religion to medicine and psychiatry, politics and economics, psychoanalysis and psychotherapy, 'DARK MATTER' AS AN OCCULT THREAT TO THE FOUNDATIONS OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE , www.thenewyoga.org/dark_matter.pdf) </span>
Nowhere does the...of 'dark' matter.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">5. The Dark-Light metaphor enters into all aspects of our lives - without our knowing, we are always surrounded by this dichotomy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">McGarrity 4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew, Lecturer in South Asian and Indo-Tibetan Studies, The University of Syndey, http://escholarship.usyd.edu.au/journals/index.php/SSR/article/viewFile/198/177, Sydney Studies in Religion, “Darkness and Paradox as the Beginning and End of Understanding”) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Metaphors of light...of the manifest.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">6. The linguistic genealogy of “light” is racist - “lightness” is a metaphor for whiteness and moral purity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Berthold 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Ph.D. in Philosophy at the University of Oregon] (Dana, “Tidy Whiteness: A Genealogy of Race, Purity, and Hygiene,” Ethics & the Environment, Volume 15, Number 1, Spring, pp. 1-26. http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v015/15.1.berthold.html)</span>
The linguistic genealogy...a caste system.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7. These contemporary understandings of light are inseparable from their roots in racialized thinking</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Berthold 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Ph.D. in Philosophy at the University of Oregon] (Dana, “Tidy Whiteness: A Genealogy of Race, Purity, and Hygiene,” Ethics & the Environment, Volume 15, Number 1, Spring, pp. 1-26.</span> <span class="wikilinkext"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v015/15.1.berthold.html</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Consider one more...of racialized peoples.

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">8. Racism makes war and violence inevitable – it presents our enemies as biologically inferior to justify their extermination</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Mendieta 2** - (4/25/02, Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “ ‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting”)</span>
This is where...biological in nature.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">9. Thus, racism must be rejected in every instance – necessary to avert violence and ultimately destruction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Memmi 2000 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Albert, Professor Emeritus of Sociology Qa U of Pans, //Naiteire Racism,// Translated by Steve Martinot, 163-165]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The struggle against...</span>are irresistibles

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10. In order to challenge the racist methodology of these terms we must reject their use in each and every instance - exploring dark matter is a first step</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Shahadah 5</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(African Cultural Historian and Filmmaker, “Linguistics for a New African Reality” Cheikh Anta Diop Conference)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We must not...cultural emancipation.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11. Specifically, debate is a communication activity, which makes it a unique location for breaking down metaphors within our language in order to disrupt the signifier-signified relationship.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Travis 97</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of English @ Dartmouth - 1997 (Peter W., “Chaucer's Heliotropes and the Poetics of Metaphor,” Speculum vol. 72 no. 2, JSTOR)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">These heliotropic flowers...with (dis)similitudes</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.2 </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Contention Two is Evaluating Impacts</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Major conflicts are decreasing now – prefer our evidence, it cites trends and assumes all types of war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mueller 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(John, Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies, Mershon Center Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University, “This Just In: War has almost ceased to exist”)</span>
War has greatly...civil war.

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">2. Multiple factors make great power wars impossible.</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Gelb 10** [Dec. 2010, Leslie H. Gelb, PhD, President Emeritus and Board Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations, “GDP Now Matters More Than Force: A US Foreign Policy for the Age of Economic Power,” [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66858/leslie-h-gelb/gdp-now-matters-more-than-force?page=show]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Also reducing the...in explosive situations. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Nuclear war is survivable – apocalyptic theories have no scientific basis.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist, </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">99 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(J.R., </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">regular geopolitical columnist for Financial Sense Online, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">regular columnist for WorldNetDaily from 1999 until 2001, “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19722)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">As I write...war is </span><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">survivable</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span>


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">4. Existential risk prioritization is analytically incoherent - it results in policy paralysis.</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **Meskill 9** [David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, [[http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tom Friedman's piece...to take action.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">5. Err of the side of probable impacts - their so called experts don’t understand the future of political affairs and cannot accurately predict events. They are less accurate than a monkey throwing darts.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Menand 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> [Louis, phD Colombia and Robert M. and Anne T. Bass Professor of English and American Literature and Language at Harvard University., The New Yorker, 12-05-2005, http://www.newyorker.com/critics/content/articles/051205crbo_books1]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Prediction is one...greater, not less.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.3em;">**Ohio Valley 1AC**</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Plan: The United States Coast Guard should deploy satellites integrated with Automatic Identification System sensors and Synthetic Aperture Radar technology beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage One is Cocaine Trade</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Colombian traffickers are switching to submarines to ship cocaine – statistical decreases in exports reflect the evasiveness of new smuggling methods</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Otis 11</span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(John Otis, BBC Reporter Specializing In Colombian Affairs, “Drug submarines: Colombia's underwater cocaine traffic” 4/26, Online [FH])</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">According to Jay Bergman,... But I'm not interested.'"</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Submarines are the method of choice for Colombian traffickers – they carry seventy percent of cocaine exports and evade detection by status quo technology</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Otis 10</span>** (John Otis, BBC Colombia News Correspondent, “Drug traffickers move underwater” Global Post, Published 4-15-2009 and Edited 5-30-2010, Online [HT])

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today, smugglers are ...</span>__at spotting them.



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Declines in coca production miss the point – farmers simply regrow higher yield crops – status quo counternarcotics efforts backfire and make cartels stronger – Colombia is the lynchpin of global cocaine exports</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chalk 11</span>** (Peter Chalk, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact, and Response” RAND, 2011, Online [FH])

That said__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Washington’s ...</span>__West Africa–Europe route.



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cocaine cultivation puts the Colombian rainforests on the brink of collapse</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Science Daily 11</span>** (Science and Environmental News Source, Article Cites Research from Stony Brook University “Cocaine Production Increases Destruction of Colombia’s Rainforests” 1/29/11, Online [FH])

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Cultivating coca bushes,** ...</span>__ the report suggests.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Colombian rainforests are critical global biodiversity hotspots – cocaine production is the biggest threat. Each gram of cocaine used leads to four square meters of rainforests being cleared.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Doward 9</span>** (Janie Doward, Staff Writer for the Observer, Guardian UK, “Colombia's endangered species at the mercy of jungle drug cartels” 10/25/09, [FH])

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Colombia, one of the ... and resist biodegradation.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Biodiversity is key to check extinction</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Watson 6</span>** (Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|__http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html__]]</span>)
The facts are clear. **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__....__</span>** human __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">destruction.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically, Amazon biodiversity collapse fuels famines and thermonuclear war extinguishing civilization</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Takacs 96</span>** – teaches environmental humanities (history, ethics, justice, politics) in the Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State (David, “The Idea of Biodiversity: Philosophies of Paradise,” 1996, pg. 200-201)
So __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**biodiversity keeps ...**</span>__, but a whimper.14

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, we’ll preempt your defense – forests ecosystems can only maintain resiliency if their species are biodiverse</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wilson 2</span>** (Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor-Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ecosystems are kept ...vegetation still more</span>__.



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage Two is Arctic Conflict</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">International competition over arctic resources is inevitable – now is key to lock in U.S. dominance – failure guarantees conflict due to heightened tensions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Macalister 11</span>**(Terry Macalister, energy editor of the Guardian UK, “US and Russia stir up political tensions over Arctic” July 6, 2011, Online [FH])

The message was clear: __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">... **preparing for conflict."**</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AIS satellite integration is key to lock in dominance through icebreaker missions, which is critical to maritime domain awareness - the status quo plans AIS, but it will fail because it isn’t high enough in the atmosphere – only the coast guard has jurisdiction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NRC 7</span>** (Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council, This Includes: Polar Research Board (PRB), Marine Board (MB), Earth and Life Studies (DELS), Transportation Research Board (TRB), “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” The National Academic Press, pg. 48-50, Online [FH])

As ship traffic... and centers on shore.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vessel tracking capabilities through MDA are uniquely key – they’re a prerequisite to all other maritime operations</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lessing 6</span>** ( P. A. Lessing, National Data Buoy Center, Cdr. B. J. Tetreault, United States Coast Guard, L. J. Bernard, University of Southern Mississippi, J. N. Chaffin, Science Applications International Corporation, “Use of the Automatic Identification System (AIS) on Autonomous Weather Buoys for Maritime Domain Awareness Applications” 9/1, Online [FH])

Maritime Domain Awareness, ...__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">enforcement and other missions.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Arctic conflict would go nuclear.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Staples</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">9</span>** – Steven, Rideau Institute (Danish Institute for International Studies, Copenhagen , “PRESENTATION NOTES STEPS TOWARD AN ARCTIC NUCLEAR WEAPON FREE ZONE”, Dansk Institut for Internationale Studier, 8/10,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]]</span>
The fact is, __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the ....use of nuclear weapons</span>__.”


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Quickest scenario for extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span>** (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility, March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]]</span>)
President __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama and</span>__ ... __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">remains in place today.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Luckily, MDA checks nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goward 7</span>** (Captain Dana A. Goward, executive secretary for the National MDA Implementation Team and the Coast Guard’s Director of MDA Program Integration, Commandant CG-52, “Maritime Domain Awareness: The Key to Security” US Naval Institute, Online [FH])
An important part ...we must understand


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention Two is Solvency</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Automatic Identification System technology exists, but it fails because it isn’t space-based – 18 AIS satellites integrated with SAR imaging allows for 99 percent efficiency in real time monitoring of every vessel on the planet</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Singh 10</span>** (Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in
Territorial Sea” 12/2010, Online [FH])
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AIS signals can ....</span>__ provide near-real MST.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Integration allows effective detection of criminal vessels</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vahcon 6</span>** (Paris W., “Ship Detection in Synthetic Aperature Radar Imagery”, Defense R&D Canada, Third Workshop on Coastal and Marine Applications of SAR, October 2006, __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.oceansar2006.com/papers/82_Vachon_Oceansar2006.pdf]]{MB}</span>__)
Automatic Identification System (__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AIS</span>__), ... __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ship detection systems.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Stopping the narco-subs will collapse the market</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ross 7</span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Brian Ross, ABC News Reporter, “Run Silent, Run Drugs: The Cocaine Sub Fleet” 12/20, Online [FH])</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Drug traffickers are .... market," Walters says.</span>__

==<span style="line-height: 35px;">Varsity States 1AC</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">Plan: The United States Coast Guard should deploy satellites integrated with Automatic Identification System sensors and Synthetic Aperture Radar technology beyond the Earth's mesosphere.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage One is Cocaine Trade</span>**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Colombian traffickers are switching to submarines to ship cocaine – statistical decreases in exports reflect the evasiveness of new smuggling methods</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Otis 11</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(John Otis, BBC Reporter Specializing In Colombian Affairs, “Drug submarines: Colombia's underwater cocaine traffic” 4/26, Online [FH])</span>__
__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">According to Jay Bergman,... But I'm not interested.'"</span>__

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Submarines are the method of choice for Colombian traffickers – they carry seventy percent of cocaine exports and evade detection by status quo technology</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Otis 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (John Otis, BBC Colombia News Correspondent, “Drug traffickers move underwater” Global Post, Published 4-15-2009 and Edited 5-30-2010, Online [HT])</span>

__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Today, smugglers are ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">at spotting them.</span>



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Declines in coca production miss the point – farmers simply regrow higher yield crops – status quo counternarcotics efforts backfire and make cartels stronger – Colombia is the lynchpin of global cocaine exports</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chalk 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Peter Chalk, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact, and Response” RAND, 2011, Online [FH])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That said__, Washington’s ...__West Africa–Europe route.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cocaine cultivation puts the Colombian rainforests on the brink of collapse</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Science Daily 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Science and Environmental News Source, Article Cites Research from Stony Brook University “Cocaine Production Increases Destruction of Colombia’s Rainforests” 1/29/11, Online [FH])</span>

**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cultivating coca bushes,</span>__**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the report suggests.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Colombian rainforests are critical global biodiversity hotspots – cocaine production is the biggest threat. Each gram of cocaine used leads to four square meters of rainforests being cleared.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Doward 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Janie Doward, Staff Writer for the Observer, Guardian UK, “Colombia's endangered species at the mercy of jungle drug cartels” 10/25/09, [FH])</span>

__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Colombia, one of the ... and resist biodegradation.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Biodiversity is key to check extinction</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Watson 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17,</span><span style="background-color: initial; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|__http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html__]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The facts are clear. **__<span style="background-color: white;">....</span>__** human __destruction.__</span>


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, Amazon biodiversity collapse fuels famines and thermonuclear war extinguishing civilization</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Takacs 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – teaches environmental humanities (history, ethics, justice, politics) in the Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State (David, “The Idea of Biodiversity: Philosophies of Paradise,” 1996, pg. 200-201)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">So **__<span style="background-color: white;">biodiversity keeps ...</span>__**, but a whimper.14</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Finally, we’ll preempt your defense – forests ecosystems can only maintain resiliency if their species are biodiverse</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wilson 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor-Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)</span>

__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ecosystems are kept ...vegetation still more</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Advantage Two is </span>****<span style="font-size: 14pt;">P</span>****<span style="font-size: 14pt;">iracy</span>**

**Somalian piracy is spreading throughout the Gulf of Aden – inability to monitor the maritime domain causes status quo containment policies fail**
**Gettleman 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeffrey Gettleman, </span>writer for NY Times<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Suddenly, a Rise in Piracy’s Price” NY Times, 2-26-2011, Online [HT])</span>
The question now is: Are…or perhaps escalated atrocities. ‘’ **‘’**

**Maritime Domain Awareness is critical to counter-piracy operations – AIS is key to solve**
**Salerno 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (RADM Brian M. Salerno, </span>assistant commandant for marine safety security and stewardship,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “On The: Piracy Against U.S. Flagged Vessels: Lessons Learned” Department of Homeland Security, 5-20-2009, Online [HT])</span>
Counter-piracy forces must…and national security partners.

**Gulf of Aden piracy is the biggest cause of instability in Yemen – it allows for Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula to effectively regroup and launch attacks**
**Atarodi 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alexanderia, </span>Defense Analyst<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Yemen in Crisis – Consequences for the Horn of Africa” Swedish Defense Research Agency, March 2010, Online, [SS])</span>
Pirate attacks in the…for the Horn of Africa.

**Al Qaeda acquisition and use of chemical and biological weapons is extremely likely and represents the most immediate threat to the U.S.**
**Baldor 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lolita Baldor, </span>**Writer for****Associated Press**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “U.S. Plans to Train Yemeni Counter-Terrorism Unit” Monday, February 14, 2011, http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/us-plans-train-yemeni-counter-terrorism)</span>
Senior U.S. intelligence officials…is hiding in Yemen.

**Bioweapons cause extinction – outweighs nuclear war**
**Ochs 2** **former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition**, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
Of all the weapons of mass destruction… patriotism is the highest of all crimes.

**<span style="background-color: white;">The timeframe for bioweapons to spread globally is six weeks</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Levy</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>****<span style="background-color: white;">a consultant for ESG Consulting, an organization that provides consulting services for project development and management primarily related to national security and terrorism, </span>**7<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Janet, “The Threat of Bioweapons”, The American Thinker, 6-8-2007, http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]</span>
Biological weapons are among…can be developed within days.

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention Two is Solvency</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Automatic Identification System technology exists, but it fails because it isn’t space-based – 18 AIS satellites integrated with SAR imaging allows for 99 percent efficiency in real time monitoring of every vessel on the planet</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Singh 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Territorial Sea” 12/2010, Online [FH])</span>
__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AIS signals can ....</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> provide near-real MST.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Integration allows effective detection of criminal vessels</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vahcon 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Paris W., “Ship Detection in Synthetic Aperature Radar Imagery”, Defense R&D Canada, Third Workshop on Coastal and Marine Applications of SAR, October 2006, __<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.oceansar2006.com/papers/82_Vachon_Oceansar2006.pdf]]</span>{MB}__)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Automatic Identification System (__AIS__), ... __ship detection systems.__</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">Your disads are non-unique:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">The coast guard has $3 billion allocated</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Department of Homeland Security 9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Department of Homeland Security, “Secretary Napolitano Announces ARRA Funding of Coast Guard Improvement Projects” 4-20-2009, Online [HT])</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary…in support of DHS programs.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">Future space exploration and launches are inevitable </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">NASA 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (NASA, “What’s Next For NASA?” 7-1-2011, Online [HT])</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">"As a former astronaut and the current NASA… the most extreme active galaxies.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">International space projects are inevitable – Russia and China prove</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Arkhipov and Pronina 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ilya Arkhipov and Lyubov Pronina, </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">writers for Bloomberg News</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, “Russia bullish on space program’s future” Journal Gazette, 4-10-2011, Online [HT])</span>
Russia may accelerate planned…manned mission in 2020.

**Your international CP is normal means – cooperation on AIS exists in the squo**
**OAS** Inter-American Committee on Ports **11**, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robert Rogodzinski, “Open Sharing of Automatic Identification System (AIS) Information,” http://www.safeports.org/important-issues/maritime-safety-and-security-information-system/think-global-act-local</span>
The transmission of Automatic…AIS data sharing to date include:

==Gaiomes Varsity States 1AC== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">Contention One is Inherency:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">A. Current space exploration and development is based on an impossible commitment to infinite growth</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Perma-culture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 29-32, 2007) Jacome
**<span style="background-color: white;">Growth would seem an absolute</span>**…Galaxy would fill up in a hurry.

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**<span style="background-color: white;">B. The frontier mentality cannot solve the problem of growth – delaying a solution to growth is equivalent to no solution at all – action now is key</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 39-40, 2007) Jacome
If building an ark is off the table…us economically in the short run.

**<span style="background-color: white;">C. When growth reaches its limits, massive suffering becomes inevitable</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 33, 2007) Jacome.
Long before growth…along the way.

**D. Solving all global issues is impossible with our current pursuit of growth**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 34-35, 2007) Jacome
<span style="background-color: white;">The frontier’s second promise…we live in deeply precarious times.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should construct and deploy Gaiomes beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">Contention Two is Ecological Consciousness:</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">A. Colonization of the status quo uniquely neglects the destruction we leave in our path – we try to run away from our problems in earth, but simply export those problem to the entire galaxy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Kochi and Ordan 8</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Tarik, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity,” 2008)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2006 on an Internet forum called Yahoo!..</span>__technological innovation and action.__

**<span style="background-color: white;">B. Our dominance over nature is the ideology that justifies all forms of dominance – an in-depth ecological awareness is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Luke 2</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Timothy W., PhD and expert in environmental politics and studies, professor at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, “Deep Ecology: Living as if Nature Mattered,” Thousand Oaks vol. 15 no. 2, p. 178-88, June 2002, ProQuest)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The central problem of the dominant worldview living life as "simple in means, rich in ends."</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">C. Gaiomes force us to give up the quest for endless growth and instead transition to a more sustainable way of life</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 11, 2007) Jacome
<span style="background-color: white;">Gaiomes began as a modest….is what it can become.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">D. The plan is key for a localized understanding of ecology – we must embrace permaculture in order to become one with Gaia</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 109-11, 2007) Jacome
<span style="background-color: white;">Permaculture is anti-pharaohnic…to build gaiomes.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">E. Superficial ecological awareness is not enough – we must understand our connection with nature as one being</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Luke 2</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Timothy W., PhD and expert in environmental politics and cultural studies, professor at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, “Deep Ecology: Living as if Nature Mattered,” Thousand Oaks vol. 15 no. 2, pg. 178-88, June 2002, ProQuest)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Arne Naess (1973) first expressed the logic for drawing a sharp distinction during 1972 between "shallow environmentalism" and "deep ecology," which he published in a 1973 article, "The Shallow and the Deep,…</span>__<span style="background-color: white;">regulating its inefficiencies</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Naess, 1989).</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">F. The plan allows us to be more in tune with our ecology and solve its destruction</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 46-47, 2007) Jacome
<span style="background-color: white;">Space exploration has made us….challenges of cosmic evolution.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">G. Extinction of the world becomes inevitable with the current framework for growth – outgrowing earth means that eventually we will outgrow all of space – the plan is key to develop space only after we have properly understood the ecology of earth</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 45, 2007) Jacome
<span style="background-color: white;">If space is ever to achieve…meaningfully with living beyond.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">Contention Three is Solvency:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">A. Near Earth Asteroids would be perfect to pursue – they are easy to reach and perfect for life</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 129, 2007) Jacome
**<span style="background-color: white;">The good news, of course,</span>**…to build a habitat.

**<span style="background-color: white;">B. NEOs are easier to access</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 130-31, 2007) Jacome
<span style="background-color: white;">About 25% of all NEOs…and other life elements.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">C. Gaiomes are capable of sustaining life and are necessary in considering the ecology as a whole</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 139-140, 2007) Jacome
<span style="background-color: white;">At once familiar and…to make a living world.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">D. Gaiomes allow a future away from the exploitation of the status quo</span>**
**Polk 7** – Certified Permaculture Consultant with an Astrophysics degree from Princeton, managed a NASA data center and designed satellite and orbital systems (Kevin Scott, “Gaimoe: Notes on Ecology, Space Travel and Becoming Cosmic Species, p. 237-38, 2007) Jacome
<span style="background-color: white;">With the evolution of human…rejoin the family of life.</span>

==<span style="background-color: white;">HoFlo 1AC </span>== 
**The fantasy that we are the omniscient Masters that can conquer and defeat the violence that permeates our internal order plagues the international system. The ideology and desire of late capitalism and modernity structure this fantasy to overcome and conquer the psychic death drive. This fantasmic desire to overcome the drive produces an endless cycle of error replication because we repeatedly mistarget the sources of conflict and violence. This cycle is an inevitable march toward ultimate destruction.**

**Paradoxically, the drive structures the logic of the international system, yet also poses as the radical possibility to move beyond it. Acknowledging that death is not the mark of humyn finitude allows us to take pleasure in the pain of continually missing our goal. This confrontation with the death drive allows for a radical break beyond this cycle of violence and corruption.**
**Zizek,** Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 19**99**
(Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 293- 297, gjm)
__The lesson of drive is that //we are condemned to jouissance//://…// by the very painful experience of repeatedly missing one’s goal.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 65</span>

**To confront the internal order constituted by the death drive, we must accept the apolitical and destructive logic of the status quo. Any partial embracing of the death drive is underwritten by the desire to avoid authentically confronting it and to violently maintain the ideological fantasies of Truth and Goodness.**
**Zizek,** Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 19**99**
(Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 160-161, gjm)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">In Lacanese,</span> __the subject prior to subjectivization is…it and to impose the direct rule of the Truth and/or Goodness.__

**<span class="tagChar">Continued reliance on an ideology of the Good causes us to project evil onto the enemy other</span>**
**Themi 8** [Tim, Deakin University, Cosmos and History: The Journal of Natural and Social Philosophy,
4.1-2, 2008, http://www.cosmosandhistory.org/index.php/journal/article/view/96/192]
__The goal here is by no means then to …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">some perhaps hinted at self-amusement.[[http://www.cosmosandhistory.org/index.php/journal/article/view/96/192#footnote-58189-54|[54]]]</span>

**We must overcome the nihilism inherent in this denial and manipulation of desire by saying yes to life, rather than being focused on whether we as individuals or a civilization advance, decline, die or live - only this act can serve as an adequate confrontation with the real.**
**Themi 8** [Tim, Deakin University, Cosmos and History: The Journal of Natural and Social Philosophy,
4.1-2, 2008, http://www.cosmosandhistory.org/index.php/journal/article/view/96/192]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">with psychoanalysis</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, rightly or wrongly, such </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">…own volition until it accidentally finishes us!</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should launch all of its offensive space weapons into space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**



**Our politics is a radical and complete over-identification with the system we are confronting. This ultra-orthodoxy allows us to expose the operation of the death drive and confront the desire to conquer the drive – strict adherence to the international ideology of the resolution is this ultra-orthodoxy – engaging in a mechanism of international relations that has so much baggage disturbs our understanding of the fantasy.**
**Zizek 97** (Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, Repeating Lenin, 1997, http://www.lacan.com/replenin.htm)
**//We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This repression of the regime's own excess was … of the global Machine, but as warm passionate persons.</span>**

**Our specific interrogation of how the death drive and the fantasy of defecting this drive manifests itself within the Obama Administration and space policy allows us to untie the ideological knot that holds together the entire international order.**
Zizek, **Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 19**99
**(Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 175-176, gjm)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ridiculous as this notion of the 'typical' may sound, there …</span> __//does// cure by addressing the //sinthome.// . . .__**

**Our radical authentic callbecomes a universal call to expose the violence underlying the entire international order. Attempts to eliminate or isolate parts of our call locks the demand within the apolitical and “safe” space of the particular, which only reproduces the violence and prevents radical solutions. <span style="background-color: white;">Furthermore, our demand creates a particular call that can be written onto the universal struggle against capital.</span>**
Zizek, **Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 19**99
**(Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 204, gjm)**
**__Let us recall the standard example of a…to the dimension beyond particularity.__**

**Our recognition of the death drive abolishes the source of totalitarian temptations – our attempt to articulate a new way of living is the only hope to break away from our violent international order.**
Zizek, **Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 19**99
**(Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 390-391, gjm)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, against this stupid superego injunction to enjoy which increasingly dominates and regulates the perverse universe of our late capitalist experience, </span>__the death drive designates__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the very … of closed order is profoundly misleading. </span>**

**We must not fear the death drive - instead we should acknowledge a distance betweentwo concepts of death - this suspension of attachment to this life allows us to movebeyond the limit of fantasy**
Zizek**99** **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia,The Ticklish Subject, pgs. 145-46, 1999)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to a deep - albeit unexpected - logic, …</span>__two deaths, the domain of the 'undead'.__**

**Finally, the affirmative represents a moment of choice – in the era of post politics you should align yourself with the team that engages the best mechanism for authentic politics – this authenticity is the only mechanism of subjectivity – agency is a misnomer in the negative’s framework – vote affirmative to assure subjectivity - the ultimate impact – we become docile bodies under any other circumstance.**
Zizek 99**(Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, The Ticklish Subject, pgs. 374-75, 1999)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This antinomy can also be formulated as …</span> __and that we have to come to terms with them.__

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em;">NEG CITES</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#NEG CITES-China Currency Politics DA]]<span style="font-size: 1.3em;">[[#NEG CITES-China Currency Politics DA]]**China Currency Politics DA**</span></span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Will pass – bipartisan momentum leading to Senate passage means low risk of House blockage</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Hill 9-30</span>** [“Bipartisan group of senators says China currency bill on a glide path,” 9-30-2011, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/184911-bipartisan-group-of-senators-say-china-currency-bill-on-a-glide-path]]</span>]
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A bipartisan group ...</span>__ the week.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan spends political capital --- Congress opposes space spending</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Powell 9</span>** (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]</span>)
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA supporters are ...**Obama space program.”**</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Political capital is key to block pushing of currency revaluation legislation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Palmer 9-2</span>** [Doug, Journalist, “Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall,” Reuters, Sep 2, 2011,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]]</span>]
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Democrats like ... **to block it.**</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Revaluation legislation sparks the mother of all trade wars undermining global growth</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Carmosky 9-8 [</span>**Janet, Contributor 9/08/2011 “China Bashing Season Officially Kicks Off” Forbes<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/janetcarmosky/2011/09/08/china-bashing-season-officially-kicks-off/]]</span>]
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__**In the past ...**__ **be worth it?**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Econ collapse crushes U.S. foreign policy unleashing a new era of protectionism, increased vulnerability to terrorist threats, power vacuums, a halt in global trade, and nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8</span>** [Aaron, Prof. of Politics and IR at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, senior editor of Commentary, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon, The Dangers of a Diminished America, 10/21,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]</span>]

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With the global ... camel's back.</span>__

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.3em;">**Cybersecurity Politics DA**</span>== 
**Will pass – Senate, White House, and optimism, but political capital is key**
**Nagesh 10/30** (Nagesh,Gutham- The Hill 10/30/11 //House Dem: Senate cybersecurity bill could spur House support// http://thehill.com/blogs/hillicon-valley/technology/190617-house-dem-senate-cybersecurity-bill-could-spur-house-to-act)
Despite the...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> financial institutions.</span>

**Plan spends political capital --- Congress opposes space spending**
**Powell 9** (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html)
NASA supporters...Obama space program.”

**Ineffective cybersecurity erodes competitiveness, collapses the economy, and allows for our enemies to achieve parity**
**CSIS 8** (December, A Report of the CSIS Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency, “Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidency”,http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/081208_securingcyberspace_44.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The evidence is both...is steadily eroding this advantage.</span>

**Econ collapse crushes U.S. foreign policy unleashing a new era of protectionism, increased vulnerability to terrorist threats, power vacuums, a halt in global trade, and nuclear war**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Aaron, Prof. of Politics and IR at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, senior editor of Commentary, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon, The Dangers of a Diminished America, 10/21, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>
With the global financial ... straw that breaks the camel's back.


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.3em;">**Jackson-Vanik Politics DA**</span>== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Obama is pushing a repeal of the Jackson-Vanik Amendment now, which is key to US-Russian relations</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Voice of Russia 11/10</span>** (Obama urges Congress to cancel Jackson-Vanik, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://english.ruvr.ru/2011/11/11/60236896.html]]</span>)
The U.S. President ... __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moscow and Washington</span>__.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. 1. Plan spends political capital --- Congress opposes space spending</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Powell 9</span>** (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]</span>)
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**NASA supporters ...** **Obama space program.”**</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Political capital is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CQ 11</span>** [“Congress Makes 'Reset' With Russia Difficult,” March 11th, L/N]
During his visit, __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span>__ in the coming months.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. 1. Jackson-Vanik destroys US-Russian relations - now is especially key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Miller 11</span>** [Jacqueline McLaren Miller is a senior associate at the EastWest Institute, “The WTO and the Reset,” April 8, 2011,<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset]]</span>]
It took Barack Obama ... __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S.-Russia relationship</span>__.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. US-Russian relations are key to solving every major global problem, including warming - outweighs heg</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Atlantic 8</span>** [November 2008, Medvedev Spoils the Party, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama]]</span>]
Like it or not, __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span>__ future arm in arm.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Warming causes hydrate burps leading to extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Atcheson 4</span>** (John, Geologist at several federal agencies, Baltimore Sun, “Ticking time bomb”, 12-15, Lexis)
The Arctic Council's ...We have to act now.


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Death Drive K</span>== 
**The fantasy that we are the omniscient Masters that can conquer and defeat the violence that permeates our internal order plagues the international system. The ideology and desire of late capitalism and modernity structure this fantasy to overcome and conquer the psychic death drive. This fantasmic desire to overcome the drive produces an endless cycle of error replication because we repeatedly mistarget the sources of conflict and violence. This cycle is an inevitable march toward ultimate destruction.**
**Paradoxically, the drive structures the logic of the international system, yet also poses as the radical possibility to move beyond it. Acknowledging that death is not the mark of humyn finitude allows us to take pleasure in the pain of continually missing our goal. This confrontation with the death drive allows for a radical break beyond this cycle of violence and corruption.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, The Ticklish Subject, pgs. 293- 29, 1999]</span>
**__The lesson of drive...missing one's goal. 65__**

**To confront the internal order constituted by the death drive, we must accept the apolitical and destructive logic of the status quo. Any partial embracing of the death drive is underwritten by the desire to avoid authentically confronting it and to violently maintain the ideological fantasies of Truth and Goodness.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, The Ticklish Subject, pgs. 160- 61, 1999]</span>
**__In Lacanese, the...and/or Goodness.__**

**Recognition of the death drive abolishes the source of totalitarian temptations – our attempt to articulate a new way of living is the only hope to break away from our violent international order.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [Slavoj, </span>Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia, The Ticklish Subject, pgs. 390-91, 1999]
**__On the other...profoundly misleading.__**

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taoism K</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">Death and misfortune are inevitable – the joy of life comes in accepting things as they are – plans to the world only bring more suffering</span>**
Slabbert **<span style="background-color: white;">1</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Dealing with loss...the more damage we will do.</span>


**<span style="background-color: white;">The 1AC’s rationalist attempt to anticipate the effects of policy will fail. Emptying oneself of being is a prerequisite to true understanding.</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Ralph </span>**<span style="background-color: white;">Pettman</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Professor in the School of History, Philosophy, Political Science and International Relations at Victoria University of Wellington, </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">200</span><span style="background-color: white;">5</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (“Taoism And The Concept Of Global Security,” </span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">International Relations of the Asia-Pacific</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 5, Number 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Oxford Journals Online, p. 72-75)</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">How does moving onto...to understand global security.</span>



**<span style="background-color: white;">No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth.</span>**
Kirkland, 98<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Why It Is Wrong to...</span>accepting the new state of things.


**<span style="background-color: white;">Thus, we must forego all action to achieve desired ends.</span>**
Kirkland, 96<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “The Book of the Way,” 24-29, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The Teachings of the...thwart its unceasing operation.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Causality K</span>== 
**The myth of progress will be revealed and all vain attempts to deny its demise will be in vain. Since the age of the Greeks, the concept of “progress” has been based on Euclidean assumptions of perfection and causality, which are hopeless.**
**Goodshare 98** (http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm)
<span class="Underline">The myth of progress is about to take its final plunge...</span> deck chairs on the Titanic.

**Space and Time do not exist independently - non-Euclidean understandings of existence demonstrate that we go around “solving problems”, which are displaced from one subsystem to another.**
**Goodshare 98** (http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm)
What we are currently experiencing… subsection or another decklevel.

**The affirmative trusts rationality beyond our sensory experiences - this denies that all reality is subject to the yin and yang principle: what can ultimately lead to a spring of hope is just as likely to usher in a winter of despair.**
**Goodshare 98** (http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm)
But another western cultural heritage … a reality in which space leaks.

**The affirmative’s efforts to extend life are nothing more than a fear of life itself - it’s no different than exercising or buying a car with airbags - this fear of mortality ends up manifesting itself in environmentalism via the depressing and burdensome drive to preserve the earth as a home for Homo sapiens - this powerful pseudo-purpose ends up eclipsing our natural purpose of living in harmony with nature.**
**Goodshare 98** (http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm)
//*we disagree with the author’s use of gendered language//
The conflict between western ... to waste in the process.

**Vote negative to reclaim the joys of living – the Titanic death spiral of the Western Euclidean paradigm can only be subsumed by ontogenesis, which is the tuning in to our “natural place” in the family of things**
**Goodshare 98** (http://www.goodshare.org/progress.htm)
In our western euclidian paradigm… enveloping nature which IS us.
== == 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.3em;">**Advantage CP Against SPS**</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**The United States federal government should** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**-remove satellites and related aerospace technology from the U.S. Munitions List.**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**- provide all necessary funding and support for the development and implementation of space radar.**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**-develop and deploy orbital space colonies.**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**- develop and implement towers and carbon capture systems with diaminobenzidine and hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene based substances as per design of Kai Landskron.**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**The CP solves the Aerospace advantage:**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**Increase competitiveness and jobs.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**Aerospace Industries Association 11,** the most authoritative and influential trade association representing the nation's leading manufacturers and suppliers of civil, military and business aircraft, helicopters, unmanned aircraft systems, space systems, aircraft engines, homeland and cybersecurity systems, materiel and related components, equipment services and information technology (5/25/11, Satellite Industry Association Industries Association Welcome Proposed Satellite Export Control Reform Amendment” </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;"><span style="color: #215894;">[[@http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.rss.spacewire.html?pid=33654]]</span>) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Washington, D.C., May 25, 2011 - SIA and AIA welcome a...AIA strongly support the passage of this amendment.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**B. Export controls are ineffective and hurt US technology sales.** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**Overly 11,** (3/25/11, Steven, Washington Post, “For the US Satellite Industry Strict Export Controls Cost Market Share” <span style="color: #215894;">[[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/capital_business/for-the-us-satellite-industry-strict-export-controls-cost-market-share/2011/03/25/AFEMJVkB_story.html]]</span>) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">When the defense industry makes...going to lose market share,” he said. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**Lunar and Mars colonization make resupply, landing, and travel near impossible – the compendium of issues means orbital colonies solve best**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**Globus 3** (Al – Senior Research Associate at SJSU/NASA Ames Research Center, BA in Information Science, Editor-in-Chief of NSS Space Settlement Journal, Recipient of the NASA Software of the Year Award, multiple NASA Group Achievement Awards, NASA Public Service Medal, and the NSS Space Pioneer Award, Orbital Space Colonies, Windstorm Creative Full Spectrum Reference Books, “Where Should We Build Space Colonies?,” HYPERLINK "<span style="color: #215894;">[[@http://space.alglobus.net/Basics/where.html]]</span>" <span style="color: #215894;">[[@http://space.alglobus.net/Basics/where.html]]</span>, mrs)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Supply There is a saying "Amateur soldiers...the Moon and Mars later, becomes undeniable.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**Counterplan solves warming – our evidence cites recent scientific studies**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**Marshall and ClimateWire 11**</span> (Christa, August 15, “New “Sponge” Material Could Trap Power Plant Pollution,” <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #215894; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">[[@http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=new-sponge-material-could-trap-power-plant-pollution]]</span>)
In a recent study, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">scientists at...underground to prevent it from reaching the atmosphere</span>, he said.