=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1AC - MICHIGAN</span>= 

**PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS DEVELOPMENT OF EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEMS BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOSPHERE.**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**It is real and anthropogenic, and based on fundamental scientific understanding.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Braganza 6/14** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, AM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In public discussions of climate change, …cause rapid future warming is irrefutable</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Reject climate skeptics--legit scientists side with the aff**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Lewandowsky and Ashley 6/24** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Certainty in science If you ….and thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

**Despite the launch of a new weather satellite, data gaps will still exist**
**Perera 10/10** [ David Perera is senior editor of the FierceMarkets Government Group, “ Degraded weather forecasts a certainty in 2017, says Commerce IG”, http://www.fiercegovernmentit.com/story/degraded-weather-forecasts-certainty-2017-says-commerce-ig/2011-10-10] NPP = NPOESS Preparatory Project

A gap in polar-satellite earth observation ... configured versions of ground system software.



**But, Environmental monitoring systems are collapsing now**
**Parthemore and Rogers, 8/1** — *Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security **has authored a range of publications on energy, climate change, environmental cooperation Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), B.A. in Political Science-International Relations from the University of California, San Diego [Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers “Blinded: the Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security,” 8/1/2011, http://www.cnas.org/node/6715, NL]**
**Networks of satellites, ground-based sensors and ...bolster U.S. climate and environmental data collection capabilities.**

Greenhouse gas reductions are inevitable but won’t be effective without the plan
Kiefer 9/21 **[Dale Kiefer, experienced science writer with a background in biological sciences, “CO2 emissions rising sharply despite cutbacks among industrialised nations”, http://www.earthtimes.org/pollution/co2-emissions-rising-sharply-cutbacks-industrialised-nations/1396/]**

**CO2 emissions rose by 45% between 1990 and 2010, ...have been realised by improving energy efficiency.**

Warming causes disease, destroys biodiversity, and independently causes extinction—outweighs their impacts.
Deibel 7 **– Professor of IR Terry, Prof IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today**
**Finally, there is one major existential threat to ...to the continued existence of life on this planet**


Disease causes extinction
Yu 2009**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [5/22, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, "Human extinction: the uncertainty of our fate", [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A pandemic will kill off …. birds — into a human-viable strain (10).</span>**



Loss of ocean biodiversity causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Craig, 03</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">-</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, (Robin Kundis, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” //McGeorge Law Review// (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving …. the Black Sea is not necessarily unique.</span>**


Warming leads to water scarcity
Blockstein and Wiegman 10. **David E. Blockstein is a Senior Scientist with the National Council for Science and the Environmen, PhD in Ecology from the University of Minnesota. Leo Wiegman, Mayor at Croton-on-Hudson. “The Climate Solutions Consensus: What we Know and What To Do About It” Island Press, 2010.**
**Water Resource Scarcity. With as...them as natural dams. [High confidence]**


Water wars go nuclear
NASCA 06 **(National Association for Scientific & Cultural Appreciation “Water Shortages – Only A Matter Of Time.” http://www.nasca.org.uk/Strange_relics_/water/water.html)**
**Water is one of the prime essentials for life ... a nightmare situation for which there will be no obvious answer.**


Contention two is soft power:
International cooperation over warming will fail due to Obama’s lack of climate leadership.
New York Times 6/22 [**John M. Broder, June 22, 2011, “Gore Criticizes Obama for Record on Climate”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/23/science/earth/23gore.html]**
**Former Vice President Al Gore sharply criticized ... the balance is the future of civilization as we know it.”**

Specifically, plan increases data sharing and coordinates worldwide Earth observation
Wigbels, et al ’08**, Lyn Wigbels, a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program, G. Ryan Faith, program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS., and Vincent Sabathier, a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was a senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf**
**Global change presents a stewardship challenge...in multilateral discussions on Earth observations.**

Soft power key to solve terrorism
Nye 04 (**Harvard University Distinguished Service Professor, and is also the Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations,Joseph, “American power in the 21st Century” pg. 114-15)**
**And the standing of the US ... can and does influence their degree of cooperation.**

Terrorists will attack by 2013
Hall, 10 **(Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, 4/12, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm**
**WASHINGTON — President Obama is asking world ... used in a terrorist attack" by 2013.**

Terrorist attack escalates to nuclear war
Ayson, 10 **[Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld]**
**A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the ... latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.**

Terrorism causes bioterror and disease spread
Dunn et al. 05 **[Mark, Kate Jones, Shaun Phillips, Herald Sun, Lexis]**
**COUNTER-terror authorities have drawn up plans ... a human flu pandemic was possible.**

Bioterrorism leads to extinction
Ochs 02 – **MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]**
**Of all the weapons of mass destruction,...then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.**


Contention 3 is solvency
First, Plan is key to data sets and to ensure compliance with any future climate policy.
Lewis et. al 10 **[James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]**
**There is still a great deal we do not ... understand and more effectively respond to the climate.**

Second, plan creates an international climate regime.
Lewis et. al 10 **[James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]**
**Climate change will have pervasive and unavoidable... the current capability shortfall is eliminated.**

Third, Plan boosts soft power. U.S. action is key
Neil 2006 **[Ross M. Neil, Policy Advisor, Intergovernmental and International Affairs Division. Environment Canada, Pacific and Yukon Region, Canada, “Space Technologies for Global Environmental Governance: Transitions in Thinking, Diffusions of Power”, in “Global Cooperation: challenges and opportunities in the 21st century”, Sai Felicia Krishna-Hensel, ed., pp. 47-50]**

**Space-based environmental monitoring is becoming a global ... and in the future accepted uses of outer space.**

U.S. action is key to solve warming—only we have the satellites
Lewis et. al 10** [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

The need for information has never been greater, ...Earth’s gravity field that can provide important climate data.

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1AC - NILES WEST</span>= 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS DEVELOPMENT OF EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEMS BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOSPHERE.</span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Contention one is warming:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**It is real and anthropogenic, and based on fundamental scientific understanding.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Braganza 6/14** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, AM)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In public discussions of climate change, …cause rapid future warming is irrefutable</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Media skepticism and denier research should be rejected—they are paid off and don’t write in peer reviewed scientific journals. A consensus of climate scientists side with the aff.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Lewandowsky and Ashley 6/24** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Certainty in science If you ….and thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**An overwhelming scientific consensus says it is anthropogenic.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Plumer 8/23**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Brad Plumer, associate editor at The New Republic and writer at the New York Times, “Despite Rick Perry, consensus on climate change keeps strengthening”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/despite-rick-perry-consensus-on-climate-change-keeps-strengthening/2011/08/23/gIQAMT3UZJ_blog.html] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It’s not a tricky argument to dismiss. ….not as bad as previously expected.’”(Credit for the links goes to Climate Progress’s Joe Romm.)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Warming triggers disease spread, destroys biodiversity, and independently causes extincton—it’s the only existential risk.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Deibel 7** – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor of IR Terry, Prof IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finally, there is one major existential threat ….continued existence of life on this planet</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Disease causes extinction**</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> **Yu 2009**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [5/22, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, "Human extinction: the uncertainty of our fate", [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]]]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A pandemic will kill off …. birds — into a human-viable strain (10).</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 90%;">**Loss of ocean biodiversity causes extinction**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"><span style="font-size: 90%;">Craig, 03</span>-</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, (Robin Kundis, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” //McGeorge Law Review// (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving …. the Black Sea is not necessarily unique.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**But, environmental monitoring systems are collapsing now—satellites must be replaced.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Parthemore and Rogers, 8/1** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">— </span>*Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security **has authored a range of publications on energy, climate change, environmental cooperation Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), B.A. in Political Science-International Relations from the University of California, San Diego <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers “Blinded: the Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security,” 8/1/2011, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.cnas.org/node/6715</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, NL]</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Networks of satellites, ground-based sensors and …. U.S. climate and environmental data collection capabilities.</span>**



We solve for three reasons:

First is data—monitoring is a prerequisite to any effective warming regime—it allows for critical data sets and ensures compliance.

Lewis et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is still a great deal we do not know about the local and global effects of climate change. Several recent studies identified gaps and weaknesses in climate science activities. </span><span class="Underline">One of the main conclusions of this research is that climate science to </span>date has been ….effectively respond to the climate.</span>**


Second is political action— monitoring is key to national climate policy.

Lewis et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">On a national level, the United States …. the information that we currently collect.</span>**


Third is international efforts—the plan paves the way for an international climate regime centered around US leadership.

Lewis et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Climate change will have pervasive and …. the current capability shortfall is eliminated.</span>**


A 1% risk of solvency justifies action.

Strom, 2007

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246]</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Keep in mind that the current …. The time for action is now.</span>**
Contention two is soft power:

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Specific international cooperation over warming will fail due to Obama’s lack of climate leadership.</span>
New York Times 6/22**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [John M. Broder, June 22, 2011, “Gore Criticizes Obama for Record on Climate”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/23/science/earth/23gore.html]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Former Vice President Al Gore sharply …. the future of civilization as we know it.”</span>**

The plan rectifies this problem by boosting Obama’s credibility and increasing soft power
Wigbels, et al ’08,**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">G. Ryan Faith, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS., </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and Vincent Sabathier, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was a senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Global change presents a stewardship …. multilateral discussions on Earth observations.</span>**

Soft power allows the U.S. to combat Iranian proliferation
Chubin, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Shahram Chubin is a nonresident senior associate in the Carnegie Nuclear Policy Program. Based in Geneva, Chubin’s research focuses on nonproliferation, terrorism, and Middle East security issues, “A Grand Bargain with Iran”, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/03/23/grand-bargain-with-iran/2tp] </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If strategy is the alignment of means and ends, …. home by ensuring continual crises abroad.</span>**

Iran will nuclearize in a few months
Schmitt 8/23**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Gary Schmitt is the director of the Program on Advanced Strategic Studies at AEI and the director of AEI's program on American citizenship. “Iran: Closer to Nuclear Weapons than Most Assume?”, http://blog.american.com/2011/08/iran-much-closer-to-nuclear-weapons-than-most-assume/] </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;"> While the news of the day has been …. assessment of Iran’s uranium enrichment efforts.” </span>**

That causes proliferation which ends in nuclear war.
Wimbush, 2007 **<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[S. Enders, senior fellow at Hudson Institute and director of its Center for Future Security Strategies, “The End of Deterrence: A nuclear Iran will change everything”, 1-11, http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/013/154auoqp.asp?pg=1] </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Iran is fast building its position …. deterrence, once broken, cannot be restored.</span>**

Contention 3 is solvency
Only federal action solves
Lewis et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">T</span>he need for information has never …. that can provide important climate data.</span>**

Historically, privatization fails
Wigbels et. al, 08** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lyn Wigbels, G. Ryan Faith, and Vincent Sabathier ‘8 CSIS “EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE” 7/14/08</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Vincent G. Sabathier is a senior fellow and director of the Human Space Exploration Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C, a senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, from 2004-2009 he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications. Ryan Faith is program manager for the Human Space Exploration Initiative at CSIS. Lyn Wigbels is a former assistant director for international programs at the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) program. </span>
There are many effective public-…. both the private and public sector needs.