**<span style="color: #961212;">For cites and other stuff, email Fiona at [[mailto:fliu7598@bths.edu|fliu7598@bths.edu]]</span>**
----

**(This is the most recent version of the narrative. It is subject to change)**
Society is unable to see the epistemology
Of the white supremacist ontology
Rooted in the community
We’re all caged
Im enraged
Using hiphop as the way we engage
Even in a world where “all men are created equal”
It doesn’t matter cuz its only for the good of white people
This debate starts as the basis for our might
A new fight
A deconstruction of the normative “light”
The hypersexualized asian male spitting rhymes
The discourse of the times
If silence is good, then I will commit a crime.
I’m not Caucasian, I’m an Asian
Using the language of the street.
Against the system of oppression that we meet.


**Observation one: the space we see**
**Space is the unknown that offers the potential of unlimited benefits, a chance to start over once we have exhausted the possibilities of exploitation that are harnessed within our grasp. White Supremacy is the unknown that is BEYOND the earth’s mesosphere where even philosophy is painted one of the “whitest” of the humanities. We advocate for a RACIAL contract that connects with mainstream theory and uses the vocabulary and apparatus DEVELOPED for contractarianism to map this unacknowledged system.**
MILLS Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago 1997
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3

White Supremacy is the unnamed political system .... of our times.


**There was a time and place in history when all the minorities in America stood together side by side as one to deconstruct white supremacy. It was through the myths constructed by white supremacy against Asian Americans that turned us against each other and destroyed the movement. An identification of the Asian identity in the deconstruction of white supremacy is necessary, otherwise activists of mainstream political discourse will “divide and conquer” populations.**

JALAN A Journal of Asian Liberation 2008
By the Editors-; On the Origins of Anti-Asian Racism and How We Have Fought Back; JALAN, Sept. 21;
http://jalanjournal.org/2008/09/asians-against-white-supremacy/
The 1965 immigration .... working class struggle.


**History shows us that White Supremacy in the past has constructed racist ideologies to justify oppression towards Asians. The “yellow peril” myth led to hundreds of thousands of innocent Japanese Americans to be needlessly detained, and ultimately led to murder, violence, and hate crimes toward Asian Americans that still continue to today. And yet America still lives under the impression that there are no oppression towards Asian Americans.**
KIM Asst Prof of Sociology @ Loyola Marymount Univ. 2009
Nadia-; http://www.racismreview.com/blog/author/nadia/
“It’s just humor!” ... experience no racism lives on.






**This year we face a topic that revolves beyond the Earth’s mesosphere; beyond the solar system; however, we still confront discussions of: Advantage One: Economy, Advantage Two: Preservation of the Human Race, Advantage Three U.S. Hegemony. All of the advantages that are repeated every year continue to bring privilege to individuals in institutions such as debate. The result is discussions of ways to preserve civil society, while completely ignoring the indigenous perspectives. Beyond these discussions lies another about the realm of expanses the dominant and construction of white political philosophy. Ideas that continue physiological slavery, colonization of the mind, body, and spaces that we interact in.**

**Observation Two: Metaphorical State of Space**

**Therefore, the USFG should increase its space exploration and/or development beyond the Earth’s Mesosphere just like the decision-makers that represent our country should open up the pedagogical possibilities that go beyond the limits of the current structures of knowledge.**

**By doing so, Fiona and I affirm our Asian identities though hiphop to critically examine and expose the embedded political system of white supremacy.**
**A continuation of the epistemology of ignorance results in two impacts, affecting us at a local and worldwide perspective.**

**a) The Racial Contract was and is used to justify discrimination that caused the largest acts of genocide in history.**
MILLS Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago 1997
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 98-102
Correspondingly,... tool or as war trophy.

b) **Once white supremacy is recognized as the main political system in society, we can begin to take steps to revolutionize the debate community by making it more polycultural. Otherwise, the debate community will risk extinction.**
Valdivia-Sutherland, Professor at Butte Community College, 98
Cynthia, “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensics Programs,” National Communication Association’s 84th Annual Meeting.
It has.... multiculturalism.


**OBERVATION THREE: OUR DISCOURCE**
**OUR HIPHOP IS USED AS A MEDIUM TO REPRESENT OUR DISCOURCE IN THIS DEBATE AS THE BEST WAY IN WHICH WE ARE ABLE TO DEBATE FROM OUR POINT OF POWER. WE EMBRACE OUR IDENTITIES AS ASIAN HIPHOPPAS WHO LOCALIZE OURSELVES WITHIN OUR MOVEMENT TO BECOME THE EPITOME OF DECONSTRUCTION. WE BECOME HIPHOP.**
**Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional power while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of hiphop, personal experiences, and organic intellectuals within debate makes alternative forms of knowledge production legitimate and checks the homogenizing function of 'expert' discourse.**
Reid-Brinkley ‘8 [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83]

The process of signifyin’ ... by the status of oppression.


**The production of knowledge and awareness is not just a comprehension of knowledge but a relation and acceptance of information into one’s identity: this highlights the difference between understanding and overstanding. A true hiphoppa does limit herself to preaching, but to apply that in her discourse.**
KRS One in 9 (teacha, philosopher, activist, author, lecturer, and emcee) The Gospel of Hiphop : First Instrument p. 172-175
In all things seek the deeper meaning. ... gospel in real life.


**Overstanding is achieved while performing life: from the learning experience and collective wisdom of both material and experiential knowledge. Overstanding means an understanding of the origins of knowledge in order to produce a final result: peace, compassion, and justice.**
KRS One in 9 (teacha, philosopher, activist, author, lecturer, and emcee) The Gospel of Hiphop : First Instrument p 172-125
Joy is an effect of overstanding. ... stock of the former.

----