Email: [[mailto:epdebateteam@gmail.com|epdebateteam@gmail.com]]

Email BBQ for Aff questions - sailamerbbq@gmail.com 
Email Amy for Neg - amytan12345@gmail.com

[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC GPS (Glenbrooks)== 

1ac Plan Text

PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD INCREASE ITS FUNDING FOR THE GPS III PROGRAM TO THE LEVEL OF THE PRESIDENT’S REQUEST FOR FY2012 BUDGET.

1ac Inherency

CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY

Congress cut funding for GPS iii development and procurement

National Executive Committee 10/3 (“Fiscal Year 2012 Program Funding,” 10/3/11, National Executive Committee for Space-Based PNT, [[http://www.pnt.gov/policy/legislation/funding/2012.shtml]])

On June 14, the House Appropriations Committee passed a defense appropriations bill (H.R. 2219) that would cut GPS IIIB development by $50 million in FY 2012 due to "excess to need" (view source) and cut Next Generation Operational Control System (OCX) development by $48 million due to "slow execution" (view source), while adding $40 million to GPS IIF procurement for "production support" (view source). The bill would also rescind (take back) $122.5 million in FY 2011 advance procurement funds for GPS III satellites -- the entire amount requested and already appropriated for this activity (view source). On September 15, the Senate Appropriations Committee passed their version of H.R. 2219 with cuts of $40 million for GPS III advance procurement due to "Advance Procurement Addressed by Prior Reprogramming" (view source) and $24 million for OCX development due to "Directorate support—reduction to growth" (view source).

And, Cuts devastate GPS III budget

Gibbons 11 (“The Fire Next Time,” Glen, Editor and Publisher of Inside GNSS, managing partner of Gibbons Media & Research LLC, July/August 2011, [[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2709]])

Common interests abound, and I’m not just referring to the RF issues that fuel the present furor. Already, some in Congress seem to be toying with the idea of requiring receiver standards that could include GPS products. In the great national deficit debate, program budgets are often laid waste — this year congressional committees have already whacked FY12 funds for GPS III and OCX space and ground segment modernization.

1ac Advantage One

CONTENTION TWO IS GPS CONSTELLATION

GPS constellation on the brink – cuts push inventory below key threshold of 24 satellites

Divis 11 (“Looming Budget Hurricane Could Swamp the GPS Landscape,” Inside GNSS, Dee Ann Divis, assistant managing news editor of the Washington Examiner, September/October 2011, [[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2753]])

The squeeze comes just as the GPS program is facing an inventory of aging satellites. Even before the budgetary problems arose, explained a source familiar with the program, the current constellation was expected to shrink to as few as 24 to 26 satellites by 2015 to 2017. Projections suggest it might not be possible to bring the constellation back to its current strength until 2018 or 2019 — perhaps even later. This possibility of a shrinking constellation and a degradation of service is what most concerned those who spoke to Washington View. A level of 24 spacecraft plus three spares is needed, they said to maintain the level of accuracy and availability users now enjoy and to meet homeland and national security requirements

And, 2012 budget key – even 1 year delay ensures GPS constellation collapse below operational requirements

GAO 10 (“Global Positioning System: Challenges in Sustaining and Upgrading Capabilities Persist,” Report to the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, Government Accounting Office, September 2010, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10636.pdf]])

Excluding random failures, the operational life of a GPS satellite tends to be limited by the amount of power that its solar arrays can produce. This power level declines over time as the solar arrays degrade in the space environment until eventually they cannot produce enough power to maintain all of the satellite’s subsystems. The effects of this power loss can be mitigated somewhat by actively managing satellite subsystems—shutting them down when they are not needed—thereby reducing the satellite’s overall consumption of power. The Air Force currently employs this approach—referred to as current management—to extend the life of GPS satellites. According to the Air Force, it would also be possible to significantly reduce a satellite’s consumption of power and further extend the life of its PNT mission by shutting off a second payload on a GPS satellite once the satellite could not generate enough power to support both the missions. Shutting off the second payload once the satellite cannot support both missions—known as power management—would further mitigate the impact of a delay in GPS III. However, the impact is limited to increasing the predicted size of the constellation by about 1 satellite. For example, if the GPS III program were delayed by 1 year, the guaranteed size of the constellation (at the 95 percent confidence level) would decline to about 21 satellites by fiscal year 2017 if current management were employed and to about 22 satellites if power management were employed. See figure 5 for details. If the GPS III program were delayed by 2 years, the guaranteed size of the constellation (at the 95 percent confidence level) would decline to about 18 satellites by fiscal year 2018 if current management were employed and to about 19 satellites if power management were employed. See figure 6 for details.

SCENARIO ONE IS CROPS

GPS operation key to precision agriculture and crop efficiency

GPS.gov 11 (“Agriculture,” National Coordination Office for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing, [[http://www.gps.gov/applications/agriculture/]])

Precision agriculture is now changing the way farmers and agribusinesses view the land from which they reap their profits. Precision agriculture is about collecting timely geospatial information on soil-plant-animal requirements and prescribing and applying site-specific treatments to increase agricultural production and protect the environment. Where farmers may have once treated their fields uniformly, they are now seeing benefits from micromanaging their fields. Precision agriculture is gaining in popularity largely due to the introduction of high technology tools into the agricultural community that are more accurate, cost effective, and user friendly. Many of the new innovations rely on the integration of on-board computers, data collection sensors, and GPS time and position reference systems. Many believe that the benefits of precision agriculture can only be realized on large farms with huge capital investments and experience with information technologies. Such is not the case. There are inexpensive and easy-to-use methods and techniques that can be developed for use by all farmers. Through the use of GPS, GIS, and remote sensing, information needed for improving land and water use can be collected. Farmers can achieve additional benefits by combining better utilization of fertilizers and other soil amendments, determining the economic threshold for treating pest and weed infestations, and protecting the natural resources for future use. GPS equipment manufacturers have developed several tools to help farmers and agribusinesses become more productive and efficient in their precision farming activities. Today, many farmers use GPS-derived products to enhance operations in their farming businesses. Location information is collected by GPS receivers for mapping field boundaries, roads, irrigation systems, and problem areas in crops such as weeds or disease. The accuracy of GPS allows farmers to create farm maps with precise acreage for field areas, road locations and distances between points of interest. GPS allows farmers to accurately navigate to specific locations in the field, year after year, to collect soil samples or monitor crop conditions. Crop advisors use rugged data collection devices with GPS for accurate positioning to map pest, insect, and weed infestations in the field. Pest problem areas in crops can be pinpointed and mapped for future management decisions and input recommendations. The same field data can also be used by aircraft sprayers, enabling accurate swathing of fields without use of human “flaggers” to guide them. Crop dusters equipped with GPS are able to fly accurate swaths over the field, applying chemicals only where needed, minimizing chemical drift, reducing the amount of chemicals needed, thereby benefiting the environment. GPS also allows pilots to provide farmers with accurate maps. Farmers and agriculture service providers can expect even further improvements as GPS continues to modernize. In addition to the current civilian service provided by GPS, the United States is committed to implementing a second and a third civil signal on GPS satellites. The first satellite with the second civilian signal was launched in 2005. The new signals will enhance both the quality and efficiency of agricultural operations in the future.

And, GPS key to crop yields – consistency and accuracy

USARF 11 (USA Rice Federation, Western Farm Press, “GPS dependability vital to agriculture”, August 10, 2011, [[http://westernfarmpress.com/government/gps-dependability-vital-agriculture]], BBQ)

USA Rice Federation and 12 other agricultural and agribusiness organizations whose members are engaged in global positioning system (GPS) dependent precision agricultural practices or who service the technology wrote to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to urge the agency not to permit a corporate wireless network modification until it can be clearly demonstrated that no interference to GPS will occur as a result of the proposed change. "While our members support the development of wireless broadband services in rural America, we are deeply concerned that [the] proposed network will cause unacceptable interference to signals from the Global Positioning System (GPS)," coalition members said. GPS has been a boon to precision agriculture and the environment. "With the chronically uncertain future of agricultural production, growers cannot afford to lose dependable, consistent access to GPS technology and the benefit it provides," the groups said. Farmers and ranchers have invested heavily to purchase GPS devices for their equipment, making it unreasonable to move forward without knowing the effects of the proposed wireless network modifications on agricultural GPS equipment. Developing and proving the effectiveness of a commercially feasible filtering device for the field is needed, although the cost for such a device is unknown.

And, Reduced crop yields cause World War III

Calvin 98 (William, theoretical neurophysiologist at the University of Washington, ATLANTIC MONTHLY, January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, Vol 281, No. 1, 1998, p. 47)

The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields would cause some powerful countries to try to take over their neighbors or distant lands -- if only because their armies, unpaid and lacking food, would go marauding, both at home and across the borders. The better-organized countries would attempt to use their armies, before they fell apart entirely, to take over countries with significant remaining resources, driving out or starving their inhabitants if not using modern weapons to accomplish the same end: eliminating competitors for the remaining food. This would be a worldwide problem -- and could lead to a Third World War -- but Europe's vulnerability is particularly easy to analyze. The last abrupt cooling, the Younger Dryas, drastically altered Europe's climate as far east as Ukraine. Present-day Europe has more than 650 million people. It has excellent soils, and largely grows its own food. It could no longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.

And, Crop yields key to prevent poverty – shortages, price spikes, unemployment

Khan 01 (Mahmood Hasan, Professor of Economics at Simon Fraser University International Monetary Fund, “Rural Poverty in Developing Countries”, March 2001, [[http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/issues/issues26/index.htm]], BBQ)

Achieving agricultural growth by applying new technologies is one of the most important ways to reduce rural poverty. The impact of such efforts on the rural poor, however, depends on initial conditions, the structure of relevant institutions, and incentives. Research shows that agricultural stagnation has harmed the rural poor in sub-Saharan Africa by creating food shortages and higher prices that have reduced their ability to buy food and find work. Conversely, experience with the Green Revolution showed that rapid agricultural progress made a big difference in reducing rural poverty in parts of South Asia. Researchers have found that higher crop yields reduce both the number of rural poor and the severity of rural poverty. But these effects are strong only if certain conditions are met:

And, Poverty is an ongoing thermonuclear war against the poor – outweighs your one shot scenario

Gilligan 96 (James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, "Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes", p. 191-196)

The deadliest form of violence is poverty. You cannot work for one day with the violent people who fill our prisons and mental hospitals for the criminally insane without being forcible and constantly reminded of the extreme poverty and discrimination that characterizes their lives. Hearing about their lives, and about their families and friends, you are forced to recognize the truth in Gandhi's observation that the deadliest form of violence is poverty. Not a day goes by without realizing that trying to understand them and their violent behavior in purely individual terms is impossible and wrong-headed. Any theory of violence, especially a psychological theory, that evolves from the experience of men in maximum security prisons and hospitals for the criminally insane must begin with the recognition that these institutions are only microcosms. They are not where the major violence in our society takes place, and the perpetrators who fill them are far from being the main causes of most violent deaths. Any approach to a theory of violence needs to begin with a look at the structural violence in this country. Focusing merely on those relatively few men who commit what we define as murder could distract us from examining and learning from those structural causes of violent death that are for more significant from a numerical or public health, or human, standpoint. By "structural violence" I mean the increased rates of death, and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted with the relatively low death rates experienced by those who are above them. Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of class structure; and that structure itself is a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting "structural" with "behavioral violence," by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on. Structural violence differs from behavior violence in at least three major respects. The lethal effects of= structural violence operate continuously, rather than sporadically, whereas murders, suicides, executions, wars, and other forms of behavioral violence occur one at a time. *Structural violence operates more or less independently of individual acts; independent of individuals and groups (politicians, political parties, voters) whose decisions may nevertheless have lethal consequences for others. *Structural violence is normally invisible, because it may appear to have had other (natural or violent) causes. The finding that structural violence causes far more deaths than behavioral violence does is not limited to this country. Kohler and Alcock attempted to arrive at the number of excess deaths caused by socioeconomic inequities on a worldwide basis. Sweden was their model of the nation that had come closest to eliminating structural violence. It had the least inequity in income and living standards, and the lowest discrepancies in death rates and life expectancy; and the highest overall life expectancy of the world. When they compared the life expectancies of those living in the other socioeconomic systems against Sweden, they found that 18 million deaths a year could be attributed to the "structural violence" to which the citizens of all the other nations were being subjected. During the past decade, the discrepancies between the rich and poor nations have increased dramatically and alarmingly. The 14 to 19 million deaths a year caused by structural violence compare with about 100,000 deaths per year from armed conflict. Comparing this frequency of deaths from structural violence to the frequency of those caused by major military and political violence, such as World War II (an estimated 49 million military and civilian deaths, including those by genocide – or about eight million per year, 1939-1945), the Indonesian massacre of 1965-66 (perhaps 575,000 deaths), the Vietnam war (possibly two million, 1954-1973), and even a hypothetical nuclear exchange between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. (232 million), it is clear that even war cannot begin to compare with structural violence, which continues year after year. In other words, every fifteen years, on the average, as many people die because of relative poverty as would be killed by the Nazi genocide of the Jews over a six-year period. This is, in effect, the equivalent of an ongoing, unending, and accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide, perpetrated on the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world. Structural violence is also the main cause of behavioral violence on a socially and epidemiologically significant scale (from homicide and suicide to war and genocide). The question as to which of the two forms of violence – structural or behavioral – is more important, dangerous, or lethal is moot, for they are inextricably related to each other, as cause to effect.

SCENARIO TWO IS POWER GRIDS

GPS operation vital to power grid distribution

GAO 10 (“Global Positioning System: Challenges in Sustaining and Upgrading Capabilities Persist,” Report to the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, Government Accounting Office, September 2010, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10636.pdf]])

GPS began operations with a full constellation of satellites in 1995. Over time, GPS has become vital to military operations and a ubiquitous infrastructure underpinning major sections of the economy, including telecommunications, electrical power distribution, banking and finance, transportation, environmental and natural resources management, agriculture, and emergency services. GPS is used by all branches of the military to guide troop movements, integrate logistics support, enable components underlying battlespace situational awareness, and synchronize communications networks. In addition, U.S. and allied munitions are guided to their targets by GPS signals and GPS is used to locate military personnel in distress. Civil agencies, commercial firms, and individuals use GPS and GPS augmentations to accurately navigate from one point to another. Commercial firms use GPS and GPS augmentations to route their vehicles, as do maritime industries and mass transit systems. In addition to navigation, civil departments and agencies and commercial firms use GPS and GPS augmentations to provide high-accuracy, three-dimensional positioning information in real time for use in surveying and mapping and other location-based services. The aviation community worldwide uses GPS and GPS augmentations to increase the safety and efficiency of flight. GPS and GPS augmentations are also used by the agricultural community for precision farming, including farm planning, field mapping, soil sampling, tractor guidance, and crop scouting; the natural resources management community uses GPS for wildfire management and firefighting, pesticide and herbicide control, and watershed and other natural resources asset management. GPS is increasingly important to earth observation, which includes operational roles in weather prediction, the measurement of sea level change, monitoring of ocean circulation, and mitigation of hazards caused by earthquakes and volcanoes. GPS helps companies and governments place satellites in precise orbits, and at correct altitudes, and helps monitor satellite constellation orbits. The precise time that GPS broadcasts is crucial to economic activities worldwide, including communication systems, electrical power grids, and financial networks.

And, GPS key to voltage control, current distribution, and syncing power grid

Erickson 05 (Dennis C., GPS World, December 1, 2005, “Strengthening the Power Grid”, [[http://www.gpsworld.com/gnss-system/strengthening-power-grid-1013]], BBQ)

Of all the responsibilities associated with modern society’s infrastructure, few are as important as keeping the electric power grid healthy and functional. To do this requires the accurate measurement of the voltage and current on generation, transmission and distribution lines, and buses. These measurements are necessary for controlling, protecting, scheduling, operating, maintaining, and planning of the power network as well as billing customers correctly. For many power-system applications, these measurements must be time tagged to within microseconds of absolute time using GPS transmissions. In 1996 on the West Coast and again in 2003 on the East Coast, two costly wide-area power grid blackouts cost society at total of at least $10 billion and disrupted the lives of millions. What can be done to prevent or at the least minimize these disastrous events depends on what we do with these measurements to provide timely and cost-effective solutions. Time and frequency reference systems such as GPS and five other enabling technological advances of late have, when tightly integrated, the potential of enhancing and lowering overall power system costs. At present, a GPS receiver is the most efficient and universally accepted time source used at power system measurement sites. Knowing the relative phase angle of the voltages and currents in a particular region enables the instantaneous computation of the active and reactive power, which can be used in billing, protective relaying, and system-calming control algorithms. The timely acquisition and dissemination of wide-area power system quantities to centralized sites is believed to be absolutely essential in managing the quality, security, and stability of large power system grids. Other important timing techniques arriving include the use of deterministic communication techniques, which can provide wide-area time synchronizing of all data sources to a fixed and stable delay (within microseconds or less) using Ethernet protocols.

And, Power grid failure causes meltdowns

Smith 2k (Gar Earth Island Journal, winter, environmental journalist proquest)

The third type could happen if the electricity fails. Reactors depend on off-site electric power to run cooling systems and control rooms, with emergency diesel generators for automatic backup. Unfortunately, according to Olsen, even in the US these generators are "not even 90 percent reliable." In the US, most local emergency officials are planning for three weeks without power. But diesel generators often overheat and usually are not operated for weeks at a time. Many generators also have digital components that may be subject to Y2K failure. "It takes only two hours without the cooling system functioning for reactor fuel to melt," Olsen says. Power failures also could cause "a meltdown of nuclear fuel storage pools.... These pools must be cooled for at least five years." Loss of off-site electrical power poses the most prominent risk to nuclear powerplant safety. Reliable back-up power is needed immediately at each nuclear site. Fuel cells and gas turbines are more reliable than diesel generators. There are well over 1,000 private utilities, non-utility generators, public utilities, and rural electric cooperatives in the US and Canada operating more than 15,000 generating units. Many will reach the millennium with Y2K issues unresolved. The US electric power grid is fragile. In 1996, two disruptions in one five-week period caused 190 generating stations (including several nuclear reactors) to shut down. On August 10, 1996, a sagging tree limb in Oregon caused a short that caused a blackout in California, Arizona and New Mexico. Millions of people were left without power. In some regions, the blackout lasted several weeks. MRS notes that increasingly severe winter storms have caused power outages in the eastern US in recent years. Such wintertime power failures "could lead to extended blackouts and resultant nuclear catastrophes." The NIRS has petitioned the NRC to require all nuclear power stations to stockpile a 20-day supply of fuel for diesel generators. Batteries charged by solar cells, windmills, hydroelectric or geothermal energy would give the greatest assurance of long-term stability

And, Extinction

Wasserman 02 (Harvey, Free Press Senior Editor, Earth Island Institute, “Nuclear Power and Terrorism,” Spring, http://earthisland.org/journal/index.php/eij/article/nuclear_power_and_terrorism/)

As US bombs and missiles began to rain on Afghanistan, the certainty of terror retaliation inside the US has turned our 103 nuclear power plants into potential weapons of apocalyptic destruction, just waiting to be used against us. One or both planes that crashed into the World Trade Center on September 11 could have easily obliterated the two atomic reactors now operating at Indian Point, about 40 miles up the Hudson River. Indian Point Unit One was shut long ago by public outcry. But Units 2 and 3 have operated since the 1970s. Reactor containment domes were built to withstand a jetliner crash but today's jumbo jets are far larger than the planes that were flying in the 1970s. Had one of those hijacked jets hit one of the operating reactors at Indian Point, the ensuing cloud of radiation would have dwarfed the ones at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Three Mile Island and Chernobyl. The intense radioactive heat within today's operating reactors is the hottest anywhere on the planet. Because Indian Point has operated so long, its accumulated radioactive burden far exceeds that of Chernobyl. The safety systems are extremely complex and virtually indefensible. One or more could be wiped out with a small aircraft, ground-based weapons, truck bombs or even chemical/biological assaults aimed at the work force. A terrorist assault at Indian Point could yield three infernal fireballs of molten radioactive lava burning through the earth and into the aquifer and the river. Striking water, they would blast gigantic billows of horribly radioactive steam into the atmosphere. Thousands of square miles would be saturated with the most lethal clouds ever created, depositing relentless genetic poisons that would kill forever. Infants and small children would quickly die en masse. Pregnant women would spontaneously abort or give birth to horribly deformed offspring. Ghastly sores, rashes, ulcerations and burns would afflict the skin of millions. Heart attacks, stroke and multiple organ failure would kill thousands on the spot. Emphysema, hair loss, nausea, inability to eat or drink or swallow, diarrhea and incontinence, sterility and impotence, asthma and blindness would afflict hundreds of thousands, if not millions. Then comes the wave of cancers, leukemias, lymphomas, tumors and hellish diseases for which new names will have to be invented. Evacuation would be impossible, but thousands would die trying. Attempts to quench the fires would be futile. More than 800,000 Soviet draftees forced through Chernobyl's seething remains in a futile attempt to clean it up are still dying from their exposure. At Indian Point, the molten cores would burn uncontrolled for days, weeks and years. Who would volunteer for such an American task force? The immediate damage from an Indian Point attack (or a domestic accident) would render all five boroughs of New York City an apocalyptic wasteland. As at Three Mile Island, where thousands of farm and wild animals died in heaps, natural ecosystems would be permanently and irrevocably destroyed. Spiritually, psychologically, financially and ecologically, our nation would never recover. This is what we missed by a mere 40 miles on September 11. Now that we are at war, this is what could be happening as you read this. There are 103 of these potential Bombs of the Apocalypse operating in the US. They generate a mere 8 percent of our total energy. Since its deregulation crisis, California cut its electric consumption by some 15 percent. Within a year, the US could cheaply replace virtually all the reactors with increased efficiency.

SCENARIO THREE IS MALARIA

GPS key to eradicate malaria and control outbreaks

Saxena et al 09 (“Application of spatial technology in malaria research & control: some new insights,” Rekha, National Institute of Malaria Research, Indian Journal of Medical Research, [[http://www.icmr.nic.in/ijmr/2009/august/0904.pdf]])

GIS is defined as an information system that is used to input, store, retrieve, manipulate, analyze and output geographically referenced data or spatial data. All methods of collecting information about earth without touching it are forms of remote sensing. Satellites, radars and aerial photographs are the different ways of acquiring remotely sensed data. GPS is a system of twenty-four satellites that allows the co-ordinates of any point on or near earth’s surface to be measured with extremely high precision 3. GIS is an umbrella term which integrates wide range of datasets available from different sources including RS and GPS. Therefore, GIS is often termed as core of spatial technology having built-in power to analyze integrated dataset and to present the results as useful information to assist decision making. This article attempts to present the technology of GIS and its functionalities with regard to applications in malaria research and control during the last decade. The research articles have been grouped into six categories according to the usage of the technology. Spatial data sources, mapping and geo-processing tools, distance calculation, digital elevation model (DEM), model, buffer zone, and geo-statistical analysis have been investigated in detail, illustrated with examples as per the derived results. Finally, a conclusion is drawn incorporating various aspects of malaria epidemiology covered by different tools and future prospects for better decision support. GIS in malaria research and control (i) Spatial data sources: Epidemiology of vectorborne diseases is changing fast with the availability of data using new methods of spatial data collection like GPS and RS. The GPS has been used mainly for field data collection and remote sensing by means of aerial photographs and satellite imageries has succeeded in providing descriptive climatic and landscape features. RS data in GIS have been used widely for identification, characterization, monitoring, surveillance of breeding habitats and mapping of malaria risk. GIS maps developed from aerial photographs in Dar-esSalaam, Tanzania facilitated efficient larval surveillance and complete coverage of targeted areas with larval control 4. Remote sensing imageries in a GIS was used for identification and characterization of the habitats that produced potential Anopheles vector mosquitoes in the Republic of Korea 5. Integrated use of remote sensing and GIS has been successfully demonstrated in many studies related to mapping of malaria risk in different parts of Africa 6-7. Combined with data from surveillance activities, GIS and GPS are ideal tools for generating base maps, mapping breeding habitats and analysis of areas of high disease prevalence. Mapping of the study site, Mulago III parish - a typical urban slum located in Kampala, the capital of Uganda was done using GPS and GIS to generate a sampling frame for a longitudinal study of malaria incidence and treatment 8. GPS data integrated into a GIS were used to map anopheline larval habitats in the Suba district in Western Kenya 9. GPS recording of the co-ordinates and elevation of anopheline larvae aquatic sites, integrated and mapped using a GIS helped determine An. arabiensis breeding on the Mount Kenya highlands indicating indigenous malaria transmission in the area 10. GPS data of Anopheles sp. breeding sites integrated into the digital map of Ouagadougou, Africa, helped analyze a gradient of endemicity between the urban centre and the periphery 11. (ii) Mapping and geo-processing tools: GIS mapping and geo-processing tools have contributed immensely towards the development of spatial epidemiology of malaria. GIS has enabled data to be geo-referenced, mapped and geo-processed to carry out sophisticated analysis. Geo-processing by means of overlay and intersection has helped in building spatial analysis. Overlay combines two or more map layers within a GIS to create one or more new map layers of new information. Examples have been drawn from the studies done in various countries making use of these spatial features for deriving useful results. GIS-based malaria incidence mapping has been used for risk assessment at national, regional, town and village level. Such mapping is considered crucial for analyzing past as well as present disease trends. Risks maps developed on the basis of mapped malaria incidence are tools for targeted and cost-effective control of disease. Mapping of both Plasmodium vivax and P. falciparum malaria incidence distribution for 8 years (1995-2002) on the islands of Sri Lanka at subdistrict resolution helped in the assessment of malaria risk in the country 12. This mapping was updated for 10 months preceding tsunami in December 2004 to assess the post-disaster malaria situation in Sri Lanka 13. GIS was used to perform a retrospective analysis of malaria case data for the past 37 years and district-wise malaria incidence data for past 6 years to determine the spatial and temporal dynamics of P. falciparum and P. vivax malaria incidence in Thailand 14. GIS was introduced in Mpumalanga province of South Africa to stratify malaria risk on the basis of disease incidence at town and village level 15. Section-wise mapping of malaria incidence from 1991-2001 helped identify malaria receptivity and trends within each paradigm of Mewat district, Haryana, India 16. Many maps of global malaria risk distribution in space and time have been prepared using GIS. Mapping the global distribution of malaria is motivated by a need to define populations at risk for appropriate resource allocation to combat the disease. Hay et al 17 used GIS to overlay historical maps of malaria risk to create a single global distribution map of malaria risk which illustrated range changing from 1900 to 2002. Also overlaying of contemporaneous population surfaces helped quantify changes in the numbers of people living in areas of malaria risk. Snow et al 18 defined the global extent of the clinical episodes caused by P. faliciparum worldwide by combining epidemiological, geographical and demographic data. Guerra et al 19 constructed an evidenced based spatial description of the global distribution of P. falciparum and P. vivax by combing in a GIS several sources of information on malaria risk. Combining these maps with those of human population distribution enabled estimates of the global population at risk of P. falciparum and P. vivax malaria during 2005. A newly launched ‘Malaria Atlas Project (MAP)’ is developing global maps of malaria transmission intensity to identify the distribution of populations at risk on the basis of classified malaria endemicity based on globally generated parasite rate database 20. Spatial analyses using geo-processing tools had assisted in establishing relationship between malaria incidence and other potentially related variables. Such studies are done to identify risk factors for high receptivity. GIS based malaria information management system developed for urban malaria scheme in India ensured that if a localized spurt of the disease occurs, it can be associated rapidly with a likely cause, a specific vector and a probable human source so that appropriate preventive action can be taken to arrest any rising trend

And, GPS key to malaria risks map – prevents mosquitoes from maturing and transmitting disease

Bautista et al 06 (Christian T., Department of Epidemiology and Threat Assessment, U.S. Military HIV Research Program at the Walter Reed Army Institute, Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement Military Medicine , Adeline S. T. Chan, Jeffrey R. Ryan, Carlos Calampa, Marty H. Roper, Allen W. Hightower, Alan J. Magill, The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 2006, [[http://www.ajtmh.org/content/75/6/1216.full.pdf+html]], BBQ)

Recent applications of GIS/GPS in malaria control have been reported in India,25 Madagascar,26,27 and Thailand.28 In India, the objective was to develop a model to assist planning and implementation of a suitable malaria control. The location of disease occurrence and information on specific vectors were analyzed in a GIS permitting the development of appropriate preventive action. In Madagascar, GIS has been applied to detect areas at high-risk for malaria outbreak and used in malaria surveillance with the objective of anticipating areas with a concentrated distribution of An. funestus. Similarly, in Thailand, GIS/GPS have permitted real-time monitoring and forecasting of the distributions of four malaria species so that control measures may be conducted before mosquitoes emerge as adults and transmit disease. In summary, our results show the presence of micro-geographic variations in periods with high or low malaria incidence, and a constant presence of high-risk areas (hot spots) for malaria infection. Results of this study may lead to a reorientation of malaria control where relatively modest, targeted control efforts directed at identified high-risk areas may have significant impacts.29 Future research in a wider variety of communities and the application of new spatial cluster methods are required to better understand the micro-geographic variation of malaria in this region.

And, Biggest guaranteed impact – million deaths per year

WHO 09 (“10 facts on malaria,” World Health Organization, March 09, [[http://www.who.int/features/factfiles/malaria/en/index.html]])

About 3.3 billion people - half of the world's population - are at risk of malaria. Every year, this leads to about 250 million malaria cases and nearly one million deaths. People living in the poorest countries are the most vulnerable.

1ac Advantage Two

CONTENTION THREE IS GPS III

SCENARIO ONE IS NUCLEAR TESTING

GPS III incorporates nuclear detonation detection

Global Security.org no date (“GPS III/GPS Block III,” [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/space/systems/gps_3.htm]])

GPS III enhances U.S. leadership in space-based navigation by meeting the stated Presidential goal of establishing GPS as a world standard. GPS III supports the Federal Radionavigation Plan and will be fully interoperable with all current global radionavigation systems. The GPS III system also incorporates the Nuclear Detonation Detection System (NDS) and provides a potential platform for supporting additional synergistic payloads and services. The Government intends to use an evolutionary development approach. This approach includes using a modular open systems architecture, standard interfaces and protocols, and continuous technology refresh, to incrementally improve system capabilities with a low risk of GPS service interruption.

And, GPS III uniquely key – ionosphere detection

Cozzens 11 (Tracy, August 1, 2011, GPS World, “Detecting Nuclear Testing”, detection, http://www.gpsworld.com/government/remote-sensing/detecting-nuclear-testing-11910, BBQ)

Can GPS be used to detect underground nuclear explosions? A research team is developing a software program that uses GPS to analyze the ionospheric effect of nuclear explosions. Results would show when and where a country has conducted a secret underground nuclear test. Team members are Jihye Park, Ralph. R. B. von Frese, and Dorota A. Grejner-Brzezinska from The Ohio State University and Jade Yu Morton from Miami University. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1996, but not all nuclear countries have ratified it, including the United States, China, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, and Israel. Also, India, North Korea, and Pakistan have not signed the treaty. Park, a doctoral student in geodetic science at Ohio State, created the computer program to detect changes in the ionosphere from nuclear weapons testing. A previous study showed that the ionosphere was disturbed by underground nuclear testing conducted by Russia in 1990. GPS is capable of precisely measuring the total electron content (TEC) of the ionosphere along the path between satellite and receiver at a GPS station, so Park and her team decided to begin researching the use of GPS in detecting nuclear explosions. “Many studies have been done to monitor and model the atmosphere using GPS technology,” Park said. “Research has proven that GPS can detect natural disasters such as earthquakes or tsunamis. This study broadens those areas of study with its capability to detect underground explosions.”Detonation of a nuclear weapon results in a shockwave that travels through the atmosphere, changing the density of charged particles in the ionosphere. “The explosions can’t hide from the ionosphere,” said von Frese, geophysicist and project leader. “Our technology would be another nail in the structure to detect explosions.” “One of the arguments is ‘Well, how do you prove that a clandestine explosion occurred?’” said Grejner-Brzezinska, Park’s adviser and GPS World’s Tech Talk blog editor. “Now we can say, ‘Here, we have the data from GPS to show when and where.’” According to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) nuclear testing has been carried out in the past by the United States, Russia, the United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan, and North Korea (see Figure 1). Researchers, and those monitoring treaty violations, are able to target specific geographic areas that are equipped for tests, since development of a nuclear test site requires a lot of technical effort and budget. For example, the North Korean tests carried out in 2006 and 2009 were very close geographically. “They tend to stick to the same site and reuse their facilities for nuclear testing,” von Frese said. “So a country that has previously conducted underground nuclear testing probably will reuse the site if new testing is needed.” “They could be monitored using GPS as long as there are GPS stations nearby,” Park said. The new GPS nuclear-detection technology was presented at the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization meeting held June 8–10 in Vienna, Austria, and received press coverage that drew additional interest.

That deters nuclear tests

Bell 02 (“Analysis of GPS Satellite Allocation for the United States Nuclear Detonation Detection System” 1st Lt. Aaron Bell, Air Force Institute of Technology, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=3&ved=0CC0QFjAC&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hsdl.org%2F%3Fview%26did%3D3094&ei=jM2TTuyQOoGwsALmh83sBg&usg=AFQjCNGjEpeE14Vyb3uoYTFwri4kYnUdxw&sig2=kMULAk6nGEsStsgoJVw86w]])

The United States maintains a vigilant role in the continued effort to deter and detect nuclear detonations. In 2001, $36.4 million dollars were allocated to monitoring nuclear explosions [DOE National Security R&D Portfolio, 83]. The mission of the United States Nuclear Detonation Detection System (USNDS) is to “provide worldwide, highly survivable capability to detect, characterize, locate and report nuclear detonations and associated data: in earth’s atmosphere and near space, in near real time, and support three national-level missions.”

And, Earth goes Death Star

Chalko 03 (“Can a Neutron Bomb accelerate Global Volcanic Activity?” Tom J. Chalko, MSc, PhD., Head of Geophysics Division, [[http://sci-e-research.com/neutron_bomb.html]])

Consequences of using modern nuclear weapons can be far more serious than previously imagined. These consequences relate to the fact that most of the heat generated in the planetary interior is a result of nuclear decay. Over the last few decades, all superpowers have been developing so-called "neutron bombs". These bombs are designed to emit intensive neutron radiation while creating relatively little local mechanical damage. Military are very keen to use neutron bombs in combat, because lethal neutron radiation can penetrate even the largest and deepest bunkers. However, the military seem to ignore the fact that a neutron radiation is capable to reach significant depths in the planetary interior. In the process of passing through the planet and losing its intensity, a neutron beam stimulates nuclei of radioactive isotopes naturally present inside the planet to disintegrate. This disintegration in turn, generates more neutron and other radiation. The entire process causes increased nuclear heat generation in the planetary interior, far greater than the initial energy of the bomb. It typically takes many days or even weeks for this extra heat to conduct/convect to the surface of the planet and cause increased seismic/volcanic activity. Due to this variable delay, nuclear tests are not currently associated with seismic/volcanic activity, simply because it is believed that there is no theoretical basis for such an association. Perhaps you heard that after every major series of nuclear test there is always a period of increased seismic activity in some part of the world. This observable fact CANNOT be explained by direct energy of the explosion. The mechanism of neutron radiation accelerating decay of radioactive isotopes in the planetary interior, however, is a VERY PLAUSIBLE and realistic explanation. The process of accelerating volcanic activity is nuclear in essence. Accelerated decay of unstable radioactive isotopes already present in the planetary interior provides the necessary energy. The TRUE danger of modern nuclear weaponry is that their neutron radiation is capable to induce global overheating of the planetary interior, global volcanic activity and, in extreme circumstances, may even cause the entire planet to explode.

SCENARIO TWO IS HEG

GPS guarantees operational superiority in all combat

Medlock 08 (“Worldwide Influence of GPS and the Challenges Ahead,” TSgt Theresa A., Lead Specialist Missile Warning Support Element, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

The use of GPS data has provided our military with great advantages since the program’s inception. Its use in military operations, has virtually guaranteed continuous operational superiority in any sea, land, or air environment. At sea, GPS data helps to ensure safe passage of carrier battle groups through the Persian Gulf. On the battlefield, its use enhances combatant commander’s capabilities to direct troop movements. In the air, it allows pilots to easily locate the enemy and ensure on target munitions delivery. All of these applications of GPS have had a great impact on operations that will continue to grow as new technology advances take hold.

And, GPS empirically key to all military operation

DeGryse 08 (“GPS Modernization and the Path Forward: Bringing New Capabilities to Military and Civil Users Worldwide,” Dr. Donald, Vice President Lockheed Martin, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

America and much of the world depend on GPS for accurate position, navigation, and timing (PNT) information and this space-based asset has become essential to the military as well as the public at large. The US armed forces’ ability to successfully execute global operations with great speed and effectiveness is significantly enhanced by the precision location, guidance and navigation capabilities delivered by GPS. Most recently, the system was integral to every military branch in the US-led coalition’s success in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. For example, special forces mounted on horseback in Afghanistan summoned GPS-guided precision air strikes to engage enemy targets with pinpoint accuracy and then used the system to navigate safely back to base. Likewise, in Iraq, GPS demonstrated its value by allowing Air Force pilots to streak through the sky with confidence because they knew exactly where they were and where they needed to go. It would be difficult to fight today’s conflicts without this enabling technology.

And, GPS II has weak signal – GPS III prevent jamming

Hyten 08 (“GPS On and Off the Battlefield: An Interview with Brig Gen John E. Hyten,” High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

Hyten: To me the most important thing GPS III brings is a larger bus, which is the platform of the satellite. It allows you to do additional things. It has more power so it can provide more power to the ground. The GPS signal right now is very weak, GPS III will provide signals that would be hard to interfere with, either accidentally or on purpose. In the future we will have a more robust power system in space. We can then transmit a more powerful signal to the ground. We will have a lot of anti-jam capabilities on those future satellites that will make the system more difficult to jam, more robust, more capable, and will allow us to fight through a lot of different problems that we really can’t do with the previous versions. Our efforts are focused on the warfighter. Most of the new capabilities are designed to provide that ensured navigation and timing signal to warfighters around the world.

And, Jamming coming now – North Korea, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, Russia

Jersusalem Post 11/18 (Yaakov Katz, November 18, 2011, “Security and Defense: In a jam over precision munitions”, [[http://www.jpost.com/Features/FrontLines/Article.aspx?id=246026]], BBQ)

In March, one of the Western world’s worst nightmares came true. The United States and South Korea began their annual joint military exercise, code-named “Foal Eagle,” involving over 10,000 American soldiers and an additional 200,000 South Korean troops. One of the scenarios played out during the drill, simulating a potential military conflict between the two sides of the peninsula in the event that longtime North Korean leader Kim Jong II dies and his son Kim Jong Un is incapable of establishing control, seemed more than realistic. Toward the end of the exercise, global positioning systems started to fail, particularly in areas such as the capital, Seoul and the city of Paju. Most affected were US Tomahawk cruise missiles as well as Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) bomb kits, which are supposed to turn regular bombs into smart bombs and accurate satellite-guided weapons. After a short investigation, South Korean intelligence discovered that North Korea had activated two different systems to jam the satellite signal. The first was a vehicle-mounted device North Korea had purchased from Russia in the early 2000s, which is believed to be capable of jamming GPS signals from 50 to 100 km. away. The second system was a spinoff and upgrade of the Russian system manufactured domestically in North Korea that is believed to cost less but has the ability to jam GPS reception within a radius of 400 km. Israel, which for years has feared and prepared for the possibility that in a future conflict with Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas in the Gaza Strip, Syria or Iran, its GPS systems will fail, followed these developments closely. The Israel Defense Forces has already considered the possibility that North Korea has sold its GPS jamming system to Middle East countries including Lebanon, Syria and Iran. Just last month, Russia announced that it had sold a series of advanced radar jammers to Iran. Called Avtobaza, the electronic intelligence system might also be able to jam GPS-guided platforms and munitions. “We are preparing and expect that this will be a challenge we will have to deal with in a future war,” a senior IDF officer explained recently. “Our enemies are also building up capabilities.” The ability to jam GPS systems has been a taboo subject within the Israeli defense establishment for years, but with a new conflict looming on the horizon – possibly following an Israeli strike against Iran’s nuclear facilities – there is no ignoring the likelihood that in a future war Israeli smart bombs will be rendered satellite-less. The development of GPS began in the 1970s by the Pentagon and today consists of two dozen satellites that provide global coverage for receivers to determine their precise location within a few meters. The satellites revolve around the earth at an altitude of 20,000 km. and complete one orbit roughly every 12 hours. Over the years, GPS has become an integral part of civilian life and not just of the military. It is used by ships to navigate at sea, by cars to travel by land and by the civil aviation industry as well. Most cellular phones come with GPS chips and its capabilities are often taken for granted. The IDF took its first major step into the world of GPS in 2000 when it became the first foreign customer outside of the US to receive JDAM kits. These were fitted onto 2,000-pound Mk-84 bombs, turning them into precision satellite-guided smart bombs. JDAMs enable Israel Air Force pilots to launch bombs from a standoff position without needing to fly directly over targets where they could be threatened by enemy air defense missile systems. An example of how importance JDAMs are for Israel was provided during Operation Cast Lead in the Gaza Strip almost three years ago. Out of all the bombs dropped, 81 percent were smart bombs, the largest percentage of precision guided weapons ever used in conflict anywhere in the world. But with the reliance come the risks, as jamming systems are more easily available today on the open market. There is also the lingering fear that one day – possibly to prevent Israel from taking military action – the US will shut down the GPS satellites. Maj.-Gen. (res.) Eitan Ben-Eliyahu was commander of the IAF when Israel placed its first order of JDAM kits. “I pushed very hard for the JDAMs since I understood that they were going to provide us with new capabilities that would change the way we operate,” he said. “There are potential problems but when calculating the risks together with the benefits, it is definitely worth relying on such systems.” Israel’s doesn’t just rely on GPS in the air. Take navigation for ground forces as an example. In today’s IDF, Merkava tanks, Namer armored personnel carriers and artillery howitzers are all connected to the Tzayad Digital Army Program (DAP), which shows the position of all friendly and enemy forces. “If a country doesn’t take any precautions to protect GPS then it will be in trouble, since jammers are something that will likely be on a future battlefield,” explained Nir Lavi, director of marketing at Rokar, a Jerusalem-company based that has developed technology to make GPS systems immune to jamming. According to David Last, a former president of the Royal Institute of Navigation and a GPS consultant to the British government, Hezbollah could theoretically place a special radio transmitter on an elevated surface – like a tall mountain in southern Lebanon – and potentially block Israeli GPS from working within a radius of several kilometers. “It takes so little jamming to remove GPS and to jam over a very considerable area – it only requires a radio transmitter that is portable and is easily obtained. If you place it in an elevated location, you can cover a large area,” Last said.

Independently, GPS failure jacks the marines

GAO 10 (“Global Positioning System: Challenges in Sustaining and Upgrading Capabilities Persist,” Report to the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, Government Accounting Office, September 2010, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10636.pdf]])

Marine Corps. The Marine Corps user representative stated that Marines are accustomed to using GPS for PNT; therefore the loss of GPS would severely affect Marines’ ability to navigate. Effects would vary depending on the situation in which a user operates. The most severely affected Marines would be those who use GPS in marginal but currently acceptable conditions, such as under foliage, in mountains, and in urban settings, where a smaller constellation is more likely to result in diminished or no service.

That devastates Heg – forward power projection

Gunzinger 93 (“Power Projection: Making the Tough Choices,” Mark A., Major, USAF, School of Advanced Airpower Studies, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA425629]])

The US remains unalterably a maritime nation, dependent on the seas which provide the avenues for our commerce and the links to our allies and friends. ...Naval forces are uniquely valuable to the Nation for they provide special advantages and flexible options in their employment.11 These two excerpts neatly summarize current Navy and Marine Corps philosophy on the role of maritime forces in a power projection contingency. The amphibious warfare strategy follows the Navy's three-phase approach, describing how Marine forces will operate across the spectrum of conflict. A Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF) can be selectively tailored to fit a given task and rapidly deploy by sea or airlift. Marine forces can perform special operations, act as a combined air-sea-land expeditionary force, or accomplish forcible entries. According to one Marine Corps publication, amphibious forces "provide an unmatched forcible entry capability. Great emphasis is placed on forward presence as the key to conventional deterrence. Forward presence is enhanced through the peacetime deployment of forces such as the III Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF) in the Pacific and a Marine Expeditionary Unit (Special Operations Capable) in the Mediterranean. Maritime prepositioning ships in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Ocean carry 30 days of supplies for a Marine Amphibious Brigade. All of these assets have the effect of reducing response time in the event of a regional crisis. The ability to respond quickly with forces tailored for a particular contingency give the Marine Corps a significant capability to act as an expeditionary force. According to General Kelley, characteristics such as the ability to forward deploy, independently loiter for extended periods of time, or rapidly move ashore have made Navy-Marine forces the traditional instrument of choice "particularly in the early stages of a crisis response. 14 Forward-deployed Marine units such as amphibious ready groups (ARGs) serve as a "visible and credible indicator of American capability to react to sudden, unforeseen crises involving U.S. interests. ì15 These units can loiter over the horizon at sea without a need for forward basing or external sustainment, ready to assault the beach if so ordered. A force structure that is deployable, sustainable, and has an excellent forced-entry capability presumably enables the Marines Corps to "meet the national need for an expeditionary/rapid deployment force.î16 In the final analysis, one of the most cherished traditions of the Marine Corps is their past history as the nation's expeditionary force. Whether or not they will remain so in the future is hotly contested. In his 1989 testimony to the Senate Armed Service Committee, Commandant of the Marine Corps General Alfred M. Gray said the Marine Corps remained this nation's expeditionary force ready to respond to a wide range of crises without the need for mobilization

And, GPS key to disaster relief

Wussler 08 (“Global Positioning Systems: Space-Based PNT for Today and Tomorrow,” Col. Donald E., Vice Commander Global Positioning Systems Wing, Los Angeles AFB, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

In addition to automobile and handheld consumer devices, GPS has become the commercial mainstay of transportation systems worldwide, providing navigation for aviation, ground, and maritime operations. Farmers use precision navigation through GPS and an augmentation system to plow, cultivate, and harvest their fields. Surprisingly to many people, auto-pilot assisted/controlled vehicles will probably be realized in the near future. Civil aviation is continuously increasing its reliance on satellite-based navigation in preparation for the expected increase in air traffic. Aircraft can actually fly user-specified routes from point-to-point with reduced dependency on ground infrastructure, resulting in enhanced landing approaches. The potential savings from these improvements to civil aviation stem from increased efficiency of the air traffic control infrastructure. Life-saving missions, including disaster relief and emergency services currently depend on GPS for locating victims and deploying resources. The potential savings in human life and resources worldwide are astounding. Even everyday, commonplace activities such as banking, mobile phone operations, and control of power grids are facilitated by the accurate timing provided by GPS.

And, Disaster relief key to naval power projection and maritime soft power

Salenga 9 (Commander Edilberto M., United States Navy, “Developing soft power Using afloat medical, Capability”, 02/03/2009, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA500907]], BBQ)

The new Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, released in October 2007, supports the objectives of National Defense Strategy. In as much as the theme of spreading democracy dominated former President Bush’s 2006 National Security Strategy, the theme of “global naval cooperation” dominates the new maritime strategy. The Honorable Donald Winter, Secretary of the Navy, clarifying the inclusion of soft power and shift from major power projection, stated in an interview regarding the new strategy: “We can’t do things unilaterally...not all things, not all places.”3 Given that the new strategy still includes hard power requirements, the inclusion of soft power applications that are comparable with naval power projection and deterrence make the new maritime strategy quite different from the previous strategies. The Navy has traditionally been used to address conventional threats by projecting firepower from the sea, but this orientation may not be the best for the 21st century security environment. The Navy, in its effort to maintain relevance in the long war that does not necessary require heavy projection of firepower, has now embarked on this new cooperative course. The strategy which was signed by the three sea service chiefs is unprecedented; it added a new mindset for the application of naval power, “preventing wars is as important as winning wars.”4 By proactively establishing relationships in peacetime, the U.S. will be able to mitigate human suffering in conjunction with interagency and multinational efforts, both in a deliberate, proactive fashion and in response to crisis. The human suffering moves us to react and the expeditionary nature of our maritime naval assets uniquely positions them to provide assistance. In addition, the ability to conduct rapid and sustained non-combatant evacuation operations is critical to relieving the plight of American citizens and others when their safety is in jeopardy.5 Although the sea services conduct many missions that include forward presence, deterrence, sea control, power projection, and maritime security; the relatively new core competencies of humanitarian assistance and disaster response capabilities comprise the core of U.S. soft maritime power and reflect an increase in emphasis on those activities that prevent war and build partnerships. Its expanded maritime strategic core capabilities of forces that can respond to humanitarian assistance and disaster relief if natural or manmade disasters strike is impressive. Naval forces have routinely been made available during peace time and humanitarian operations due to natural calamities that the new strategy places the soft power of “global cooperation” equal to naval hard power pillars of power projection and deterrence is unprecedented.

And, Heg key to global stability and accesses every major impact

Thayer 6 (Professor of Strategic Studies, Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power‑the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei­ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri­macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in­terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis­es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa­bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa­bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri­macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action­ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur­ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec­tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re­trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat­ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can­not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror­ists, rogue states or rising powers, his­tory shows that threats must be confront­ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc­ing half‑pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak­ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna­tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront­ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys­ical, on‑the‑ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com­mon"‑‑the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space‑allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca­pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today‑-in a world where Ameri­can primacy is clearly and unambiguous­ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ­their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America‑-their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements‑and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun­try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy‑-and the bandwagon­ing effect‑has also given us extensive in­fluence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre­ate coalitions of like‑minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro­liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American‑led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec­tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun­tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac­tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re­sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica­tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases‑‑Venezuela, Iran, Cuba‑it is an anti‑U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin­sically anti‑American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power‑‑Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol­ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con­sider the current international order ‑ free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas­ing respect for human rights, growing de­mocratization‑‑is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol­lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With­out U.S. power, the liberal order cre­ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing­ton and the world. The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela­tionships aligned‑-between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de­mocracy and other elements of its ideol­ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter­ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead­ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin­istration for attempting to spread democ­racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit­ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta­bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per­haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af­ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat­ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash­ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western‑style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku­wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob­al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character­ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo­bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob­al public good from which all states ben­efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well‑being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin‑offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca­reer confident in the socialist ideology of post‑independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog­nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza­tion, which are facilitated through Amer­ican primacy.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.

1ac Solvency

CONTENTION FOUR IS SOLVENCY

No alt causes – GPS II tech development on schedule – plan ensures 2014 delivery

Defense Daily Network 10/10 (“Lockheed Martin Powers on the GPS III Pathfinder,” 10/10/11, [[http://www.defensedaily.com/press_releases/201110101100PR_NEWS_USPR_____SF82773.html]])

The Lockheed Martin (NYSE : LMT) team developing the U.S. Air Force's next generation Global Positioning System has turned on initial power to the program's pathfinder spacecraft, known as the GPS III Non Flight Satellite Testbed (GNST). The milestone gives the team high confidence in meeting the scheduled launch of the first GPS III satellite in 2014. The GPS III program is the lowest risk solution to constellation sustainment and the most affordable path to meet the needs of military, commercial and civilian users worldwide. GPS III will improve position, navigation and timing services and provide advanced anti-jam capabilities yielding superior system security, accuracy and reliability. With a focus on affordability, the GPS III team is first developing the GNST, a full-sized prototype of the GPS III spacecraft used to identify and solve issues prior to the first space vehicle. This approach significantly reduces risk, improves production predictability, increases mission assurance and lowers overall program costs. The GNST, populated with fully functional non-flight boxes, provides space vehicle design level validation; early verification of ground, support, and test equipment; and early confirmation and rehearsal of transportation operations. "Turning initial power on for the GNST is a major milestone for the GPS III team demonstrating we are well on track to deliver the first satellite for launch in 2014," said LtCol Don Frew, the U.S. Air Force's GPS III program manager. "Our joint government and industry team is committed to delivering GPS III on schedule to sustain and modernize the GPS constellation for users worldwide." The GPS III team has installed power subsystem components, harnesses, and tracking, telemetry and control hardware on the GNST structure to support phased checkout of the integrated design. Flight software versions have also been delivered for all of the spacecraft and payload computer processors. In parallel, GPS III teammate ITT is integrating the GNST Navigation Payload at their facility in Clifton, NJ. Successfully powering on the GNST demonstrates initial mechanical integration, validates the GNST's interfaces and leads the way for electrical and integrated hardware-software testing. The GNST will be shipped to Lockheed Martin's GPS III Processing Facility in Denver late this year to demonstrate Assembly, Integration and Test procedures. It will then be delivered to Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in the summer for 2012 for pathfinding activities at the launch site. "Together with the Air Force, we continue to meet major program milestones on or ahead of schedule and we are committed to delivering GPS III spacecraft affordably and efficiently," said Keoki Jackson, Lockheed Martin's GPS III program director. "Our progress on the GNST is already saving the program money, eliminating risk early and providing highly reliable mission assurance for GPS constellation sustainment." Building on lessons learned from previous GPS space programs; the U.S. Air Force's GPS III acquisition approach is considered by many to be the model for future space acquisition. The program has reinstated rigorous technical specifications and standards, and placed a strong emphasis on systems engineering with a robust mission assurance process. These actions provide the basis for verifying the quality of the technical work and ensuring issues are surfaced and corrected earlier in the program. For GPS III, Lockheed Martin is building on its proven record of delivering highly reliable GPS spacecraft. The fleet of Lockheed Martin-built GPS IIR and IIR-M satellites makes up the majority of the operational GPS constellation. The satellites have exceeded 140 cumulative operational years on-orbit with a reliability record of better than 99.9 percent. Lockheed Martin heritage also dates back to the production of the Oscar and Nova satellites, the programs that paved the way to the current GPS system.

Here’s our advocate – fund the president’s request

Casey 9/12 (“Casey Pushes for GPS Program to Support National Security and Jobs in Bucks County,” Senator Bob Casey, 9/12/11, [[http://casey.senate.gov/newsroom/press/release/?id=4767c961-e7da-4bbc-977a-dfe8c3c08bc1]])

I greatly appreciate the funding constraints that the Defense Subcommittee must work under in drafting a fiscal 2012 defense appropriations bill. However, given the strong track record of the GPS III program, and the system’s importance to our military forces and the nation’s economic competitiveness, GPS III is a solid and wise investment in our military and the nation’s future. Accordingly, I request that the Subcommittee support the President’s requests for the GPS III program included in both the Air Force Research, Development, Test and Evaluation budget and the Air Force Missile Procurement budget.

And, No one will attack GPS – whole world uses it

Walske 10 (“Vulnerabilities of the Global Positioning System and the Impact on the Iron Triad: The AWACS, JSTARS, and Rivet Joint Fleets,” Mark J., Major, USAF, US Army Command and Staff College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA524209]])

This too is a risk to US satellites. A kinetic attack weapon need not hit a satellite directly if instead it could place debris in or near the path of its orbiting target. Regardless, Michael Krepon, president emeritus of the Henry L. Stimson Center, stated in an interview that the Chinese test appeared to be a political statement challenging US superiority in space. It is unlikely that the Chinese would openly attack the GPS constellation considering the international reliance on GPS for everything from civil air traffic navigation to precision timing for banking transactions. However, with the emergence of other GNSS, the protection of deterrence may lessen due to the availability of alternative navigation and timing sources should a potentially hostile nation attempt to degrade the US military’s precision strike capability

And, Consult with every actor normal means

Wong and Clore 08 (“Promoting International Civil GNSS Cooperation Through Diplomacy,” Alice A., Senior Advisor for GPS Issues US Department of State, and Ray E., Senior Advisor for GPS-Galileo Issues US Department of State, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

The US has many productive bilateral relationships on satellite navigation issues. US-Japanese cooperation on GPS has included regular policy and technical consultations since 1996 and is currently based on the 1998 Clinton-Obuchi Joint Statement. Japan’s MT-SAT Satellite Based Augmentation System, which was declared operational in September 2007, is fully compatible and interoperable with GPS. Japan’s Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS), which will improve GPS coverage over Japan, has also been designed to be compatible and interoperable with GPS. The US is working with Japan to set up QZSS monitoring stations in Hawaii and Guam. The European Union and the US signed a GPS-Galileo Cooperation Agreement in 2004. We jointly designed a new civil signal modulation known as MBOC (multiplexed binary offset carrier) that will be used on both GPS III and the Galileo open service. We also confirmed compatibility and interoperability between the planned signals known as L5 on GPS and E5a on Galileo. Aside from technical cooperation, we have opened channels for bilateral communication on issues related to trade and civil applications, next-generation GNSS, and security. We have started a joint outreach initiative intended to promote the future user benefits of a combined GPS-Galileo service. Russia and the US have been negotiating a GPS-GLONASS Cooperation Agreement since 2004. Productive technical working group meetings have been held. Russia is considering a proposal for GLONASS to adopt two new civil code division multiple access signals at L1 and L5 which will be interoperable with GPS, supporting an emerging international consensus on use of L1 and L5 for interoperable civil signals. India and the US have had policy and technical consultations on GPS cooperation underway since 2005. Interoperability between the US government supported wide area augmentation system and India’s planned GPS and GEO Augmented Navigation (GAGAN) system based on GPS, has been agreed. The US and India are also discussing greater interoperability between GPS and the planned India Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS). US and India recently conducted a productive GPS-IRNSS interoperability and compatibility working group and an ITU coordination meeting in Bangalore in January of 2008. In addition to Indian efforts, the US also held a GPS policy and technical consultation with Australia in April of 2007 leading to the signing of a joint delegation statement on GPS cooperation.

==1AC GPS - New Plan Text (Dowling)== 
PLAN: The United States federal government should increase its funding for the Global Positioning System III program to the level of the President’s request for the Fiscal Year 2012 budget.

==1AC Persons with Disabilities (NatQuals)== 

**The United States federal government should explore space via persons with disabilities.**

**Contention One is Exclusion**

**Space is a unique instance of exclusion – persons with disabilities are told they do not fit within ideals of the astronaut**
**Goldin 01**—Daniel S, NASA Administrator, “Mars/Viking 25th Anniversary Tribute NASA’s Legacy of Mars Exploration: The View from the Administrator”, ASTROBIOLOGY Volume 1, Number 4, 2001, Google Scholar, BBQ

THE OLD SAYING GOES that those who can do, and those who cannot teach. It’s an old saying; it’s not politically correct. In the world of sports it’s those who can play, and those who cannot coach. When applied to the early days of the space program, back when the astronaut corps was only recruited from the nation’s best fighter pilots, the saying most likely went something like this: When it comes to exploring new worlds and pioneering the future, those who can fly in space; those who cannot, like myself and like many others in the room . . . well, they become engineers and scientists. I refuse to admit that we lack the right stuff; we just have different stuff. When I was very young, because of a physical disability, I found out I couldn’t play action sports like my friends. And I remember my father insisting there’s nothing wrong with being different. You can be different as long as you find something you love, work hard at it, and be good at being different. Not long after that, when I was 7 years old, I found out exactly what it was that I loved. My father took me to the Hayden Planetarium, and I immediately fell in love with space and everything about it. And since that day my dream has been the same. I wanted to go to Mars. That’s why I became an engineer, that’s why right after college I went to work for NASA, and that’s why I think being NASA Administrator is the very best job in the world.

**They are considered invalid and ineligible for space flight**
**Samuels 02**—“Aiming for space, history books,” St Petersburg Times, 12/30/02, <span class="Hyperlink1">[[http://www.sptimes.com/2002/12/30/news_pf/NorthPinellas/Aiming_for_space__his.shtml]]</span>)

Joe Nolfo wants to go to space. Words can't express how much he wants to go. So he hopes his actions do. He plans to swim 40 miles in a pool to raise money to finance a study analyzing the complexities involved in sending a disabled person into space. That study would go to NASA, Nolfo said, and he hopes it will help NASA approve him for space travel. "I want to be the first person with a major handicap to go in a space shuttle," said Nolfo, 40, who lost a leg in a 1982 hit-and-run accident. "I want to live all the adventures I can. I want to compare myself to Ernest Hemingway and think he had nothing on me." Nolfo, a former jewelry shop owner, got the idea while recovering from the accident, which happened in Hillsborough County. After awakening from a five-week coma, Nolfo read National Geographic almost religiously and got hooked on stories about the U.S. space program. He then dedicated his life to raising money for various causes so he can gain enough attention to make his dreams come true. Since 1995, he has put himself through various endurance tests to raise thousands for children's societies, manatee protection efforts and animal humane societies. Some might best remember Nolfo as the "guy from Oldsmar" who used his wheelchair to make a cross-country trek in 1997. That event generated lots of newsprint, which Nolfo carefully clipped and preserved in black, three-ring binders. The walls of his home are covered with mounted and framed articles and paraphernalia from his 159-day trek, including a framed letter from singer Jimmy Buffett. Nolfo keeps another black binder full of his letters, e-mails and proposals for putting a one-legged man into space. They start in 1998 with a letter to Jan Davis, an astronaut who happened to be working on the Save the Manatees campaign with Nolfo. Davis told Nolfo to contact an official in charge of astronaut selection at NASA, Nolfo said, who referred him to an initiative to send disabled astronauts to space. The project was created by Mitchell Rappaport, 51, of Houston, who works for Wallace Publishing Corporation. Rappaport, a disabled survivor of severe brain injuries, got the idea for the project while working on other civil rights issues in the 1960s. “It was kind of a vision," Rappaport said. "I wanted to go into space. Every young boy will have a desire to go into space on their own. I always say that what I've been doing is helping to pave the way." It was Nolfo who reinvigorated the initiative, Rappaport said. The two say they are now in talks with a NASA official who is on the agency's astronaut selection program. Nolfo said the man has indicated to them that NASA would consider a detailed proposal to put a handicapped person into space. But the NASA official declined to respond to messages left with an agency spokeswoman. Eileen Hawley, a spokeswoman, said anyone who flies to space must be able to escape the shuttle quickly while it's still on land. Hawley said she could not confirm any official agency contact with Nolfo. She said she was unaware of any immediate plans to put a disabled person on a shuttle mission. "I really can't speculate on the future," Hawley said about that possibility. "Our current policy says (the person) can't compromise their own safety or the safety of others in the event of an emergency. It isn't just about being in space." Still, Nolfo is moving ahead. He and the group working to send disabled person to space intend to find a scientist willing to study how a handicapped person could succeed in space. Then they must raise $75,000 to finance the study. The study would need to examine whether a disabled person is a threat to the mission or to himself in a space situation. It also would consider other scientific factors NASA's doctors use to determine who qualifies for space travel, Nolfo said. As it stands, a disabled person cannot qualify for space travel. But then, neither can most of the U.S. population. You must have near perfect vision without the help of glasses, surgery or contacts. You must have a bachelor's degree or better. Military experience is a plus.

**How we think about persons with disabilities is a litmus test for our conception of normalcy and otherness more broadly – the social construction of and discrimination against the disabled legitimizes an eugenic extermination of those who threaten our idea of what it means to be normal**
**Bagenstos 2k**–Samuel R. Bagenstos, law at Harvard, April 2000 (86 Va. L. Rev. 397)

Erving Goffman's notion of stigma is a useful tool here. Although "stigma" refers colloquially to animus and prejudice, Goffman used the term to refer to a broader problem. He described the condition as an "undesired differentness" from what society deems to be "normal" or expected. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|153]] Under Goffman's approach, the core aspect of stigma occurs when prevailing social practices treat particular "undesirable" traits as universally discrediting. As Goffman emphasized, those who deal with stigmatized persons "tend to impute a wide range of imperfections on the basis of the original one." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|154]] As a result, people with stigmatized traits are not considered to be among the "normals" for whom society, and its institutions, are designed. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|155]] This stigma is as much about so [*438] cial attitudes as about the traits themselves; even if an individual can "cure" a stigmatized trait, she may still not be accepted in the community of "normals." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|156]] Goffman's construct of "stigma" provides a useful tool in giving content to my subordination-based understanding of disability rights law for at least two reasons. First, Goffman's analysis strongly influenced the thoughts of many of the disability rights activists on whose work I rely. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|157]] Second, that analysis provides a way of connecting the animus-and stereotype-based discrimination experienced by many people with disabilities with their more systemic neglect in the design of the environment. It therefore provides a way of treating the three basic manifestations of disability discrimination under a single rubric, and it provides a way of predicting which types of impairments are likely to be associated with systematic deprivation of opportunities. Because Goffman wrote primarily about individual interactions between "the normals" and "the stigmatized," his notion of stigma most directly helps to describe the prejudice and stereotypes people with disabilities experience in such interactions. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|158]] It is especially useful in explaining the "spread effect," under which an impairment to a particular life function is seen as universally disabling. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|159]] But Goffman's analysis of stigma helps to describe the society-wide neglect of people with disabilities as well. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|160]] In particular, it helps to explain why [*439] people with some impairments are likely to be systematically neglected by social decisions, and why those people are likely to be the same people as those who experience animus and stereotyping. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|161]] If stigma means that an individual is not considered to be one of "the normals," then people with stigmatized impairments are likely not to be a part of the social "norm" considered by those who design the social and physical environment. Even if the environment's "designers" do not harbor prejudiced or stereotyped thoughts about people with stigmatized conditions, they are likely not to consider their needs in the same way that they consider the needs of those who are "normal." Disability rights advocates have long made this precise point about "disability." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|162]] They have argued that "the entire physical and social organization of life" is frequently structured as though everyone were physically strong, as though all bodies were shaped [*440] the same, as though everyone could walk, hear, and see well, as though everyone could work and play at a pace that is not compatible with any kind of illness or pain, as though no one were ever dizzy or incontinent or simply needed to sit or lie down. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|163]] This phenomenon is most obvious in the built environment. Architects design structures with a model of the "normal" user in mind, and that model has typically been a person without any discernible impairments. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|164]] This "assumption of able-bodiedness as the norm" [[http://livepage.apple.com/|165]] can be seen in buildings with unnecessary stairs, doorways that are too narrow to accommodate wheelchairs, and entrances that fail to provide any detectable warning for people with visual impairments. But the phenomenon of neglect extends beyond the decisions that have constructed our physical architecture. It affects our patterns of social organization as well. Among other things, it affects the structure of jobs and the means by which businesses and governments deliver services. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|166]] Why have those who constructed our social and physical environment failed to consider people with disabilities as among the "normal" users? One explanation might look to the very history of [*441] prejudice and stereotypes noted by Congress. For much of our history, people with a variety of physical and mental disabilities were "shunted aside, hidden, and ignored." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|167]] People with impairments ranging from epilepsy to blindness to mental retardation were segregated from the community in a collection of congregate institutions. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|168]] Such segregation "perpetuated unwarranted assumptions that persons so isolated are incapable or unworthy of participating in community life." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|169]] Even among those who were not institutionalized, people with disabilities frequently did not work, patronize businesses, or use government services outside of the home. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|170]] (In some cases, they were required by law to stay at home; as late as 1974, some major American jurisdictions still maintained "ugly laws" that prohibited "unsightly" people - a category that encompassed people with disabilities - from appearing in public. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|171]] ) A person designing a particular building, production process, or job description could thus be forgiven for failing to think of people with disabilities as potential customers or workers. The designer might have had no particular negative attitudes toward "the disabled." Indeed, it might never have entered her mind that people with disabilities might wish to use her building or work in her business; she might simply have had no available model of people with disabilities as ordinary people with ordinary needs and tastes. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|172]] Al [*442] though people with disabilities have become more and more integrated into society at large in the last two decades, the history of exclusion may have a particularly long "tail." Buildings and processes designed without people with disabilities in mind may be used for many years to come. And prejudice and stereotypes - which have themselves been fed by the absence of people with disabilities from the larger community [[http://livepage.apple.com/|173]] - may linger even longer. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|174]] The historic exclusion of people with disabilities from "normal" society has interacted in complex and reciprocal ways with broader ideological currents. Lennard Davis has argued that the notion of "norms" dates only to the development of a science of statistics in the early nineteenth century. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|175]] Until then, Davis contends, the place now occupied by the "norm" was held by the notion of an "ideal," which was understood to be unattainable by any human. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|176]] But the [*443] newfound "concept of a norm, unlike that of an ideal, implied that the majority of the population must or should somehow be part of the norm." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|177]] Early statisticians made this point expressly: They argued that social institutions should be built around the broad middle group of persons who fit the social norm. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|178]] As Davis demonstrates, their arguments both provided justification for, and drew strength from, an ideology that accorded a morally privileged position to the middle class. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|179]] More darkly, they fed the eugenic ideology that led to the institutionalization and sterilization of many people whom we now label "disabled." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|180]] The nineteenth-century notion that institutions should be designed for the "norm" persists. But our vision of "normal" human attributes has become increasingly idealized, as the eugenics movement (which sought "to norm the nonstandard" [[http://livepage.apple.com/|181]] ) may have been the first to demonstrate. Rob Imrie's account of modernist architecture points out the effect that such an ideology of the "norm" has had on our built environment. In seeking to make form follow function, and to "tie buildings back to the scale of the human being," modernists harbored a particularly able-bodied vision of who "the human being" was. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|182]] Imrie illustrates this vision by pointing to Le Corbusier's "Modular," which "utilized the proportions of the (able) body to enable the architect to create the built spaces." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|183]] The "Modular," a diagram of a muscular six-foot tall man, was "the person for whom functionality in building design and form was being defined." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|184]] Many inaccessible features of today's buildings, Imrie argues, trace directly to modernism's exclusion of people with disabilities from its idealized version of the "norm." [[http://livepage.apple.com/|185]] [*444] As we move to a new millennium, we seem to believe as strongly as ever that everyone should fit an "ideal" body type. Although there are surely a variety of reasons for this development, the most notable are a consumer/advertising culture that idealizes beauty and a widespread belief in the ability of modern medicine to enhance our mental and physical lives. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|186]] As a result, the ideological currents that exclude people with disabilities from our notion of the "norm" stubbornly remain with us. In this view, "disability" is a group status, but it is not one defined by anything inherent in the members of the group. Rather, the attitudes and practices that exclude people with "disabilities" from many opportunities to participate in society are the very ones that create the "disability" category. Although individuals em [*445] braced by the category have vastly different impairments and limitations (indeed, some have no impairment or limitation at all), what is crucial is that society treats them as essentially similar. [[http://livepage.apple.com/|188]] In Wendell's words, "widespread perceptions that people with disabilities are similar in very significant ways create the category, "people with disabilities.'" [[http://livepage.apple.com/|189]] The widespread acts of "discrimination, segregation, and denial of equal opportunity" directed at people with disabilities have effectively marked that group as a "dependent caste."

**The construction of the ideal body and mind that is posited against the disabled contains within it the crucial component that sustains all prejudice and disenfranchisement—the aff stands in as a confrontation with broader social forms of violence**
**Wilkerson 2**—Abby Wilkerson, Teacher at George Washington University, Disability, Sex Radicalism, and Political Agency, 2002 (National Women's Studies Association Journal. NWSA Journal 14.3 (2002) 33-57 [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/nwsa_journal/v014/14.3wilkerson.html]])

While the relevance of queer theory for investigating the political dimensions of sexual agency should be clear, the role of disability studies in this context may be less well understood. Queer perspectives have helped us to understand and resist regimes organized around controlling a variety of sexual identities and practices. **Disability perspectives reveal the broad array of cultural norms** which privilege an illusory ideal mind and body at the expense of our actual bodies of all shapes and sizes, which are subject to a host of contingencies and are all too fragile, yet capable [End Page 36] of a vast array of thoughts, movements. Together, queer and disability perspectives help to reveal why sexual agency must be understood as an important, and in some ways, **key component of the liberation struggles of all disenfranchised groups**, rather than a luxury to be addressed after achieving goals that might be perceived as more basic. Working toward this end not only requires disability studies to engage in sustained dialogue with the critical framework of sex radicalism, but also with feminism and critical race theory in order to understand how sexual hierarchies are always simultaneously gendered and racialized. It also requires serious critical engagement with the ageism that renders both youth and the elderly as less than fully human, and the infantilization that denies agency to adult members of some groups, such as people with disabilities. All of these politically engaged critical frameworks help to illuminate the ways in which marginalized groups come to be perceived as deviant bodies; how actual or perceived differences in these bodies are taken as demonstrating particular forms of inferiority; and how these associations become articulated in the pathologized erotic "natures" attributed to each group. It is not surprising that queer and disability movements have displayed similarly flamboyant and defiant political and aesthetic sensibilities (as indicated by the Not Dead Yet disability action group or the Diseased Pariah newsletter created by gay men living with AIDS). First, I will look at one of the founding documents of queer theory, assessing its relevance for current and future conjunctions of disability studies, queer theory, and other frameworks. I will go on to examine the political implications of erotophobia as it affects oppressed groups more generally, then take up the role of sexual shame in oppression based on sexuality and gender, and return to medical constructions of the sexuality of people with disabilities and others. Finally, I will consider the important role of counter-discourses and coalition politics in a movement for inclusive sexual liberation.

**The conception of disability as deviant and unworthy of protection spans both governments and academia—the aesthetic lack contained within the disabled body motivates a politics based around extermination**
**Wilson 6**—Daniel J. Wilson, Cultural Locations of Disability, published October 8th, 2006
([[http://muse.jhu.edu/search/pia.cgi?action=resort&search_id=220100484&numterms=5&include_jstor=&sort=rank&show=100]])

In two chapters on the eugenics movement, Snyder and Mitchell ‘analyze eugenics as the hegemonic formation of exclusionary practices based on scientific formulas of deviancy’ (p. 73). Eugenics, they contend, used the new quantitative studies of normality to enforce ‘an aesthetic ideology’ (p. 77). This so-called science stigmatized certain bodily differences and those whose bodies differed from some norm. They point out that eugenicists were guilty of asserting that it was individuals who needed fixing rather than the social and cultural environments. The authors also criticize eugenics for using disabled bodies to learn more about human biology, for pathologizing difference, and for excluding disabled persons from full membership in the human community. The authors apply a Foucauldian analysis to the ways in which recent cinema has both contributed to the oppression of the disabled and challenged the cultural acceptance of disability as deviant and in need of normalization. Recent documentaries by Fred Wiseman, they write, have properly focused on the ‘lethal and brutal social context’ in which people with disabilities have had to live (p. 180). Finally, Snyder and Mitchell charge scholars in disability studies with some of the oppressive behaviors they associate with the eugenicists. In particular, they assert that scholars oppress people with disabilities through "people-based research practices" where disabled individuals' time, liberty, and energies are expended without concern or adequate caution' (p. 193). They conclude with the ‘heretical claim that textually based analysis is the only absolute remedy to the exhaustion of people-based research practices’ (p. 201). Snyder and Mitchell also analyze selected historical episodes, or ‘cultural locations’, of the oppression of people with disabilities. They identify the ways in which disability has been represented as deviant and stigmatized in order to marginalize, incarcerate, and eliminate individuals with disabilities. There is no doubt that some normalizing tendencies of modernizing science and medicine have considered disability as abnormal and in need of repair or elimination.

**The eugenic gaze cast by the technologies of discipline that govern our relationship to disability culminates in the genocidal impulse—the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by current development efforts legitimizes state-sponsored violence against the other.**
**Hughes 2**—Bill Hughes, social policy at University of Glasgow, 2002, Disability Studies Today, p. 60-2

The dominant framework for understanding disability in the modern period has been the medical model. From the early nineteenth century onwards, biomedicine legitimated the view that biophysical ‘abnormality’ or ‘maladaptation’ leads to, or is the cause of, social ‘abnormality’ or ‘maladaptation.’ In other words, to be defined as a ‘flawed body’ is simultaneously to be defined as incapable of adequate social participation. The corporealization of disability meant, in practical terms, the segregation of those so labeled. The logic of the medical model runs from diagnosis to social response. In causal terms, there seem to be three linked elements in the chain: impairment leads to disability, which in turn leads to confinement or ‘institutionalization’. The social respond to the ‘flawed’ body particularly in the nineteenth century – was anthropoemic. This concept refers to the expulsion or exile of alien persons. The Victorian penchant for excluding people from social participation on the ground of what today might be called ‘difference’ was summed up by Foucault’s (1969) notion of the ‘great confinement.’ The segregation associated with confinement was not only equivalent to a custodial sentence – often for life – but was also the sentence of a ‘social death,’ which was – in itself a sort of tacit legitimation for the denial of human rights and the application of oppressive practices of care (Barnes 1990). These institutional spaces of exclusion, into which disabled people were cast, were, after all, ‘civilized’ by medical jurisdiction. The very authority that had objectified disabled people by reducing them to their impairments now had the opportunity to define disabled people’s needs and, in many cases, act //in locl parentis.// [continues] The medical model of disability is, and has been, strongly associated with the potentially reactionary, theme that ‘biology is destiny,’ and is embedded in popular culture by the ‘naturalization’ of the view that natural aptitudes determine life chances. Nurture is causally impotent in the social world, it is natural endowment that is the most efficacious variable. At its worst, in the nineteenth century, the medicalization of disability dovetailed with what Foucault called the ‘racisms of the state’ (1979: 54), with the Darwinist and eugenicist perspectives which promised to cleanse the social body of impunity, imperfection, degeneracy and effectiveness. The concept of ‘fitness’ was used, in such contexts, as a criterion for making ‘humanity’ – defined in terms of aesthetic ideals of embodiment – into a relative term. Modernity is riddled with such eugenic conceptions of social hygiene. They are based on the view that disabled people are either ‘unfit’ to be in society or to reproduce. The eugenic gaze proposes collective solutions to the contaminant that disabled bodies represent, but does not propose collectivist explanations. It is imprisoned in the repertoire of socio-biology and social Darwinism, and treats disability as an error of nature that should be righted. When wedded to a rigid concept of heredity, biological reductionism may at its worst translate into a politics of genocide.

**The biological degradation of disabilities is the root cause of conflict—wars are fought and life is exterminated not because of a particular sovereign geopolitical interest but because of the biopolitical commitment to eugenic violence**
**Elden 2** (Stuart Elden, politics at University of Warwick, 2002, //Boundary 2// 29.2)

The reverse side is the power to allow death. State racism is a recoding of the old mechanisms of blood through the new procedures of regulation. Racism, as biologizing, as tied to a state, takes shape where the procedures of intervention ‘‘at the level of the body, conduct, health, and everyday life, received their color and their justification from the mythical concern with protecting the purity of the blood and ensuring the triumph of the race’’ (VS, 197; WK, 149).37 For example, the old anti-Semitism based on religion is reused under the new rubric of state racism. The integrity and purity of the race is threatened, and the state apparatuses are introduced against the race that has infiltrated and introduced noxious elements into the body. The Jews are characterized as the race present in the middle of all races (FDS, 76).38 The use of medical language is important. Because certain groups in society are conceived of in medical terms, society is no longer in need of being defended from the outsider but from the insider: the abnormal in behavior, species, or race. What is novel is not the mentality of power but the technology of power (FDS, 230). The recoding of old problems is made possible through new techniques. A break or cut (coupure) is fundamental to racism: a division or incision between those who must live and those who must die. The ‘‘biological continuum of the human species’’ is fragmented by the apparition of races, which are seen as distinguished, hierarchized, qualified as good or inferior, and so forth. The species is subdivided into subgroups that are thought of as races. In a sense, then, just as the continuum of geometry becomes divisible in Descartes,39 the human continuum is divided, that is, made calculable and orderable, two centuries later. As Anderson has persuasively argued, to suggest that racism has its roots in nationalism is a mistake. He suggests that ‘‘the dreams of racism actually have their origin in ideologies of class, rather than in those of nation: above all in claims to divinity among rulers and to ‘blue’ or ‘white’ blood and breeding among aristocracies.’’40 As Stoler has noted, for Foucault, it is the other way around: ‘‘A discourse of class derives from an earlier discourse of races.’’41 But it is a more subtle distinction than that. What Foucault suggests is that discourses of class have their roots in the war of races, but so, too, does modern racism; what is different is the biological spin put on the concepts.42 But as well as emphasizing the biological, modern racism puts this another way: to survive, to live, one must be prepared to massacre one’s enemies, a relation of war. As a relation of war, this is no different from the earlier war of races that Foucault has spent so much of the course explaining. But when coupled with the mechanisms of mathematics and medicine in bio-power, this can be conceived of in entirely different ways. Bio-power is able to establish, between my life and the death of the other, a relation that is not warlike or confrontational but biological: ‘‘The more inferior species tend to disappear, the more abnormal individuals can be eliminated, the less the species will be degenerated, the more I— not as an individual but as a species—will live, will be strong, will be vigorous, will be able to proliferate.’’ The death of the other does not just make me safer personally, but the death of the other, of the bad, inferior race or the degenerate or abnormal, makes life in general healthier and purer (FDS, 227–28). ‘‘The existence in question is no longer of sovereignty, juridical; but that of the population, biological. If genocide is truly the dream of modern powers, this is not because of a return today of the ancient right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population’’ (VS, 180; WK, 136). ‘‘If the power of normalization wishes to exercise the ancient sovereign right of killing, it must pass through racism. And if, inversely, a sovereign power, that is to say a power with the right of life and death, wishes to function with the instruments, mechanisms, and technology of normalization, it must also pass through racism’’ (FDS, 228). This holds for indirect death—the exposure to death—as much as for direct killing. While not Darwinism, this biological sense of power is based on evolutionism and **enables a thinking of colonial relations, the necessity of wars, criminality, phenomena of madness and mental illness, class divisions, and so forth**. The link to colonialism is central: This form of modern state racism develops first with colonial genocide. The theme of the political enemy is extrapolated biologically. But what is important in the shift at the end of the nineteenth century is that war is no longer simply a way of securing one race by eliminating the other but of regenerating that race (FDS, 228–30). As Foucault puts it in La volonté de savoir : Wars are no longer waged in the name of a sovereign who must be defended; they are waged on behalf of the existence of all; entire populations are mobilized for the purpose of wholesale slaughter in the name of life necessity. Massacres have become vital [vitaux— understood in a dual sense, both as essential and biological]. It is as managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race, that so many regimes have been able to wage so many wars, causing so many men to be killed. (VS, 180; WK, 136)


**Contention Two is Impact Framing**

**The disad’s use of traditionally utilitarian frameworks prioritizes “non-disabled” persons and ableist ideology**
**Stein 01**—Mark S., Social Theory and Practice, October 2001, " Utilitarianism and the disabled: distribution of life”, Yale University Press, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6395/is_4_27/ai_n28884405/?tag=content;col1]], BBQ

Introduction Distributive issues involving the disabled arise in a number of settings. For utilitarians, a key divide is that between the distribution of lifesaving resources (hereinafter the distribution of life) and the distribution of non-life-saving resources (hereinafter the distribution of resources). In the distribution of resources between the disabled and the nondisabled, a utilitarian distributive policy is likely to have considerable intuitive appeal, even to many opponents of utilitarianism. In the distribution of life between the disabled and the nondisabled, a utilitarian distributive policy has apparent implications that are counterintuitive and likely to be resisted, even by many utilitarians. Disability and Welfare It is commonly assumed that disabled people have less well-being or welfare than they would have if they were not disabled. It is also commonly assumed that disabled people have less welfare, on average, than nondisabled people. I will refer to these two related assumptions, collectively, as the assumption of lower disabled welfare. The assumption of lower disabled welfare is routinely accepted by distributive theorists of all different stripes, including utilitarians, resource egalitarians, and welfare egalitarians. (1) Of course, routine acceptance of the assumption of lower disabled welfare does not mean that the assumption of lower disabled welfare is correct. The relationship between disability and welfare is a vast and complicated subject. Different disabilities have different effects on the welfare of people, and different people may also react differently to the same disability. Anecdotally, some disabled people have stated that they would "give anything" to be nondisabled, (2) while others have stated that they would not choose to become nondisabled even if they could do so by taking a "magic pill" (3) or a simple medication. (4) Many psychological studies have attempted to compare the welfare levels of disabled people and nondisabled people. (5) If a single conclusion can be drawn from these studies, it may be that physically disabled people report lower levels of welfare, on average, than nondisabled people, but the difference is not as great as nondisabled people might expect. For example, Dijkers has summarized the studies on subjective well-being among persons with SCI (spinal cord injury) as finding that "subjective well-being among persons with SCI was lower than in the population at large, but ... the difference was not dramatic." (6) Such psychological studies raise many methodological and philosophical issues. There is the question of whether it is possible to make interpersonal comparisons of welfare, and if so, how best to make them. This is itself a vast and complicated subject. (7) Assuming that interpersonal comparisons of welfare are possible, (8) there are issues of scale comparability and "scale norming." (9) For example, does a self-report of "3" on a 0-to-5 "miserable-to-delighted" scale mean the same thing when given by a paraplegic as when given by an ambulatory person? There is also the question of whether accidental disability and genetic disability have different effects on welfare. Common sense suggests that accidental disability should have a more severe effect, because people who are accidentally disabled suffer the experience of loss. Some psychologists, however, believe that people who are accidentally disabled actually have a higher level of welfare than people with analogous genetic disabilities. (10) My own view is that the assumption of lower disabled welfare is correct' disabled people do have less welfare, on average, than nondisabled people, though there are doubtless many disabled people who have more welfare than many nondisabled people. But I will not here attempt to defend the assumption of lower disabled welfare. My project in this article is to consider whether it is possible to construct a utilitarian theory that avoids unsavory distributive policies toward the disabled, even if the assumption of lower disabled welfare is correct. The Utilitarian Greater-Benefit Criterion The first-order distributive principle of utilitarianism is to distribute resources to the people (11) who will most benefit from those resources, "benefit" being understood here as an increase in utility or welfare. Absent secondary considerations, the distribution of resources to the people who will most benefit from those resources will maximize welfare. I will refer to the principle that resources should be distributed to the people who would most benefit from them as the greater-benefit criterion. Harsanyi and Singer, among others, have stressed the centrality to utilitarianism of the greater-benefit criterion. (12) If the utilitarian greater-benefit criterion is applied under the assumption of lower disabled welfare, it has implications for the distribution of non-life-saving resources that are actually rather favorable to the disabled. Often resources can be used to cure or ameliorate disability. The assumption of lower disabled welfare suggests that disabled people would derive considerable benefit from resources used to cure or ameliorate disability. For example, if paraplegia substantially reduces a person's welfare, then curing that person's paraplegia will substantially increase his welfare. Even ameliorative measures that fall far short of a cure can substantially increase the welfare of the disabled. If one reason paraplegia reduces welfare is that it makes it difficult for people to get around, the provision of wheelchairs to paraplegics can substantially increase their welfare, as can modification of the environment. Accordingly, the disabled have a relatively strong claim on resources under utilitarianism -- or so I have elsewhere argued. (13) Of course, the distribution or redistribution of resources to the disabled would not be unlimited under utilitarianism. In some cases, nondisabled claimants for resources, such as the nondisabled poor, might benefit more from additional resources than disabled claimants. In such cases, the nondisabled claimants would have a stronger claim on resources than would disabled claimants. But this aspect of the greater benefit criterion, while perhaps difficult to apply, is not at all offensive. Just as it would seem unfair if society devoted no extra resources to the disabled, so it would also seem unfair if society embarked on a campaign of unlimited redistribution to the disabled. The utilitarian greater-benefit criterion seems to strike the correct balance in the distribution of resources between disabled people and nondisabled people. (14) Distribution of Life Unfortunately, the same sensitivity to relative benefit that makes utilitarianism an appealing approach to the distribution of resources appears to make utilitarianism a counterintuitive and unappealing approach to the distribution of life. If the disabled have on average less welfare than nondisabled people, it seems to follow that the disabled benefit less from continued life than do nondisabled people**.** Utilitarianism would therefore **place a lower value on disabled life than on nondisabled life,** and if a choice had to be made between saving the lives of disabled people and saving the lives of nondisabled people, utilitarianism would counsel us to give less preference to the disabled. So, for example, disabled people would receive less preference, in the distribution of life-saving organ transplants, than nondisabled people. Moreover, the utilitarian preference against disabled people in the distribution of life would appear to be exactly proportional to the utilitarian preference in favor of disabled people in the distribution of resources. However morally urgent it might be to cure a given disabled person, increasing her welfare, it would seem that the same moral urgency must attach to a decision to preserve the life of a nondisabled person in preference to that disabled person, assuming that only one of them could survive. This problematic seesaw also moves in the other direction. Suppose we say that the view of disabled people as miserable is based on a superficial and discredited psychology. Many psychologists believe that people have a great capability for hedonic adaptation to adverse situations, including disability. (15) Therefore, it would arguably be a mistake to think, for example, that much welfare could be gained by preserving the life of an able-bodied person in preference to the life of a paraplegic. All well and good, but the apparent implication of such an argument is also that a paraplegic would not achieve much of an increase in welfare if she were cured of paralysis--and that she would achieve an even smaller increase in welfare from ameliorative aid that benefited her less than would a complete cure. In their recent book The Allocation of Health Care Resources, (16) utilitarian bioethicists John McKie, Jeff Richardson, Peter Singer, and Helga Kuhse embrace the view that utilitarianism requires health care allocators to discriminate against the disabled in the distribution of life. McKie et al. defend such discrimination as a proper result of the health care allocation theory that seeks to maximize quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and they support the QALY-maximization theory as an application of utilitarianism to the field of health care allocation. Somewhat surprisingly, discrimination against the disabled in the distribution of life was also endorsed, if gingerly, by the "Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine," convened by the U.S. Public Health Service. The Panel on Cost-Effectiveness did not endorse discrimination against the disabled in the allocation of scarce life-saving medical treatment, such as organ transplants. However, it did gingerly endorse discrimination against the disabled in the allocation of funds to large-scale projects. (17) Discrimination against the disabled in the distribution of life has been termed "double jeopardy." (18) Many people find the idea of imposing such double jeopardy on the disabled to be counterintuitive, and I do also. In this article I will seek to articulate a utilitarian theory that can avoid discriminating against the disabled in the distribution of life. Some of my arguments will go to the practical difficulties of instituting double jeopardy, while others will constitute more principled objections. My most fundamental objection to double jeopardy is that the maximization of happiness among people who are alive is morally more important than the preservation in life of those people who are happiest. While double jeopardy would preserve the lives of happier people, I will argue, it would make existing people less happy overall. If I oppose the allocation of life-saving medical resources so as to maximize quality-adjusted life years, I may justly be asked on what alternative basis I would allocate such resources. My somewhat tentative view is that life-saving medical resources should be allocated so as to maximize life-expectancy, at least when life expectancy is based on age or on certain medical factors. (19) I would therefore accept one part of the QALY-maximization approach and reject the other part. Instead of maximizing quality-adjusted life years, I would maximize life years. Instem of discriminating against both the old and the disabled, I would just discriminate against the old. This article is intended as a critique of ableism, not a defense of ageism. At some points, however, I will consider why the arguments I offer against giving preference to the nondisabled are not equally good as arguments against giving preference to the young. In that context I will develop further my ageist approach.

**Your utilitarian calculations are flawed – they are rooted in a biopolitical mindset that tries to eradicate those that do not fit within the envisioned “perfect society.”**
**Overboe 06**—(James, Assistant Professor of Sociology at Wilfrid Laurier University, “Disability and Genetics: Affirming the Barelife (the State of Exception)*.” Pg.225)

Both the “quality-of-life” and “self-actualization” arguments that underscore the “disability problem” are based on the sacrifice of the problematic minority (the prospective disabled child) in the name of the common good (an able-bodied and privileged society). In regard to the .Deaf community and dwarf parents, the normative argument remains, although inverted. The minority (the prospective able-bodied child) is sacrificed in the name of the common good (for the good of the Deaf community and for the good of the dwarf familial unit). From a utilitarian sense, the eradication of prospective people that may be burdensome for others has an appeal (Hauerwas, 1995: 198).

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We aren’t responsible for the negative consequences of intervening actors</span>
**Gewirth 94**—Alan Gewirth, philosophy professor, Chicago, ABSOLUTISMAND ITS CONSEQUENTIALIST CRITICS, 1994, p. 38. (PDNSS1622)

An example of this principle may help to show its connection with the absolutist thesis. Martin Luther King, Jr. was repeatedly told that because he led demonstrations in support of civil rights, he was morally responsible for the disorders, riots, and deaths that ensued and that were shaking the American Republic to its foundations. By the principle of the intervening action, however, it was King’s opponents who were responsible because their intervention operated as the sufficient conditions of the riots and injuries. King might also have replied that the Republic would not be worth saving if the price that had to be paid was the violation of the civil rights of black Americans. As for the rights of other Americans to peace and order, the reply would be that these rights cannot justifiably be secured at the price of the rights of blacks. It follows from the principle of the intervening action that it is not the son but rather the terrorists who are morally as well as causally responsible for the many deaths that do or may ensue on his refusal to torture his mother to death. The important point is not that he lets these persons die rather than kills them, or that he does not harm them but only fails to help them, or that he intends their deaths obliquely but not directly. The point is rather that it is only through the intervening lethal actions of the terrorists that his refusal eventuates in many deaths. Since the moral responsibility is not the son’s, it does not affect his moral duty not to torture his mother to death, so that her correlative right remains absolute.

**Our in round discourse does matter – representations we use affect our cultural awareness of “disability rights,” create kinships with “the Other,” and allow us to refigure current body political trends**
**Rapp and Ginsburg 01** (Rayna, professor of Antropology at New York State University, and Faye, anthropologist, “Enabling Disability: Rewriting Kinship, Reimagining Citizenship,” pg. 434-435)

The proliferation of publicly circulating representations of disability as a form of diversity we all eventually share—through our own bodies or attachments to others—offers potential sites of identification and even kinship that extend beyond the biological family. In the United States in particular, such public representations of the connections (and disconnections) of disabled people and their families across embodied difference have helped to introduce a sense of public intimacy that, we argue, is crucial to redeeming the ADA promissory note of a polity “beyond ramps” (Russell 1998). The simultaneous emergence of the U.S. disability rights movement along with the escalation of reproductive and neonatal technologies has intensified cultural awareness of a range of broader issues. These increasingly both shape and destabilize contemporary kinship practices as well as debates among disability rights activists, feminists, bioethicists, and health service providers. Such concerns engage questions about medical ethics and the complexities of reproductive choice; concrete dilemmas about how to organize the practical logistics of care for disabled children; political and distributive queries about what citizens are owed; and conceptual questions about how disability is figured discursively. While such issues are often made the subject of public policy debate, they come already anchored in the daily and intimate practices of embracing or reject-ing kinship with disabled fetuses, newborns, and young children. We suggest, then, that disability criticism should encompass not only the public arenas of law, medicine, and education, or the phenomenology of embodiment. It also needs to engage the intimate arena of kinship as a site where contemporary social dramas around changing understandings and practices of reproduction and disability are often first played out. Although the term //kinship// is conventionally associated with the private or domestic sphere, we stress the cultural work performed by the circulation of kinship narratives through various public media as an essential element in the refiguring of the body politic as envisioned by advocates of both disability and reproductive rights.


**Contention Three is Solvency**

**Spaceflight for persons with disabilities breaks down the social construction of disabilities**
**Rycroft 02**—“Beyond the International Space Station: the Future of Human Spaceflight”, Google Books, Michael J, Faculty Member, International Space University

It is the contention and the challenge of this paper that a human spinal-cord injured person may well be better suited to long-term spaceflights than a normal person. There are aspects of the paralysed condition that may have advantages over the able-bodied for spaceflight: the chronically immobile system has already reached a stasic state. A chronically immobile astronaut may not need such intense in-flight exercise, and would therefore have more time for work and maintenance schedules, as well as a shorter recovery period on Earth, making the employee more cost effective. The Earth-bound disabled may no longer have a disability, but a greater ability, in space. Then we will better understand that the concept of physical disability is often a product of our own annealed environment rather than the physiological condition itself.

**Our discursive demand supporting persons with disabilities in space shapes ableism and normalcy**
**Arbour 10**—“Space shuttle program nears its end and outer space still inaccessible for people with disabilities,” Kathryn, writer, found of Capabilities.com, disabilities resource advocate, <span class="Hyperlink1">[[http://www.examiner.com/disability-in-denver/shuttle-program-nears-its-end-and-outer-space-still-inaccessible-for-people-with-disabilities]]</span>

Despite the many triumphs of the U.S. space program, some frontiers remain unexplored. No one with disabilities has gone into space. Dana Bolles, Flight Systems Safety Engineer at //NASA Kennedy Space Center//, writes about her disabilities and her desire to be an astronaut. “For me, I’ve always wanted to be an astronaut. I believe someday, disabled astronauts will be a reality.” Born without arms and legs, Bolles asks who, “after all, who can benefit more from being in space than disabled people? In microgravity the barriers are minimized.” She admits that she most likely will not benefit from changes that will eventually come to the astronaut program, but has satisfaction knowing she contributed to changing attitudes about people with disabilities.

**Plan will spark a broader movement in support of disability rights**
**Kanter 3**—Arlene Kanter et al, law at Syracuse University, 9/9/03, [[http://www.ncd.gov/newsroom/publications/2003/pdf/foreign03.pdf]], BBQ

The development of the full recommendations outlined in this report may be incremental. NCD recommends that one of the first steps in support of people with disabilities in development should be an initiative to support new disability organizations, leadership opportunities for individuals with disabilities, and human rights protections for people with disabilities as a whole. A civil society initiative for people with disabilities could provide the engine for participation by people with disabilities that could drive the long-term development of a much larger movement in both human rights and economic development.

**Plan is key to shattering our perfect-body ideals, liberate all people and foster a sense of global interconnectedness**
**Inahara 9**—Minae, PhD at the University of Hull, honorary research associate at the University of Hull , “This Body Which is Not One: The Body, Feminity and Disability”, Body & Society, March 9, 2009, JSTOR, BBQ

The perfect body, which is the able body, is simply not attainable. No matter what modifications are made, the idea that there is this perfect body is an impossibility. As an ideal, it is just that, ideal – unattainable. I suggest that another system is required; a system that acknowledges a range of bodily differences and that is based on the multiplicity and fluidity of bodies. It is one which also recognizes the vulnerability of all bodies. The system which I envisage will be constructed on the concept of multiplicity rather than that of simplicity. This system can liberate all people – all bodies. Such a system would not only liberate disabled people but also able-bodied people, in that it would disrupt the assumption that ability is positioned in only one way and thus liberate people to explore their own abilities. A system based on multiplicity would counter imagination with contact; it would decrease the gap between people, it would set up connections and challenge the boundaries that categorize people. This destabilization of boundaries might, in the end, produce the blurring of the able-bodied characteristics of the human body. We do not need a theory of disability that views disability as one side of a binary opposition. The dualistic structure operates by positing an opposing side in order to maintain one side’s appropriateness and legitimacy to distinguish it from that which it is not.

**Its imperative the United States takes action to send an international signal for disabilities rights**
**Lawson 10**—Opinion: An Accessible Chance for American Leadership, http://www.aolnews.com/2010/12/02/opinion-an-accessible-chance-for-american-leadership/, Dec 2, president of Paralyzed Veterans of America
[[http://www.aolnews.com/tag/president-obama/|President Barack Obama]] signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities last year, and dozens of other nations have already ratified it. Inspired by the ADA, in it exemplifies American leadership improving the lives of and increasing opportunities for all people with disabilities. The next step toward equality for all people with disabilities is for the Senate to ratify the convention -- in the same bipartisan way it passed the ADA. The U.S. International Council on Disabilities, along with Paralyzed Veterans of America and other organizations, is promoting ratification of the convention, which is designed to "promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights by persons with disabilities." The convention covers issues such as accessibility, personal mobility, <span style="color: #00127f;">[[http://www.aolnews.com/category/health|health]]</span>, education, employment, habilitation and rehabilitation, political involvement and nondiscrimination. Disability is a human rights issue and should not become the basis for marginalizing individuals and barring them from full participation in society, USICD says. We couldn't agree more. The United Nations established International Day of Persons With Disabilities in 1981 to coincide with International Year for Disabled Persons. This special day is designed to promote understanding of the rights of those with disabilities and the contributions people with disabilities can make to their communities. That goal mirrors Paralyzed Veterans' mission to empower all veterans and people with disabilities by working to ensure an America in which they can participate fully. As our world gets smaller, the need for American leadership in this vital area should not be an optional extra, but one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. It's an accessible opportunity that we shouldn't miss.
=Negative= 
==Payroll Tax Cuts DA== 
Obama is personally pushing PTC—and he is winning the fight
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hook, Wall Street Journal, 12/7/11</span>
Janet, “Tax Holiday Fight Threatens Capitol Holiday,” http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2011/12/07/tax-holiday-fight-threatens-capitol-holiday/

Mr. Obama’s desire to play a hands-on role in the payroll tax debate stands in contrast to his posture while Congress’ deficit reduction supercommittee collapsed last month. In the final days of the panel’s work, when it failed to meet its goal of crafting a $1.2 trillion deficit reduction plan, Mr. Obama was traveling abroad. The payroll tax, which finances Social Security, was temporarily cut from 6.2% to 4.2% as part of an anti-recession initiative last December and is due to expire Dec. 31. Leaders of both parties are hoping to prevent it from rising, loathe to increase taxes while the economy remains weak. However, Republicans are divided over the issue because many conservatives are opposed to extending the temporary tax break. Critics say it is ineffective as an economic stimulus, will weaken Social Security, and will add to the deficit – concerns that GOP leaders are trying to address by offsetting the bill’s cost with spending cuts. `Holidays come and holidays go,’’ said House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R.,Wis.). “It was never intended to be a permanent tax policy. The question these days more or less comes down to how to cut spending to pay for it. While the issue has divided Republicans, it has produced unusually close coordination between the White House and congressional Democrat, whose political interests have sometimes diverged over the last year as Mr. Obama has tried to strike centrist compromises with Republicans on deficit reduction and other issues. But on the payroll tax, Democrats in both Congress and the White House share an upbeat view that enjoy the political upper hand in debate on a popular tax cut that some Republicans are opposing.

Obama capital key.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The Hill 11-10-11</span>
(“White House thinks Obama has regained 'upper hand' with GOP on economy”, [[http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/192973-white-house-thinks-obama-has-regained-upper-hand-with-gop]], DOA: 11-10-11, ldg)

President Obama has regained the “upper hand” on economic issues with voters, according to White House officials, who warned Republicans that running against tax cuts for the middle class is a “very dangerous place to be.” The officials said the White House will ratchet up pressure on congressional Republicans in November and December to approve before the end of the year an extended and deepened employee payroll tax credit that was a key component of Obama’s jobs package. Obama will “put an intense focus in the closing weeks” on the payroll tax cut, the officials said. It’s the one element of the president's jobs bill that administration officials are betting heavily Republicans won’t hold up.One senior administration official said it is “incomprehensible” that Republicans will leave Washington “and on their way out of town wave to the American people and say, ‘We just raised your taxes $1,000.’ The official said he expects the debate over taxes going into the winter to be “fairly dramatic.”While Obama enjoys better approval ratings than congressional Republicans, his poll numbers suggest he has some work to do when it comes to the economy. Only 30 percent of voters in a Gallup poll this week said they approved of Obama’s handling of the economy. Republicans have blocked Obama’s jobs package and have also opposed pieces of the legislation in votes on the Senate floor. They agreed to the payroll tax cut last year as part of a deal that extended the Bush-era tax rates. The payroll tax cut is set to expire at the end of the year, but Obama has proposed to extend and deepen it. The White House officials blasted Republicans for stalling the jobs bill, and for possibly dooming the work of the deficit supercommittee. Democrats and the White House are blaming an impasse in the panel, charged with finding at least $1.2 trillion in cuts by Nov. 23, on GOP refusals to consider higher taxes on the rich. Republicans have argued Obama is rooting for a failure so that he can continue to run against a do-nothing Congress.Tax cuts for the wealthy are the “only reason” for the supercommittee impasse, a White House official said Thursday. “It's isolated down to that point.” The officials said it is “absurd” to claim the president wants the process to fail, blaming Republicans for halting progress and compromise at every turn over their “adherence” to the pledge not to raise taxes administered by conservative activist Grover Norquist and his Americans for Tax Reform. “The Republicans have held onto their views as they have seen their approval ratings reach single digits,” the official said.

The plan costs massive political capital - it has to compete against more important priorities

Denise Chow, 9-8-11 -- Masters in journalism from NYU, Correspondent @ Space.com, "NASA & Military After 9/11: Grappling with US Space Security," Space.com, [[http://www.space.com/12867-september-11-nasa-military-space-security.html|http://www.space.com/12867-september-11 ... urity.html]]

"The political will for space exploration, especially manned space, has suffered since 9/11, paying for the subsequent wars, and most recently the economic downturn," said Johnson-Freese. "There is significant rhetorical support – but not when prioritized against other areas of government spending. Americans are proud of the space program, but when jobs, 401(k)s and the debt are considered, there simply isn’t the political will to fund NASA to the level necessary for it to actually carry out a visionary – return to the moon, go to Mars, etc. – type program. "We are in a very difficult transition period between having a government-funded program and a largely private one. I don't think people realize hofw difficult it could be."

Key to avert double dip and solves long term growth
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Jacobs, Brookings governance studies fellow, 10-21-11</span>
(Elisabeth, “The Cost of Inaction on Job Creation Policies”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2011/1021_jobs_jacobs/1021_jobs_jacobs.pdf]], DOA: 10-26-11, ldg)

The payroll tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2011. 11 If Congress fails to extend the tax break, 121 million of working Americans will see a decrease in their take-home pay just in time for the arrival of their holiday bills. 12 In 2011, the payroll tax holiday boosted workers take-home pay by an estimated $120 billion. The average worker’s paycheck was $934 higher than it would have been in the absence of the tax break. If the cut expires, workers will owe more in taxes next year – for instance, each of the nation’s 2.7 million nurses would owe an average of $1,354 more in taxes in 2012 than she did in 2011, simply due to the failure of Congress to act. 13 The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office reports that the existing payroll tax cut is sound policy for boosting economic growth, because “the increase in take-home pay would spur additional spending by the households receiving the higher income, and that higher spending would, in turn, increase production and employment.” 14 A simple extension of the existing payroll tax holiday is necessary to protect the economy against further decline; it would do nothing to lift the economy onto a more sustainable trajectory toward growth and a healthy labor market. The President’s American Jobs Act includes a number of provisions with the potential to invigorate demand. First, it makes the existing tax cut for workers more generous by cutting payroll taxes in half. Second, it includes a cut to employers’ share of payroll taxes and a complete payroll tax holiday for employers who add workers or increase wages. Congressional action on some combination of an expansion of the existing employee payroll tax holiday and the creation of a targeted employer payroll tax holiday has the potential to spur the economy back into high gear and up the pace of job creation. The failure to do either amounts to sucking air from the tires of the flagging recovery.

Economic decline causes nuclear war
Mead 9 (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4, [[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]])

If current market turmoil seriously damaged the performance and prospects of India and China, the current crisis could join the Great Depression in the list of economic events that changed history, even if the recessions in the West are relatively short and mild. The United States should stand ready to assist Chinese and Indian financial authorities on an emergency basis--and work very hard to help both countries escape or at least weather any economic downturn. It may test the political will of the Obama administration, but the United States must avoid a protectionist response to the economic slowdown. U.S. moves to limit market access for Chinese and Indian producers could poison relations for years. <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">For billions of people in nuclear-armed countries to emerge from this crisis believing</span> either that <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">was indifferent</span> to their well-being or that it had profited from their distress <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">could damage U.S. foreign policy</span> far more <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">severely</span> than any mistake made by George W. Bush. It's not just the great powers whose trajectories have been affected by the crash. Lesser powers like Saudi Arabia and Iran also face new constraints. The crisis has strengthened the U.S. position in the Middle East as falling oil prices reduce Iranian influence and increase the dependence of the oil sheikdoms on U.S. protection. Success in Iraq--however late, however undeserved, however limited--had already improved the Obama administration's prospects for addressing regional crises. Now, the collapse in oil prices has put the Iranian regime on the defensive. The annual inflation rate rose above 29 percent last September, up from about 17 percent in 2007, according to Iran's Bank Markazi. Economists forecast that Iran's real GDP growth will drop markedly in the coming months as stagnating oil revenues and the continued global economic downturn force the government to rein in its expansionary fiscal policy. All this has weakened Ahmadinejad at home and Iran abroad. Iranian officials must balance the relative merits of support for allies like Hamas, Hezbollah, and Syria against domestic needs, while international sanctions and other diplomatic sticks have been made more painful and Western carrots (like trade opportunities) have become more attractive. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia and other oil states have become more dependent on the United States for protection against Iran, and they have fewer resources to fund religious extremism as they use diminished oil revenues to support basic domestic spending and development goals. None of this makes the Middle East an easy target for U.S. diplomacy, but thanks in part to the economic crisis, the incoming administration has the chance to try some new ideas and to enter negotiations with Iran (and Syria) from a position of enhanced strength. Every crisis is different, but there seem to be reasons why, over time, financial crises on balance reinforce rather than undermine the world position of the leading capitalist countries. Since capitalism first emerged in early modern Europe, the ability to exploit the advantages of rapid economic development has been a key factor in international competition. Countries that can encourage--or at least allow and sustain--the change, dislocation, upheaval, and pain that capitalism often involves, while providing their tumultuous market societies with appropriate regulatory and legal frameworks, grow swiftly. They produce cutting-edge technologies that translate into military and economic power. They are able to invest in education, making their workforces ever more productive. They typically develop liberal political institutions and cultural norms that value, or at least tolerate, dissent and that allow people of different political and religious viewpoints to collaborate on a vast social project of modernization--and to maintain political stability in the face of accelerating social and economic change. The vast productive capacity of leading capitalist powers gives them the ability to project influence around the world and, to some degree, to remake the world to suit their own interests and preferences. This is what the United Kingdom and the United States have done in past centuries, and what other capitalist powers like France, Germany, and Japan have done to a lesser extent. In these countries, the social forces that support the idea of a competitive market economy within an appropriately liberal legal and political framework are relatively strong. But, in many other countries where capitalism rubs people the wrong way, this is not the case. On either side of the Atlantic, for example, the Latin world is often drawn to anti-capitalist movements and rulers on both the right and the left. Russia, too, has never really taken to capitalism and liberal society--whether during the time of the czars, the commissars, or the post-cold war leaders who so signally failed to build a stable, open system of liberal democratic capitalism even as many former Warsaw Pact nations were making rapid transitions. Partly as a result of these internal cultural pressures, and partly because, in much of the world, capitalism has appeared as an unwelcome interloper, imposed by foreign forces and shaped to fit foreign rather than domestic interests and preferences, many countries are only half-heartedly capitalist. When crisis strikes, they are quick to decide that capitalism is a failure and look for alternatives. So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work; they have left the societies that have tried them in a progressively worse position, farther behind the front-runners as time goes by. Argentina has lost ground to Chile; Russian development has fallen farther behind that of the Baltic states and Central Europe. Frequently, the crisis has weakened the power of the merchants, industrialists, financiers, and professionals who want to develop a liberal capitalist society integrated into the world. Crisis can also strengthen the hand of religious extremists, populist radicals, or authoritarian traditionalists who are determined to resist liberal capitalist society for a variety of reasons. Meanwhile, the companies and banks based in these societies are often less established and more vulnerable to the consequences of a financial crisis than more established firms in wealthier societies. As a result, developing countries and countries where capitalism has relatively recent and shallow roots tend to suffer greater economic and political damage when crisis strikes--as, inevitably, it does. And, consequently, financial crises often reinforce rather than challenge the global distribution of power and wealth. This may be happening yet again. None of which means that we can just sit back and enjoy the recession. History may suggest that financial crises actually help capitalist great powers maintain their leads--but it has other, less reassuring messages as well. If financial crises have been a normal part of life during the 300-year rise of the liberal capitalist system under the Anglophone powers, so has war. The wars of the League of Augsburg and the Spanish Succession; the Seven Years War; the American Revolution; the Napoleonic Wars; the two World Wars; the cold war: The list of wars is almost as long as the list of financial crises. <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">Bad economic times</span> can <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">breed wars. Europe was a pretty peaceful place in 1928, but the Depression poisoned German public</span> opinion and helped bring Adolf Hitler to power. If the current crisis turns into a depression, what rough beasts might start slouching toward Moscow, Karachi, Beijing, or New Delhi to be born? The United States may not, yet, decline, but, <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">if we can't get the</span> world <span style="font-size: 9.5pt; text-decoration: none;">economy back on track, we may still have to fight</span>.

==Heidegger K== 
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Affirmative’s defense of American power creates the conditions for oppression and devastation—all beings become subject to violent calculation and planning </span>
Polt 7—PhD from U Chicago, Professor and Chair, Philosophy and Honors Program, at Xavier University (Richard, © 2007, //Interpretation//, “Beyond Struggle and Power: Heidegger’s Secret Resistence,” http://www.interpretationjournal.com/backissues/Vol_35-1.pdf, RBatra)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Heidegger now develops an extensive interpretation of this essence and its implications (for a clear summary, see especially GA 69, §57). Power has become the contemporary meaning of being: beings are now essentially manifestations of power and occasions for the use of power (Dallmayr 2001). Power seeks to overpower itself, overcoming its current level and increasing without limit as it “mobilizes” everything, subjecting all beings to it (GA 66, 62–63, 176; this interpretation of power stems from Heidegger’s reading of Nietzsche’s will to power—see “Nietzsche’s Metaphysics,” in Heidegger 1987, 195–96). This is the metaphysical root of contemporary phenomena such as “the ‘total’…the ‘imperial’…the ‘planetary’” (GA 66, 18). Heidegger expands the Contributions’ concept of machination and uses it to indicate “the makeability of beings, that makes and makes up everything” (GA 66, 16)—that is, the fact that beings appear as manipulable and producible objects. Machination empowers overpowering as the essence of power. The drive for overpowering creates oppression and devastation (GA 66, 20). Heidegger gives devastation a new meaning: it is not the destruction of objects, but the undermining of the possibility of decision: “beings no longer come into the decision of being” (GA 69, 48). We might hear an echo here of Kierkegaard’s critique of the present age: essential relationships have been reduced to “a reflective tension which leaves everything standing but makes the whole of life ambiguous: so that everything continues to exist factually whilst by a dialectical deceit, privatissime, it supplies a secret interpretation—that it does not exist” (Kierkegaard 1962, 42–43). Power thus destroys everything inceptive and all worth (GA 69, 74). It creates a “total organization” without true “commitment” (GA 69, 83). Under the sway of this organization, all beings and acts are viewed as subject to calculation and planning. However, the plans bring themselves into a wasteland that they cannot control, and necessarily run into the incalculable and unforeseeable (GA 69, 84). Power manifests itself as both “planetarism” and “idiotism,” where the first is the tendency to extend the rule of power over the entire Earth, while the second is a self-centered subjectivism that is turned in upon what is peculiar to it (idion) yet views all individuals through the same lens of the essence of modern subjectivity (GA 69, 74). The planet, we might say, is becoming one huge, greedy, anonymous subject. Heidegger resurrects a famous term from Being and Time and claims that this idiotic subject is “the unconditional essence of the ‘they’ in the history of be-ing” (GA 70, 35). Power knows no goals or standards other than itself; as violence, it uses itself to enhance itself (GA 69, 22, 75). This violence becomes a “brutality” that turns not only against other brutal forces but ultimately against itself (GA 69, 76–77). To call such machination “evil” would be to evade the genuine </span>horror of it: it dissolves the very standards of good and evil, the very<span style="text-decoration: none;"> concept of a final goal (GA 69, 217). Heidegger is talking about political power, of course, but also about how being itself is manifested in terms of power</span>, in everything from science to art. (Art is reduced to propaganda and kitsch—GA 66, 31, 174–75; the ideal of manliness becomes a muscle-bound figure with an empty, brutal face—GA 66, 34.) Even<span style="text-decoration: none;"> specifically political phenomena must be understood from a metaphysical, not political point of view (GA 69, 66). So Heidegger attributes little responsibility to dictators; we live under the “dictatorship” of power itself (GA 69, 20), not of persons such as Hitler. The so-called possessors of power cannot in fact get power within their grasp—instead, power possesses us (GA 69, 63–64). Those who appear to be free because they are powerful are in fact enslaved to power and warped by an interpretation of selfhood in terms of power. Because power destroys all moral and legal standards, the age of power must include the “planetary criminals”—unnamed individuals who Heidegger says can be counted on the fingers of one hand (GA 69, 77–78). Their destructiveness bursts the bounds of ethical judgment and legal punishment; “even Hell and the like is too small” for them (GA 69, 77). Power does not belong to the “powerful” tyrants, then, but neither does it belong to the people. The public face of power, its propaganda and pageantry, presents the power as belonging to society at large; but this “socialism” covers up the fact that the people is actually disempowered (GA 69, 82). The capacity for decision is obliterated by an atmosphere of declarations and commands (GA 66, 19); these create only a fanaticism that seizes on a ready-made appearance of salvation (GA 66, 119). Political action is then nothing but “calculating how to mobilize the masses as a whole” (Heidegger n.d., IX, §58a) or the “total planning of ‘life’ that is directed to self-securing” (GA 69, 100). The youth is particularly used and abused by this process, because young people are sufficiently ignorant and shameless to carry out “the planned destruction” without question (GA 66, 19). This entire so-called “struggle” is only the evasion of the “questionability of be-ing” (GA 66, 141). </span>

Such forms of technological thought only create the conditions that are the pre-requisite for nuclear wars—the consequences of such thought are more devastating than extinction
**Caputo 93—professor of Humanities at Syracuse, founder of weak theology, MA from Villanova, PhD from Bryn Mawr in Philosophy** (John Caputo, Demythologizing Heidegger, 1993 p. 136-141, [Miller])

In his essay "The Thing" Heidegger remarks upon the prospect of a nuclear conflagration which could extinguish all human life**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>** Man stares at what the explosion of the atom bomb could bring with it. He does not see that <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">what has long since taken place and has already happened expels from itself as its last emission the atom bomb and its explosion</span>—not to mention the single nuclear bomb, whose triggering, thought through to its utmost poten­tial, might be enough to snuff out all life on earth. (VA, 165/PLT, 166). In a parallel passage, he remarks: ... [Man finds himself in a perilous situation. Why? Just because a third world war might break out unexpectedly and bring about the complete annihilation of humanity and the destruction of the earth? No. In this dawning atomic age a far greater danger threatens—precisely when the danger of a third world war has been removed. A strange assertion! Strange indeed, but only as long as we do not meditate. (G, 27/DT, 56). The thinker is menaced by a more radical threat, is endangered by a more radical explosiveness, let us say by a more essential bomb, capable of an emission (hinauswerfen) of such primordiality that the explosion (Explosion) of the atom bomb would be but its last ejection. Indeed, the point is even stronger: even a nuclear bomb, or a wholesale exchange of nuclear bombs between nuclear megapowers, which would put an end to "all life on earth," which would annihilate every living being, human and nonhuman, <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">is a deriva­tive threat compared to this more primordial destructiveness.</span> There is a pros­pect that is more dangerous and uncanny—unheimhcher—than the mere fact that everything could be blown apart (Auseinanderplatzen von allem). There is something that would bring about more homelessness, more not-being­at-home (un-Heimlich) than the destruction of cities and towns and of their inhabitants. What is truly unsettling, dis-placing (ent-setzen), the thing that is really terrifying (das Entsetzende), is not the prospect of the destruction of human life on the planet, of annihilating its places and its settlers. Further­more, this truly terrifying thing has already happened and has actually been around for quite some time. This more essential explosive has already been set off; things have already been destroyed, even though the nuclear holocaust has not yet happened. What then is the truly terrifying? <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">The terrifying is that which sets everything that is outside </span>(heraussitzl) <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">of its own essence</span> (Wesen)'. What is this dis-placing [Entsetzendel? It shows itself and conceals itself in the way in which everything presences (anwest), namely, in the fact that despite all conquest of distances the nearness of things remains absent. (VA, 165/P1.T, 166) The truly terrifying explosion, the more essential destruction is that which dis-places a thing front its Wesen, its essential nature, its ownmost coming to presence. <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">The essential destruction occurs in the Being of a thing, not in its entitative actuality</span>; it is a disaster that befalls Being, not beings. The destruc­tiveness of this more essential destruction is aimed not directly at man but at "things" (Dirge), in the distinctively Heideggerian sense. The Wesen of things is their nearness, and it is nearness which has been decimated by technological proximity and speed. Things have ceased to have true nearness and farness, have sunk into the indifference of that which, being a great distance away, can be brought close in the flash of a technological instant. Thereby, things have ceased to be things, have sunk into indifferent nothingness. Something profoundly disruptive has occurred on the level of the Being of things that has already destroyed them, already cast them out of (herauswerfen¬) their Being. Beings have been brought close to Us technologically; enor­mous distances are spanned in seconds. Satellite technology can make events occurring on the other side of the globe present in a flash; supersonic jets cross the great oceans in a few hours. Yet, far from bringing things "near," this massive technological removal of distance has actually abolished nearness, for nearness <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">is precisely what withdraws in the midst of such technological frenzy</span>. Nearness is the nearing of earth and heavens, mortals and gods, in the handmade jug, or the old bridge at Heidelberg, and it can be experienced only in the quiet meditativeness which renounces haste. Thus the real destruction of the thing, the one that abolishes its most essen­tial Being and Wesen, occurs when the scientific determination of things pre­vails and compels our assent. The thingliness of the jug is to serve as the place which gathers together the fruit of earth and sun in mortal offering to the gods above. But all that is destroyed when pouring this libation becomes instead the displacement of air by a liquid; at that moment science has suc­ceeded in reducing the jug-thing to a non-entity (Nichtige). Science, or rather the dominion of scientific representation, the rule of science over what comes to presence, what is called the Wesen, which is at work in science and technol­ogy, that is the truly explosive-destructive thing, the more essential dis-placing. The gathering of earth and sky, mortals and gods, that holds sway in the thing—for "gathering" is what the Old High German thing means—is scat­tered to the four winds, and that more essential annihilation occurs <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">even if the bomb never goes off</span>: Science's knowledge, which is compelling within its own sphere, the sphere of objects, <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">already had annihilated things long before the atom bomb exploded</span>. The bomb's explosion is only the grossest of all gross confirmations of the long-since accomplished annihilation of the thing. (VA, 168/PLT, 170J When <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">things have been annihilated in their thingness, the mushroom clouds of the bomb cannot be far behind</span>. So whether or not the bomb goes off is not essential, does not penetrate to the essence of what comes to presence in the present age of technological proximities and reduced distances. What is essential is the loss of genuine nearness, authentic and true nearness, following <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">which the actual physical annihilation of planetary life would be a </span>"gross" confirmation, an unrefined, external, physical destruction that would be but a follow-up, another afterthought, a less subtle counterpart to a more inward, profound, essential, authentic, <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">ontological destruction</span>.

Our alternative isn’t a fatalistic rejection of technology—rather rejection is a form of releasement that reorients our relationship towards technological modes of thought
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Botha 02</span> (Catherine, Dept. of Philosophy @ Univ. of Pretoria, “Heidegger, Technology and Ecology,” South African Journal of Philosophy, Vol 22, Issue 2, p. ebscohost)

Homelessness is the mood of the technological age. Rediscovering our worldly home as threatened, signals the “restoring surmounting” of technology. Memory or recollective thought chiefly summons this sense of a threatened sanctuary. Recollecting our worldly habitat not only fosters resistance to Das Gestell, but also Provides guidance in how human being relates to the products of technology. Heidegger acknowledges that we need not reject the products or skills of technology. He says that we can not repudiate the technological world of to day as the “work of the devil”, nor should we destroy it, assuming that it does not do this to it self (Heidegger, 1993:330). Heidegger does not advocate a retreat to a pre-technological state of being, nor does he suggest that we fatalistically re sign our selves to the victory of Das Gestell. Fatalism is no answer because it reflects the same absence of thought that is evidenced in a naive complacency with technological progress. We can say both “yes” and “no” to technology by having an attitude of releasement toward things. In other words, although it is crucial to perceive the danger of our technological constructions lest they dominate us, it is unnecessary to reject them completely. The alternative to be coming slaves of our own machines is not simply to become their masters. The goal is to integrate technology within a bounded worldly dwelling no longer ordered by possessive mastery. The attitude required to free ourselves from possessive mastery and achieve an appropriate relation to technology is one of awaiting and receiving, openness and releasement. <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Releasement towards things and openness to the mystery grant us the possibility of dwelling in the world in a different way</span>: a way where the mood of homelessness has been displaced. Until this occurs, our attempts to control the products of technology will only sustain our subordination to it. The irony is that the “freedom” that has been nurtured for two and a half millennia in the West has encouraged this technological servitude.

Loss of essence outweighs extinction and makes extinction from nihilism inevitable. Recapturing the essence of being is a prerequisite to reestablishing a proper form of ethics and politics.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">de Beistegui, 97(Miguel, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Warwick Heidegger and the Political, ed. by K. Ansell-Pearson and S. Critchely, p.71, ASG)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Yet, at this point, everything happens as if our postmodern condition were nothing but the experience of the unlimited acceleration of time, an acceleration that results in the “spatialisation” of the planet (and of the universe as a whole), that is, in the absolute domination of space in the form of total and readily available presence. The need of being is no longer needed. The essential unfolding of presence has withdrawn, and we are left with beings in the form of standing-reserve. As a result, man is for the first time confronted with the greatest of all dangers, a danger far greater than that of the total and destructive unleashing of power over the earth, and that is the danger of the threat of the annihilation of his essence. The essence of man consists in being needed by being. So long as we do not envisage the destination of man according to his essence, so long as we do not think of man together with being, but solely with the unrelentless releasing of beings, nihilism will continue to prevail, both in essence and in actuality. In essence, as the most extreme manifestation of the </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Seinsvergessenheit; </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">in actuality, as the politics of world domination, which our “democracies” seem to carry out with particular effectiveness. Thus, a politics that concerns itself only with “man,” and not with the </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">essence </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">of man is bound to nihilism as to its most intimate fate. Does this mean that Heidegger promotes something like a politics of being? No, insofar as politics is always and irreducibly ontic: it concerns man’s relation to man. Yet this relation is itself made subject to the way in which being claims man. There can be no politics of being, whether in the sense of a politics inspired by being or with being as its object, because being cannot be the stake of a political program or will. A politics of being is as meaningless as an ethics of being. Yet neither ethics nor politics can be without the prior disclosure of the epochal configuration within which they emerge. In this sense, ethics and politics are always of being. Both ethics as dwelling and politics as place point to man’s necessity to find an abode on this earth and to dwell amongst beings. And if Heidegger is so weary of ethics and politics, it is precisely insofar as these modes of dwelling no longer satisfy man’s essence, no longer provide man with an abode that is adequate to his essence, in other words, no longer constitute the space of his freedom understood as freedom for his essence (for his relation to the default of being), but are entirely summoned by the power of machination. Unless we come to think of ethics and of politics as the site of a conversion toward the essence of being, a site in which man would find his proper place. </span>

==Launches DA== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Increased launches collapse ozone</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ross and Zittell 2k – Both PhDs in relevant fields</span>Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2000, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, [[http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html]]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Rocket emissions have two distinct effects on ozone: short-term and long-term. Following launch, rapid chemical reactions between plume gases and particles and ambient air that has been drawn into the plume wake cause immediate changes in the composition of the local atmosphere</span>. During <span style="text-decoration: none;">this phase,</span> which <span style="text-decoration: none;">lasts for several hours, the concentrations of radicals in the plume can be thousands of times greater than the concentrations found in the undisturbed stratosphere, and the ozone loss is dramatic</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Long-term effects occur as gas and particulate emissions from individual launches become dispersed throughout the global stratosphere and accumulate over time</span>. The concentrations of emitted compounds reach an approximate global steady state as exhaust from recent launches replaces exhaust removed from the stratosphere by natural atmospheric circulation.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Extinction</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Thomas 6 </span>William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, [[http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm]]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns that</span> chemtrails, airliners and <span style="text-decoration: none;">shuttle launches are weakening the stratosphere and destroying Earth’s ozone layer—threatening all life on Earth</span>. It was one of those messages that phones are notorious for delivering—the kind of call that cancels the sleep and makes flu symptoms worse. But this time, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the health of the entire planet was at stake</span>. A concerned Canadian scientist named Neil Finley was on the line to inform me that high-altitude jet traffic, <span style="text-decoration: none;">space launches</span> and chemtrails <span style="text-decoration: none;">are threatening to destroy not only Earth’s protective radiation shielding—but the stratosphere itself.</span>

==Orbital Slots CP== 
COUNTERPLAN SOLVES THE AFF AND SETS A PRECEDENT FOR EFFICIENT USE OF SCARCE SLOTS
Journal of Space Law 06 (“Legal Issues Relating to the Global Public Interest in Outer Space,” Ram Jakhu, [[http://www.spacelaw.olemiss.edu/jsl/pdfs/back-issues/jsl-32-1.pdf]])

Access to the most appropriate radio frequencies and orbital locations in outer space is essentially based on a first-come, first-served practice, which has been a major concern to a large number of countries, especially in the third world. Countries such as India and Indonesia, the first of the developing countries that attempted to use GEO, faced undue difficulties in securing access for their earlier satellites. The legal principles and rules that regulate access to and use of radio frequencies and orbital positions have been adopted through international conferences organized by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the oldest specialized agency of the UN. Article 44 (2) of the ITU Constitution recognizes that radio frequencies and orbital positions are limited international resources, and imposes an obligation on ITU member States to use them efficiently and economically in order to ensure equitable access by all countries. 126 While no definition of “equitable access” is found in the ITU Constitution, some of the provisions make the meaning of this term clear: (a) the special needs of the developing countries and the geographical situation of particular countries must be taken into account while making use of the radio frequencies and orbital positions, and (b) countries may have equitable access and tedious process, equitable access has been effected, so far, only to a limited extent and through two allotment plans for (a) the Broadcasting Satellite Service operating in 12 GHz band and associated feeder links, and (b) the Fixed Satellite Service operating in 6/4 GHz and 14/11 GHz bands. The rarity of such plans can be attributed to the unwillingness of some powerful member States of ITU to accept restrictions on their freedom of action in the use of radio frequencies and orbital positions. Consequently, the practice of first-come, first-served continues to apply to all frequency bands for satellite telecommunication services, except those mentioned above. A serious problem in access to radio frequencies and orbital positions has arisen, particularly with respect to the geostationary orbit, not only because the GEO is limited, but also because several countries, mainly the developed ones, started registering so-called ‘paper satellites’ with the ITU. According to an ITU paper titled Paper Tigers: The Scramble for Space Spectrum, some States reserve orbital “positions and frequency bands for possible future use, or for commercial resale to another user at a later date.”127 In 1998, INTELSAT presented the data about the most used C and Ku bands according to which INTELSAT had registered 25 slots but was actually using only 19. Similarly, the number for the U.S. was 74 registered and 36 actually occupied slots, and Russia had registered 58 orbital positions when it using only 25. In view of such an apparent practice of hoarding orbital positions and radio frequencies, INTELSAT announced its intention of “deregistering” eight orbital slot registrations with the ITU in order to “set an example [for] efficient use of scarce orbital resources.” 128 These slots had been registered by INTELSAT and never used. Although INTELSAT claimed this was motivated by an effort to improve orbit utilization, the reactions from outsiders were quite different. For example, an American private satellite company, PamAmSat, declared that the returned slots were anyway completely unusable. 129 It should be noted that it is not the actual satellite in orbit but early registration of that satellite with the ITU that blocks the placing of other satellites in the same location in the GEO. only in conformity with the ITU Radio Regulations. Since modifying these Regulations is a long The “paper satellite” problem has been real and wide spread.130 According to ITU, in 2002 the backlog of satellite systems awaiting full registration stood at around 1200 when ITU was regularly receiving between 400-500 requests for new systems each year, only around one tenth of which would ever be launched.

ORBITAL SLOT CONFLICT CAUSES MAJOR WAR
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Hyten 2k (John E., A Sea of Peace or a Theater of War: Dealing with the Inevitable Conflict in Space. Urbana-Champaign, IL: Program in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security, April 2000. “Space War Inevitable Due to Economic Motives” [[http://www.spacedebate.org/about/backfileOct.doc|www.spacedebate.org/about/backfileOct.doc]])</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The pressures on the space frontier are enormous -- from both an economic and a military perspective. Looked at in isolation, each of these pressures is severe enough to create conflict. In combination, they create the risk that future space conflicts could result in war -- either on earth, in space, or both. On the economic front, conflict has already occurred because of crowding in GEO orbits and through saturation of the available radio spectrum. On the military front, conflict has been avoided because the United States, in recent years, has retained an effective monopoly on the use of space during conflict. Conflicts involving the commercial use of space will continue to increase as crowding increases. There are limited unoccupied slots at GEO and a limited spectrum remaining to be allocated. On the military side, one cannot imagine the United States allowing an enemy to either threaten U.S. space capabilities or use space systems to their advantage, putting the U.S. at risk. Conflict involving space systems could be a significant part of the next major theater war involving the United States. </span>

==2NRs== 
===Dowling=== 
Round 1: GBN NS (ASATs)
1NC: T - Human Commercial, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Heidegger K, Orbital Slots CP, Launches DA, Case
2NC: Payroll, Orbital Slots
1NR: Case
2NR: Payroll, Case

Round 4: Rosemount JK (SSA)
1NC: T - Human Commercial, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Heidegger K, Orbital Slots CP, Launches DA, Case
2NC: Payroll, Orbital Slots
1NR: Case
2NR: Orbital Slots

Round 6: Homewood-Flossmoor GS (TSPS)
1NC: T - Human Commercial, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Heidegger K, Orbital Slots CP, Launches DA, Case
2NC: Heidegger
1NR: Orbital Slots
2NR: Orbital Slots