[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


**Contention 1 --- __Inherency__**

**NEO detection is underfunded --- preventing NASA from beginning key projects**
**New Yorker 11**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“Vermin of the Sky; Who Will Keep The Planet Safe From Asteroids?”, 2-28, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the moment, the number of asteroids... would be "too costly.")</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Current detection and deflection measures fail</span>**
**New Yorker 11**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“Vermin of the Sky; Who Will Keep The Planet Safe From Asteroids?”, 2-28, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That was a long time... The issue's an orphan.</span>




**Advantage 1 --- __NEO Strikes__**

**NEOs could hit any time without warning --- lack of detection technology leaves us helpless**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies”, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.ed u/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2. In December 2004, astronomers determined ... in the relatively near future.</span>

**Even small NEOs are the same as nuking all of France at once**
Easterbrook 8<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A more recent event gives... don't reach Earth's surface.</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">New Survey Proves the Earth is at risk from 70 Earth-killers and 15,000 Mid-Sized Asteroids </span>**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">DUNPHY</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> **11** [MARK 400-Metre Asteroid Flyby Due In Early November -Oct 01, 2011</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">http://www.irishweatheronline.com/news/space/asteroids/400-metre-asteroid-flyby-due-in-early-november/32083.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The situation is different for... of these bodies left to find.</span>

**Strikes are likely --- two distinctions:**

**1st --- //__LPCs__// --- they’re likely, evade current defenses and risk extinction**
**IAA 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing With The Threat To Earth From Asteroids And Comets”, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Detection of Long-Period Comets... effects before one impacts the Earth.</span>

**2nd --- //__Small NEOs__// --- they’re extremely frequent and pass through current detection**
**Binzel 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard, Professor of Planetary Sciences – MIT, “Richard Binzel on Near-Earth Asteroids”, Space Daily, 7-1, http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Richard_Binzel_on_near_Earth_asteroids_999.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Actually, asteroids of this size... caught in their search pattern.</span>




**Contention 2 --- Impact Framing**

**It’s __try-or-die__ --- comet or asteroid impact is __inevitable__ and causes extinction**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Professor of Physics – University of Memphis, Impact: The Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years... that will determine our fate.</span>

**The impact is __extinction__ --- //unprecedented magnitude// and //aperiodic strikes// shatter traditional considerations of “timeframe” and mean we should treat NEO threats as __imminent__**
**Brownfield 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roger, Gaishiled Project, “A Million Miles a Day”, Presentation at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth From Asteroids, 2-26, [[http://www.aiaa.org/ccontent.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&g]] ID=17092)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once upon a time there was a Big Bang... and its attendant fear.</span>

**Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises --- only they cause //any type of extinction//**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Chapman 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have argued [59] that... traces in the fossil record.</span>

**A //large asteroid// impact is extinction --- only our impact ends all life on Earth instantaneously**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">IAA 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing With The Threat To Earth From Asteroids And Comets”, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2-3 km Diameter Civilization Destroyer... civilization inherently fragile or robust?</span>


**Our evidence is comparative --- nuclear war, environmental destruction, terrorism and economic collapse are all dwarfed by an asteroid impact**
Steel 2<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Joule Physics Laboratory, University of Salford (October 24, Duncan, “ Neo Impact Hazard: the Cancer Metaphor ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf pg. 93)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Cancer Metaphor: Why... a hurricane in its path.</span>

**Asteroid impacts outweigh more frequent threats - Their timeframe arguments are logically flawed**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Huebner et al. 9 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[W.F. Huebner, L.N. Johnson, D.C. Boice, P. Bradley, S. Chocron, A. Ghosh, P.T. Giguere, R. Goldstein, J. A. Guzik, J. J. Keady, J. Mukherjee, W. Patrick, C. Plesko, J.D. Walker, K. Wohletz, 2009, published in Astronomicheskii Vestnik, 2009, Vol. 43, No. 4, pp. 348–356. PN]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Others have argued that there... comet nuclei with Earth.</span>

**Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — math is conclusively on our side**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Program on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]], Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding probability constant, risks... direct benefit of such an action. </span>

**Catastrophic impacts pale in comparison to existential ones — their impacts are recoverable while ours are game over**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>**Bostrom 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Program on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2009 (“The Future of Humanity,” //Geopolitics, History and International Relations//, Volume 9, Issue 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library, Reprinted Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/papers/future.pdf, Accessed 07-06-2011, p. 11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Extinction risks constitute an... small misstep for mankind.</span>

**Any solvency deficit of the CP should get the full weight of our aff- the one they don’t detect could be the one that hits**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Barbee 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is generally accepted that... for defense against NEOs.</span>



**Contention 3 --- No Impact**

**Nuclear war is survivable and nuclear winter isn’t real**
**NYQUIST 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these... few (if any) fallout casualties.</span>

**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction – models prove**
**Seitz 6** **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for InternationalAffairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, [[http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">All that remains of Sagan's Big Chill... so far aloft for so long? </span>

**Belief in nuclear extinction is only media fearmongering**
**Martin 82** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(k) Media. The media tend to... and content of the media.</span>

**Effects of nuclear war are exaggerated and don’t consider ways to avoid the effects**
**Martin 84** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA, SANA UPDATE, MARCH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Opponents of war, including scientists... greatly extending reserves of food.</span>

**No extinction – fallout, ozone, fires and nuclear winter are wrong**
**Martin 82** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(a) Global fallout. The main effect... population though climactic change.</span>

**Even the worst possible nuclear war would leave 90% of the population unhurt**
**Martin 82** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To summarize the above points... earth, is highly misleading. </span>

**Nuclear Taboo is too strong to overcome - no country has the motivation**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Perkovich 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(George Perkovich, International Convention on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, May, 2009, “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear Free World,” __[[http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich%20Deterrence.pdf|http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich Deterrence.pdf]]__)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The reality today is that... aggression against Taiwan first.</span>



**Nuclear Taboo can't be overcome and major war is obsolete - empirics**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Perkovich 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(George Perkovich, International Convention on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, May, 2009, “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear Free World,” __[[http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich%20Deterrence.pdf|http://www.icnnd.org/Documents/Perkovich Deterrence.pdf]]__)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The underlying difficulty, of course... was a political taboo."</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Plan</span>__**</span>

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of near-Earth objects and its development of near-Earth object deflection systems, including telescopes, radar, and deflection technology.**


**Contention 4** **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">---</span>** **__Solvency__**

**Plan allows new telescopes, radar, redundancy and development of deflection tech**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Research Council, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The committee outlined three... in situ characterization and mitigation.</span>

**Research on deflection methods //now// is key to effectiveness --- detection alone means tech will be undeveloped and untested**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Research Council, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WARNING TIME FOR MITIGATION... will be the most likely one.</span>

**Combination of ground and space-based observations is key --- they provide complementary data necessary to accurately deflect**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Research Council, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Combined ground- and space-based surveys... change in risk over that time.</span>

**Adding warning time solves- key to tech development and deflection**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Easterbrook 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">None of this will be easy... than designing the technology.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US is key- only country with resources and capability</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman 9</span> (Taylor, author and journalist based in New York City, The new politics of planetary defense, Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1)

While the US is obviously... setting the stage for disaster.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]