===Cites/Note:=== 

**Jacob and Daniel are partners as of Golden Desert:**
**Previous wikis, for 2NRs and other aff./neg. stuff:**
Jacob Kahn - [[2011-2012 - Glenbrook North (IL) - Jacob Kahn & Sahar Merchant|Jacob Kahn and Sahar Merchant]]
Daniel - [[2011-2012 - Glenbrook North (IL) - Daniel Hensel & Daniel Newman|Daniel Newman and Daniel Hensel]]

Aff. cites: [[mailto:newman1023@gmail.com|newman1023@gmail.com]]
Neg. cites: [[mailto:jacobkahn1@gmail.com|jacobkahn1@gmail.com]]


[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Golden Desert - ASATs Affirmative== 
===Deterrence Adv.=== 

**Weaponization by other countries is inevitable- means the only option is for the US to weaponize space- that’s key to heg- the U.S needs to get there first to prevent an arms race**
**Dolman 10** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, <span class="s1">[[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]]</span>,)
This is the … space is remote.

**Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence – multiple adversaries with different military doctrines invite attack**
**Rendleman, 10** - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)
The 11 January … adversary attack capabilities.

**These risks are compounded globally- 40 countries have ASAT technology**
<span class="s2">**Donahue, 10** – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” <span class="s3">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>)</span>
Currently, the configuration … to other satellites.

**Nations already perceive U.S weaponization means it’s inevitable**
**Brown, 9** (Spring, 2009, Trevor, Air Force Research Institute Center for Security Studies, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization”,<span class="s1">[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=cab359a3-9328-19cc-a1d2-8023e646b22c&lng=en&id=121733]]</span>)
The United States … on arms control.

**Realism means states see inevitably see it as a way to maximize their power and security**
**Cooper, 9** – Analyst Assistant at National Research Council (Brent, “Lost in Space: A Realist and Marxist Analysis of US Space Militarization”, http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization)
<span class="s3">In **i**nternational **r**elations</span>

**Chinese doctrine, spending, and actions all portend an attack on US space assets - it will likely escalate**
**Wortzel, 8** - Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY
AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)
The PLA is … any future conflict.

**We’ll isolate a couple of internal links to heg:**

**a) Weaponization’s key to protect space assets that are vital to terrestrial military dominance**
**Dolman 5** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” September 14th, <span class="s1">[[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]]</span>, EMM)
The United States… the United States.

**b) Space weapons are key to overall US tech leadership - that’s key to heg**
**Dolman and Cooper 11** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, <span class="s1">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>, EMM)
Space weapons are … lose its preeminence.

**c) Space weapons are key to giving the US the tactical and diplomatic high ground necessary to sustaining leadership**
**Dolman 3** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Space Weapons: Are They Needed?,” From Chapter 2: Space Power and US Hegemony: Maintaining a Liberal World Order in the 21st Century, October,<span class="s1">[[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf]]</span>, EMM)
The goals here … and oppression can.

**Hegemonic decline does** <span class="s3">**not**</span> **cause multilateralism—it results in** <span class="s3">**great power war**</span> **and a** <span class="s3">**collapse of the global order**</span>**—heg is** <span class="s3">**sustainable**</span> **and** <span class="s3">**good**</span>
**Kagan, 12** (1/17/2012, “Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline”, Robert, yeah that dude, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0117_us_power_kagan.aspx)
In the U.S…. live in.

**Even if weaponization’s not inevitable, the plan’s still necessary for hegemony**
<span class="s4">**Mueller, 2**</span> (3/27/2002, Karl P., Senior Political Scientist with the RAND corporation specializing in air and space strategy and other defense policy issues, “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?”, <span class="s4">http://isanet.ccit.arizona.edu/noarchive/mueller.html</span>)
Yet in the end… for doing it.

**There’s no root cause of war, but deterrence empirically and historically decreases wars likelihood**
**Moore, 4** – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, page 27-31.
As so broadly… wars had occurred.

**We solve your heg turns - interventionism is inevitable however the plan would result in a more benign form that solves backlash to primacy**
**Dolman 10** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, <span class="s1">[[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]]</span>, EMM)
There is little … future American empire.

**Spacepower is critical to global stability and conflict resolution - provides transparency to reduce miscalculation, strengthens dissuasion power, and deters conflict**
**Smith 11** (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press,<span class="s1">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>, EMM)
Spacepower provides different … deterrence more effective.

**The risk of crisis instability and miscalculation in space is high – the PLA is likely to initiate an attack in a crisis**
**MacDonald, 11** - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)
One characteristic of … likely to grow.

**That independently risks miscalc and nuclear escalation- deterrence theory proves attack would leave us incapable of retaliation**
**Burke, 6** – Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” <span class="s1">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]]</span>)
The erosion of … fear of retribution.57

**That’s Extinction**
**Cheong 2k** (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)
THE high-intensity …destruction of civilization.

**Independently, perceived vulnerability to a Space Pearl Harbor will cause the US to preemptively strike China - causes escalation**
**Tellis 7** (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)
Finally, the growing … and further misperception.96


===Iran Adv.=== 

**Iran is proliferating—all current methods to combat it** <span class="s1">**fail**</span> **because the facilities are underground and trigger a war—further direct US involvement would cede terrestrial heg to china**
**Rachman 1/26/12** (Gideon, chief foreign affairs columnist for the Financial Times and edited The Economist’s business and Asia sections, “Iran nuclear stance rings alarm bells at Davos” Financial Times, 1/26/12, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/1054d79e-482c-11e1-a4e5-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1kb8Saskq)
The risk of conflict… gift to China.

**That ensures all status quo prevention methods fail—having earth penetrating weapons is the lynchpin of effective deterrence**
**Colby 2011** (Elbridge Colby is a research analyst at CNA and has served in several national security positions with the U.S. Government, most recently with the Department of Defense working on the follow-on to the START Treaty and as an expert advisor to the Congressional Strategic Posture Commission, “WHY WE SHOULD STUDY DEVELOPING NUCLEAR EARTH PENETRATORS – AND WHY THEY ARE ACTUALLY STABILIZING”, Foreign Policy Research Institute, May 2011, http://www.fpri.org/enotes/201105.colby.nuclear.html)
One of the most pressing… U.S. reprisal.


**Than plan is comparatively the best option to deter Iran—every other method fails**
**Goldfarb 2005** (Michael, B.A. in history from Princeton University, a research associate at the Project for the New American Century, contributing editor for The Weekly Standard, served as John McCain's deputy communications director, "The Rods from God: Are Kinetic Energy Weapons the Future of Space Warfare?." Weekly Standard, June 8, 2005)
Clearly the rods… accurate intelligence).

**Iran prolif goes global** **and nuclear—extinction**
**Wimbush and Ford, 10** (S. Enders Wimbush, Senior Vice President for International Programs and Policy at Hudson Institute, and Christopher A. Ford, senior fellow and director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at Hudson Institute, 1-14-10, Hudson Institute, Perspectives Upon a Nuclear Iran)
Possession of nuclear… everyone else.

**Space weapons make warfare** <span class="s1">**obsolete**</span> **and** <span class="s1">**suicidal**</span>**, terminally preventing —the plan solves all countermeasures** <span class="s1">**and**</span> **your DAs**
**Aubin & Streland 2000** (Stephen P, professor, School of Continuing Studies, Georgetown U; senior-developer, Boeing Company Missile Defense Systems Division and C3 Networks Division; director of Strategy Execution, Raytheon Company Corporate Strategy group; former director of external affairs, Space-Based Laser Integrated Flight Experiment Program; former director of policy and communications, the Air Force Association; research fellow, deputy director, Center for Defense Journalism; former managing editor, Defense Media Review; former managing editor, Airpower History; former associate editor and contributing editor, Strategic Review; former editor of Military Intelligence magazine; PhD, Boston U; & Arnold H., Commander, Space Superiority Systems Wing, Air Force; colonel, USAF; former Chief, Space Based Laser Program Management Division; Air War College; “ The Space-Based Laser Integrated Flight Experiment: Global Missile Defense in the Boost Phase” Team SBL-IFX; October, 2000; http://www.wslfweb.org/docs/SBLWP.pdf)
Where the SBL fits… boost phase.


===Plan Text=== 

The United States federal government should deploy space based anti-satellite weapons in low earth orbit beyond the earth’s mesosphere.


===Solvency=== 

**The plan avoids your international perception disads**
**AAAS 05**; American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AAAS), The Physics of Space Security: A Reference Manual, which was authored by UCS scientists David Wright, Laura Grego, and Lisbeth Gronlund. “Technical Implications of Space Weapons and General Conclusions Section 12: Topics in Interfering with Satellites” 5/21
Although the development… low earth orbit.

**Even if they win a link to their DAs, the impacts are empirically denied—Russia proves**
**Kramer 1/10/12** (Andrew, NYT staff author “Russian Official Suggests Weapon Caused Exploration Spacecraft’s Failure” New York Times, 1/10/12, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/11/science/space/russian-official-suggests-weapon-caused-spacecraft-failure.html)
A Russian spacecraft… Chinese Mars orbiter.

**And there’s no congressional or budgetary perception**
**Patton, 03** (Phil, Wired.com, “Exposing the Black Budget”, http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/3.11/patton_pr.html)
In the world's… ruled out.

**The plan is comparatively the best option—we just have to act now**
**Dolman and Cooper 11** (Everett, Ph.D. and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, EMM)
Space is too vast… a space arms race.

**A code of conduct would only hamstring our military capabilities and give adversaries a window of opportunity to attack**
**Gertz 1/16/12** (Bill, National security columnist for The Washington Times and senior editor at The Washington Free Beacon, “New space-arms control initiative draws. Critics say military activities will be compromised” Washington Times, 1/16/12, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/jan/16/new-space-arms-control-initiative-draws-concern/?page=all#pagebreak)
The Obama administration… since 1998.

**And it** <span class="s1">**successfully**</span> **prevents large-scale slaughter of billions---the** <span class="s1">**consequences**</span> **of breakdown** <span class="s1">**morally justify**</span> **it---deontological rules** <span class="s1">**don’t**</span> **apply**
**Kavka, 87** – Professor of Philosophy at UC Irvine, 1987 (Moral Paradoxes of Nuclear Deterrence, pg. 5)
The choice among possible… nuclear deterrence.

==ISTA - China Coop. Affirmative== 

===China Adv.=== 

**Contention 1 is China:**

**China is militarizing space – failure to respond kills space leadership, nuclear deterrence, and leads to a space arms race**
Richard D. <span class="s1">**Fisher**</span> -- a senior fellow at the International Assessment and Strategy Center in Alexandria, Va, (1/20/<span class="s1">**11**</span>, <span class="s1">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704320104575014341463615862.html|article]]</span>, Caplan)
<span class="s2">China's</span><span class="s3"> Jan. 11 </span><span class="s2">test of exoatmospheric… **region's economic growth**</span><span class="s4">**.**</span>

**Chinese actions mean they will attack our space assets**
**Wortzel, 8** - Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)
<span class="s2">The PLA is exploring… have to fight the U.S</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**Nuclear deterrence is key to solve multiple scenarios for extinction**
Mark <span class="s1">**Schneider**</span> -- senior Analyst with the National Institute for Public Policy, Ph.D in history at the University of Southern California and JD from George Washington University, former senior officer in the DoD in positions relating to arms control and nuclear weapons policy, (July 20<span class="s1">**08**</span> , “The Future of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Comparative Strategy 27.4, Ebsco)
Today, <span class="s6">the</span> United States… reported in the press.8

**Accidental nuclear war**
Sherwood <span class="s1">**Ross**</span> **-**- reporter for the Chicago Daily News, (“Space Race Increasing Risk of Nuclear War,” Atlantic Free Press, Saturday, April 09, 20<span class="s1">**09**</span>, pg. )
<span class="s2">**An unchecked race…** nuclear war,” he said.</span>

**These tensions threaten the relationship – causes full-scale war**
John <span class="s1">**Chan**</span> – frequent contributor to Global Research, political analyst with WSW (2/22/<span class="s1">**11**</span>, "US threatens “military option” against China over space arms race," http://www.wsws.org/articles/2011/feb2011/usch-f22.shtml, RG)
<span class="s2">US diplomatic cables released… **between the US and China.**</span>

**China war escalates and goes nuclear**
Lee J. <span class="s1">**Hunkovic**</span> **--** professor at American Military University, (“The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, American Military University, 20<span class="s1">**09**</span>, p.54)
<span class="s7">A war between China… </span>considered in this study.

**That causes extinction**
Mitsuo<span class="s1"> **Takai** --</span> retired colonel and former researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force, (20<span class="s1">**09**</span>, “U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, [[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]], Caplan)
What would happen<span class="s7"> if… </span>by nuclear hard-liners.

**Miscommunication with china risks war – only the plan can solve**
Dr. Joan<span class="s1"> **Johnson-Freese** -- </span>serves as Chair, Department of National Security Studies, at the U.S. Naval War College. Previously, she was on the faculty at the Asia Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu, Hawaii; at the Air War College in Montgomery, Alabama; and the Director of the Center for Space Policy & Law at the University of Central Florida. Dr. Johnson-Freese has testified before the U.S. Congress on several occasions regarding Chinese space activities and space security issues generally. She is on the editorial board of China Security and a member of the International Academy of Astronautics. Dr. Johnson-Freese’s most recent book is entitled ‘Space as a Strategic Asset’, released in March 2007 by Columbia University Press, (<span class="s1">**2007**</span>, “China’s Space Ambitions”, [[http://www.ifri.org/downloads/China_Space_Johnson_Freese.pdf|www.ifri.org/downloads/China_Space_Johnson_Freese.pdf]], Caplan)
<span class="s3">As stated at the beginning… </span><span class="s2">increase the security of all.</span>

**And it prevents miscalculation in space**
Tracey L. **Hayes --** Lieutenant at the US Air Force, (“Proposal for a Cooperative Space Strategy with China”, 12/06/20**09**)
<span class="s3">Prevent Crisis Escalation</span><span class="s2">. Communication</span><span class="s7">… </span><span class="s2">**potential crisis escalation.** </span>

**The aff’s the best option to prevent continued Chinese ASAT technologies**
Aaron R.<span class="s1"> **Ressler** -- </span>Major, USAF (“Advancing Sino-U.S. Space Cooperation”, Air Command And Staff College Air University Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, April<span class="s1">, **09**, </span>http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA539619)
After reviewing Chinese counterspace… <span class="s7">pursuit of such activities?</span>

**ASAT miscalc risks nuclear war**
Geoffrey<span class="s1"> **Forden** </span>-- an M.I.T. research associate and a former UN weapons inspector and strategic weapons analyst Congressional Budget Office, (1/10<span class="s1">/**08,** “</span>How China Loses the Coming Space War”, http://blog.wired.com/defense/2008/01/inside-the-chin.html#more<span class="s1">)</span>
The United States has five satellites… <span class="s7">**war** without a clear military goal</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**US must act now to solve Chinese space mil**
Baohui <span class="s1">**Zhang**</span> – associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong (March/April, 20<span class="s1">**11**</span>, "The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship", JSTOR, RG)
<span class="s2">Despite the pessimism… **control in outer space.**</span>

**The plan results in transparency – this solves space mil and space leadership**
Dr. Joan<span class="s1"> **Johnson-Freese** -- </span>serves as Chair, Department of National Security Studies, at the U.S. Naval War College. Previously, she was on the faculty at the Asia Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu, Hawaii; at the Air War College in Montgomery, Alabama; and the Director of the Center for Space Policy & Law at the University of Central Florida. Dr. Johnson-Freese has testified before the U.S. Congress on several occasions regarding Chinese space activities and space security issues generally. She is on the editorial board of China Security and a member of the International Academy of Astronautics. Dr. Johnson-Freese’s most recent book is entitled ‘Space as a Strategic Asset’, released in March 2007 by Columbia University Press, (November 9,<span class="s1"> 20**05**, </span>“Maintaining US leadership in human spaceflight" Science Direct)
China is already working… <span class="s7">exploration perspective.</span>

**That ensures coalition building and deters new threats – the alternative is global war**
**Zhang and Shi 11** (Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi is from Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” 1/21/11, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)
This does not necessarily mean… <span class="s6">unrivalled US primacy.</span>


===Credibility Adv.=== 

**Contention 2 is Credibility:**

**Obama’s presidency is failing – a new policy directive is key to restore his credibility**
Walter Russell <span class="s1">**Mead**</span> -- James Clark Chase Professor of Foreign Affairs and Humanities at Bard College and Editor-at-Large of The American Interest, (Business Insider, <span class="s1">**6/20**</span>/11, “Here's How Obama Can Save His Presidency” [[http://www.businessinsider.com/heres-how-obama-can-save-his-presidency-2011-6]])
<span class="s2">Can the Obama Presidency</span><span class="s3"> still </span><span class="s2">be saved… </span><span class="s3">the economy going again?</span>

**Lack of Credibility leads to weakness and belligerence**
John R. <span class="s1">**Bolton**</span> -- Senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, Former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations (The Los Angeles Times, “The danger of Obama's dithering,”, October 18, 20<span class="s1">**09**</span>, pg. http://articles.latimes.com/2009/oct/18/opinion/oe-bolton18)
<span class="s4">**Weakness** in American… </span>have a long way to fall.

**Multiple scenarios for global war**
<span class="s1">Dr. </span>Victor Davis<span class="s1"> **Hanson** – Senior Fellow in Residence in Classics and Military History at Hoover Institution, Stanford University, (</span>Resistnet.com, December 7, <span class="s1">**2009**</span>, <span class="s1">“</span>Change, Weakness, Disaster, Obama: Answers from Victor Davis Hanson,” Interview with the [[http://www.resistnet.com/group/oregon|Oregon Patriots]], pg. [[http://www.resistne|http://www.resistnet.com/group/oregon/forum/topics/change-weakness-disaster-obama/showLastReply]])
BC: Are we currently sending… whom it will bite or when.

**Independently, it solves hard power and global nuclear conflict — Obama’s ability to pursue his foreign policy enables** <span class="s2">**coordinated**</span> **conflict resolution and maintains US leadership**
<span class="s1">**Zakaria, 8**</span> (Fareed, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/08, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249)
<span class="s2">The "Global Trends" report identifies… He should seize it.</span>

**The aff is** <span class="s2">**the**</span> **policy initiative that would demonstrate White House leadership – Holden can prevent negative effects**
Amy <span class="s1">**Svitak**</span> -- writer for Space News International, (Space News, <span class="s1">**5/4**</span>/11, “China Viewed as Potential U.S. Partner in Future Mars Exploration”, [[http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html]], Caplan)
<span class="s3">U.S. President Barack </span><span class="s2">Obama…in those exchanges.</span>

**NASA cred is declining now and only the aff can solve**
Dr. Joan <span class="s1">**Johnson-Freese**</span> -- serves as Chair, Department of National Security Studies, at the U.S. Naval War College. Previously, she was on the faculty at the Asia Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu, Hawaii; at the Air War College in Montgomery, Alabama; and the Director of the Center for Space Policy & Law at the University of Central Florida. Dr. Johnson-Freese has testified before the U.S. Congress on several occasions regarding Chinese space activities and space security issues generally. She is on the editorial board of China Security and a member of the International Academy of Astronautics. Dr. Johnson-Freese’s most recent book is entitled ‘Space as a Strategic Asset’, released in March 2007 by Columbia University Press, (<span class="s1">**6/10**</span>/11, China-U.S. Focus, “US-China Space Cooperation: Congress’ Pointless Lockdown”, <span class="s5">[[http://www.chinausfocus.com/peace-security/us-china-space-cooperation-congress%27-pointless-lockdown/|http://www.chinausfocus.com/peace-security/us-china-space-cooperation-congress’-pointless-lockdown/]]</span>)
<span class="s2">Rarely do US attempts… isolation gestures</span><span class="s6">.</span>

**The aff is the best option to revitalize NASA and garner the public support to reinvigorate Obama**
Loren<span class="s1"> **Thompson** </span>-- Chief Financial Officer – Lexington Institute, (Lexington Institute, April 20<span class="s1">**11**</span>, “Human Spaceflight”, [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/library/resources/documents/Defense/HumanSpaceflight-Mars.pdf]], Caplan)
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s…<span class="s4">be dead by the end of the current decade.</span>

**And NASA credibility independently soft power and war**
Dr. John M. <span class="s1">**Logsdon** </span>- Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University, Research professor of Political Science and International Affairs at George Washington University (GWU, 20<span class="s1">**09**</span>, “Human Space Flight and National Power,” High Frontier, March 2007, Volume 3 Number 2, pg. [[http://www.gwu.edu/%7Espi/assets/docs/DrLogsdon_HF_Article.pdf//edlee|http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/DrLogsdon_HF_Article.pdf]])
This question has been eloquently… <span class="s7">as a great country</span>. Pg. 13

**Extinction**
**Nye, 96** (Joseph, Washington Quarterly, Winter, Lexis)
While generally less threatening… alliances, and global institutions.


===Mars Adv.=== 

**Contention 3 is Mars:**

**China is uniquely key in Mars cooperation – no other actor has the tech or attitude**
Jonathan <span class="s1">**Adams**</span> – senior staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor, former corresponding director for Newscom, (The Christian Science Monitor, <span class="s1">**10/28**</span>/11, “China is on path to 'militarization of space”, http://www.csmonitor.com/layout/set/print/content/view/print/332521)
Taipei, Taiwan China looks… sustain its lead in space."

**A mission to Mars would establish a colony that would ensure long-term species survival**
<span class="s1">**Federal News Service**</span> – hierarchal U.S. federal service for Washington transcripts, (<span class="s1">**3/10**</span>/11, U.S. Federal News Service “Time Is Now For Human Mission To Mars Say Book Contributors”, parts taken from a University of Arizona press release, Lexis Nexis)
More than 1,000 queue up… perhaps a century from now.

**Colonization of Mars is key to preserve human life – it mitigates asteroid and comet collisions, nuclear and biological war, natural disasters, warming, and ecological collapse – the aff. outweighs and solves even in a worst case scenario**
Nicholas K. <span class="s1">**Geranios**</span> – staff writer at the associated press (MSNBC, November 15, 20<span class="s1">**10**</span>, “Scientists propose one-way trips to Mars”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/40194872/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/scientists-propose-one-way-trips-mars/)
For anyone who’s ever felt… else you’d like to send to Mars?



===Plan Text=== 

**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of Mars, including an offer to the** <span class="s2">**People’s**</span> **Republic of China of participation in a cooperative mission that explores Mars.**


===Solvency=== 


**The last contention is Solvency:**

**China says yes**
Andy <span class="s1">**Pasztor**</span>, Andy Pasztor, senior special writer at the Los Angeles bureau of The Wall Street Journal, has more than 25 years experience covering local, national and international politics and business, (The Wall Street Journal, April 15, 20<span class="s1">**10**</span>, U.S. News: “China Sets Ambitious Space Goals”, Lexis)
<span class="s2">China's manned space…discussions of international cooperation.</span>

**Even if they say no it’s irrelevant—the sheer offer solves leadership, space mil, and an arms race**
<span class="s4">**Johnson-Freese 04**</span> (Joan, Chair of the National Security Decision Making Department at the United States Naval War College., Yale Center for the Study of Globalization, “Chinese Chess in Space”, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/chinese-chess-space/)
The third alternative focuses…<span class="s3"> **move" for the US.**</span>

**Mars mission specifically is key to strengthen space coop**
James Clay **Moltz** – Associate Director and Research Professor at CNS, Monterey Inst of Int'l Studies, directs Newly Independent States Nonprolif Program, (12/9/**10**, "China, the United States, and Prospects for Asian Space Cooperation," Ebsco, RG)
<span class="s2">Another forward-looking… mutual knowledge and trust.</span>



=Negative= 

===Pre-Golden Desert=== 

For more information about Jacob on the neg. see his other wiki: [[2011-2012 - Glenbrook North (IL) - Jacob Kahn & Sahar Merchant|Jacob Kahn and Sahar Merchant]]


===Golden Desert=== 

GBN spent their last 30 hours before the tournament [stuck] at the Houston Intercontinental Airport and did not attend rounds 1-3.

Round 4 (SBMD - East):
1NC:
- On the ground CP, ozone DA, debris DA, scared cow DA, T must be human, security kritik
2NR:
- On the ground CP, ozone DA, debris DA, sacred cow DA

Round 5 (Ironically nuke the moon - Kent Denver):
1NC:
- Deterrence Kritik, signing statements, nuke the ocean CP, T must be human, framework
2NR:
- Deterrence kritik, framework


===JV State (Illinois - ICTA)=== 

Round 2 (Solar Sails - GBS CV):
1NC:
- NSP CP, Security K, T must be human, sacred cow DA
2NR:
- NSP CP

Round 3 (SPS - Niles West LP):
1NC:
- Ground/ITAR CP, SSO DA, Debris/Ozone DA, sacred cow DA, T must be human
2NR:
- Ground/ITAR CP, SSO DA

===JV Nationals/GMNDC (Iowa - ICW)=== 

Round 1 (Iowa City West YY - ISS):
1NC:
-Security kritik, multi-plank advantage CP, insurance DA, debris DA, ozone DA
2NR:
-Multi-plank advantage CP, insurance DA, case


Round 4 (Barsow DW - Asteroids):
1NC:
-Microwaves DA, T must be human, T beyond, sacred cow DA, microwaves DA, debris DA, multi-plank advantage CP
2NR:
-Microwaves DA, sacred cow DA, multi-plank advantage CP

Round 6 (Barstow NB - Property Rights):
1NC:
-Debris DA, ozone DA, multi-plank advantage CP, T beyond, T must be human
2NR:
-Ozone DA, case

Semis (Niles West PL - SPS):
1NC:
-Multi-plank advantage CP, ozone DA, debris DA, oil DA, security kritik, T must be human
2NR:
-Security kritik



Finals (GBN CK - Debris):
Lumber futures DA





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]