[[toc]]
=Contact Info:= 

yasmin.faruki@gmail.com (2A)
jinashin0410@gmail.com (2N)

=Affirmative= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Racial Contract is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Mills</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Charles-; The Racial Contract3</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nationally, within these racial polities, ...intracontinental racial exploitation.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">BARDNT</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">1991</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to White America; p.31-33</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism can be expressed... see this power at work.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">CFR 9/25/11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special cAorrespondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, [[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-apthe_americanallergyto_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked ... protect the habitat that sustains us."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Mooney ’11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” [[http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They’re the conservative... blogs serve to fan the flames.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Climate denial has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding crucial earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Patrick </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Gleick</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> 8/31/</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2011</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]] [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">By pretending that the science... debate by trying to discredit the science.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The effects of global warming strike at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an obligation to these populations</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Minority Rights Groups International April 2008</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate change is just beginning t...responsibility for this than any other nation.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The consequences of this discrimination is equivalent to an ongoing genocide – climate deniers risk the lives of hundreds of millions</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clive </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Hamilton</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> November, 16th </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Hamilton: Denying the coming global holocaust [[http://www.crikey.com.au/2009/11/16/hamilton-denying-the-coming-climate-holocaust/]] [Professor of Public Ethics at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (CAPPE)[1] and the Vice-Chancellor's Chair in Public Ethics at Charles Sturt University.[2] He is the Founder and former Executive Director of the The Australia Institute. Overseas Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholar and completed his Doctorate at the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex. Senior Visiting Fellow of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of Yale University. Professor at Oxford.]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate sceptics resent ...f we do nothing they will die.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">These systematic harms of structural violence must come before linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Abu-Jamal 98</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We live, equally immersed, a..., throughout the world. [Gilligan, p. 196]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">MEMMI</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The struggle against ...ut the stakes are irresistible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">As a stance against instutitional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Michael and I advocate the following: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its earth observation capabilities. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The current struggle against global warming represents the invisibility of race at its finest – the environmental movement has exemplified modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tim </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Wise</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> April 13th </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2011</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Tim Wise and White Privilege [[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]] [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But as troubling as ... and their concerns, but is to weaken the fight for survival.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">MANDELL</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2k8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[*297] Fear of eroding ... capitalist ruling class." n52</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Dialogue and communication matters – connecting the risks of climate change to issues of social justice is critical to connect to new constituencies </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 14-16 Mkoo)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The relationship between the .. message delivery and toward dialogue and engagement.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">This shifts the conditions of the debate – current focus in relation to climate change has only dealt with its </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 124-127 Mkoo)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The emerging climate-justice ...human rights, and social justice.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">A racialized discussion of key, traditional technical strategies of risk calculus are embedded within justifications of white supremacy and fail to mobilize action</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 130 Mkoo)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Risk communication research ...We summarize the lessons learned from both</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">It’s not a question of solvency, but one of exposition – we must constantly discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Gore, ’11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] [[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gore: Yeah if Michael... get that out there, absolutely.</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]