<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>




=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contact</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**[[mailto:tuckerboyce@gmail.com|tuckerboyce@gmail.com]] for cites**</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LSP [Lunar Swag Power]</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan Text</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should develop a Lunar Solar Power system on the Earth's Moon.</span>**</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Existential Risk</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Extinction is inevitable from expanding sun, asteroids, warming, or disease if we don’t get off the rock</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Austen, 11** [Ben Austen, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Earth won’t always be fit for occupation</span>. We know that …<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> but there will be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">Jason G. **Matheny**, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, 200**7** (“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]], Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As for astronomical risks, <span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">to escape our sun's death</span>, humanity<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…fundamentally about </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the survival of the species</span>**."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">LSP allows for colonization of moon and outer space</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Bekey et al 2000**, Criswell, Friedman, Greenwood, Miller -- Professors of Aeronautics and Space Development @ USC, Univ. Houston, Univ. Oklahoma (<[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2000-FinalReport-AutonomousConstructionAndManufacturing.pdf]]>, " AUTONOMOUS CONSTRUCTION AND MANUFACTURING FOR SPACE ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM", NASA and NSF Report)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Energy is fundamental to nearly everything that humans would like …</span> to fabricate solar cells on location.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Human colonization is feasible – but a robotic outpost is needed.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Schrunk et al. 7** – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, pp. 80-81, p. SpringerLink)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As shown in the previous chapters, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">t</span>he Moon has the energy…in the south polar region is an excellent location for the first lunar base.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">LSP is critical for the future colonization of the moon and future planets -- self-sustaining energy source</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Ignatiev et al 2001** -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < [[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705]]>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The long term exploration and colonization of the solar system … fabrication of more solar cells.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">Nick **Bostrom**, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 200**9** Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]], Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-right region of figure 2. </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">For any fixed probability,</span>existential risks are<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span>more serious than other …<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> certainly larger than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.[13]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Catastrophic impacts pale in comparison to existential ones — their impacts are recoverable setbacks while ours end the game.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">Nick **Bostrom**, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 200**9** (“The Future of Humanity,” Geopolitics, History and International Relations, Volume 9, Issue 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library, Reprinted Online at [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/papers/future.pdf]], Accessed 07-06-2011, p. 11)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Extinction risks constitute an especially severe subset of what could … massacre for man, a small misstep for mankind.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Technology exists to build a robotic outpost on the Moon – technology to transport humans will be developed in the process</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Schrunk et al. 7** – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, pp. 80-81, p. SpringerLink)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4.10 LAUNCH VEHICLE CAPABILITY While no system is currently …permanent human habitation.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Space Race</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There’s a race to the Moon now:</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">First, Growing number of Japanese organizations are looking towards LSP projects – Japanese earthquake and energy strategy</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">EcoBusiness 7/12/11</span>**-- Asia Business Magazine(“ Is ‘Luna Ring’ the energy solution or looney pipe dream?” <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.eco-business.com/news/is-luna-ring-the-energy-solution-or-looney-pipe-dream/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">When Tetsuji Yoshida first unveiled a revolutionary plan …continue to do the research, we think there’s a huge chance this could become reality.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Second, Even the perception of U.S. losing the moon undermines international leadership</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">**Vorenberg 08 -** Sue Vorenberg,Reported on new science and technology developments across New Mexico. Covered health issues and breaking news on a variety of topics, “Scientists: U.S. power at stake in space race,” Feb 12, 2008,</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.santafenewmexican.com/Local%20News/Space-Technology-and-Applications-International-Forum-Scientist]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The underlying political message of space exploration …remember that exploration almost always leads to greater wealth."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan is key:</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">A. Energy provided by LSP system is the lynchpin for moon control – first one to build controls future colonization, exploration, science stations, and inter-solar travel</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Ignatiev et al 2001** -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < [[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705]]>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Energy is fundamental to<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> nearly everything that humans…</span> electrical energy needed for the development <span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">of space.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**B.** **Japanese LSP would control key moon real estate, moon energy infrastructure, and ensure Japanese lunar resource exploitation**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Shimizu Corp June 2011** (“Lunar Solar Power Generation: The Energy Paradigm Shift Opens the Door to a Sustainable Society” <[[http://www.shimz.co.jp/english/theme/dream/lunaring.html]]>, Shimizu is lead Japanese organization aiming to build LSP on moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A shift from economical use of limited resources to the…solar cells from lunar resources and installing them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">C. The Moon, specifically the South Pole, is the lynchpin of the system and solar system development overall. The pole is key to minerals, others are going for the Moon now.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Whitehouse** 8-9 [Dr. David Whitehouse “scientist, writer and broadcaster. He has a doctorate in Astrophysics from Jodrell Bank. Was BBC Science correspondent 1988 - 2006. He has won numerous awards as well as European Internet Journalist of the Year.”; “Returning the Moon”; 8/9/2011; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/dr-david-whitehouse/return-to-the-moon_b_953061.html]]; ahs]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Just as the United States is turning away from the…strategic analysis, the Moon base sits at the heart of a sensible solar system exploration plan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">We have the tech now for LSP.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Criswell 3** [Testimony of Dr. David R. Criswell (prof at the University of Houston and expert on LSP) at Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space Hearings: "Lunar Exploration" Thursday, November 6, 2003, 2:30 PM �SR-253; [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=10926]]; Boyce]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Lunar Solar Power (LSP) System does not require…oversee the lunar machinery and maintain the LSP System.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">We isolate 3 impact scenarios:</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A.) Independently, Transition from US dominance causes conflict– China.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Friedburg 2011** (July/August, Aaron L., professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics, The National Interest, lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">THE UNITED States and the ... often been marked by war</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">B.) Hegemony:</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Lunar dominance i</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px; text-decoration: none;">s critical</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;"> to overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">**Spudis 10** – Paul D. Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, 2010, “The New Space Race,” online:</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In one of his early speeches defending the Apollo program, President John F. Kennedy…we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Heg solves global power wars and specific conflicts</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">Kagan 07 Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10|http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">)]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, </span>Americans have <span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">… under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">C.) Lunar Resources</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Lunar Exploration and Settlements are key to He3 mining and US Space Leadership</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Jeffrey 5/26** (Terrence P Jeffrey, Editor in Chief of CNS News, “Former Moon Astronaut and Senator: U.S. Should Settle Moon and Mars”[[http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/former-moon-astronaut-and-senator-us-sho]], 5/26/2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">He now believes <span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">America’s political leadership, and </span>…is a literally ideal fuel for nuclear fusion reactors.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Controlling Moon resources key to avoid resource wars.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-decoration: none;">**Lasker 10** (John Lasker, Freelance Journalist-Major contributor for magazines (eg. Wired & Christian Science Monitor), "Technoir",[[http://www.godlikeproductions.com/forum1/message1363174/pg1]], 4/3/2010)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Back <span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">in 1998, representatives</span> from Halliburton and Shell…a resource war that ends the human race</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Statistical evidence shows power transitions explain 80% of war occurrence**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Efird, Kugler, and Genna ’03** member of the Sentia Group --- and ---</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Professor of IR at Claremont Graduate U – and --- Prof of political science at Winona State University (Brian, Jacek, and Gaspare, FROM WAR TO INTEGRATION: GENERALIZING POWERTRANSITION THEORY, International Interactions, 29:293–313, 2003</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Since our interest is in … reordering of the status quo (Kugler and Zagare, 1990).</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Email me for block stuff and cites not on here.... tuckerboyce@gmail.com**</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T Its vs. Space Tourism</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T Human</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T Beyond vs. SUSTAIN</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A. Beyond means outside the sphere of**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">OED ’89 (Oxford English Dictionary 1989 Second Edition <<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://oed.com/view/Entry/18511?redirectedFrom=beyond#eid|http://oed.com/view/Entry/18511?redirectedFrom=beyond#eid]]</span>>L.F.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> **a.** </span><span class="DebateUnderline">Outside the limit or sphere of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, past; out of the grasp or reach of.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The mesosphere is 250-650 miles above the surface of the Earth**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dictionary.com ’11 (Random House, Inc., 2011, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/mesosphere)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">–noun 1. (in the classification of the earth's atmosphere by chemical properties) the region between the ionosphere and the exosphere, extending from about 250–650 miles (400–1050 km) above the surface of the earth. </span>
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">K</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Intersectionality K (Female Space)</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A. The aff’s use of Over-Inclusion does not take into account other identities. The idea that it is a 'womyn’s problem’ is a simplistic notion that does not lead to substantial change and forces the intervention to fail**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Crenshaw 2003** Kimberle Crenshaw. (Professor of Law and UCLA) “The intersectionality of Race and Gener discrimination” November 2003[[http://www.isiswomen.org/womenet/lists/apgr-list/archive/doc00009.doc]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The term "over-inclusion” is meant to capture … understanding upon which the intervention is grounded. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B. Without viewing all the different types of agency and realizing the traffic between them will increase the present oppression and make fighting future oppression impossible-turning case**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**C.W.G.L. 2006** (Center for Women’s Global Leadership)“A definition of intersectional discrimination”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">August 29, 2006. [[http://www.cwgl.rutgers.edu/index.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">An intersectional approach to analyzing … create various forms of disempowerment. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Didn't read an alt this round</span>**</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Manifest Destiny K 1 Off the K Version</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Manifest Destiny K Short Version</span>==== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Asteroids K (read on case flow)</span>==== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Amendment Terrorism CP (vs. SUSTAIN Al-Qaeda Nukes Adv)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Text: The United States federal government should provide $5 billion to expand Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. The United States federal government should express its view that the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism be broadened to encompass the development and implementation of effective international nuclear security and accounting standards for both civilian and military nuclear materials and facilities as well as for nuclear weapons.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**$5 billion to Nunn-Lugar checks nuke terror**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perry et al 09(“</span>Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States” http://media.usip.org/reports/strat_posture_report.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The surest way to prevent nuclear terrorism AND UNSCR 1540 around the world.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bolden Resignation CP (Females)</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CP Text: <span class="bold">Charles F. Bolden, Jr. should resign as administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.</span></span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NASA’s second in command is a female – Lori Garver</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**NASA 04/2010** [“Garver Bio” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/about/highlights/garver_bio.html]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nominated by President Barack Obama AND </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the NASA Advisory Council.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ESA/CSA Funding CP (James Webb)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CP Text: The European Space Agency and Canadian Space Agency should fully fund the James Webb Telescope.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CP sets European focus.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brobinsky and Del Monte 2010</span> (N and L, both with the ESA, The Space Situational Awareness Program of the European Space Agency, Cosmic Research, 2010, Vol. 48, No. 5 pp. 392–398, http://www.springerlink.com/content/a592j95k5l113715/fulltext.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">CHARACTERISTICS OF THE EUROPEAN SSA SYSTEM AND </span>SWE); and 3) Near-Earth Objects (NEO).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**ESA investing now.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ESA. 8/29/11</span>. [[http://www.esa.int/esaSC/120370_index_0_m.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">The James Webb Space Telescope was formerly known AND have collaborated on JWST since 1997.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LSP CP</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Extinction Bunker CP (read vs. Webb exoplanets adv)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The United States federal government should construct and maintain self-sufficient, remote, permanently occupied refuges meant to protect humanity from extinction events.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**CP solves the exoplanets advantage and colonization.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jason G. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Matheny</span>**, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>** (“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm, Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">more cost effective than building AND small setback compared to extinction</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LSP Fossil Fuel (for Al-Qaeda Impact)</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aerospace Visas CP (Economy)</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wolf Clause CP (vs. China Cooperation)</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sea-Basing CP (Naval Power Adv CP)</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ORS Launch Pic</span>==== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">PTC Politics DA</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Elections DA</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Space Tourism Warming DA</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">GEO DA</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cooperation DA</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Cooperation now.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kenyon 11</span> [Henry Kenyon, “DOD wants space assets more secure, resilient to attack,” Defense Systems, Mar 17, 2011, pg. [[http://www.defensesystems.com/Articles/2011/03/17/Satellite-2011-National-Space-Policy.aspx]]//edlee]//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">DOD is following strategic approaches AND disposal of satellites and space debris</span>

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**P**</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**lan removes the need to cooperation**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fukushima 11</span> - National Institute for Defense Studies, Ministry of Defense [Yasuhito Fukushima, “An Asian perspective on the new US space policy: The emphasis on international cooperation and its relevance to Asia,” Space Policy 27 (2011</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">) 3-6</span>//edlee]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Leveraging the increasing opportunities to work AND market access for US industry.” Pg. 3 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Lack of coop risks multiple earth and space wars.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huntley et al 10</span> – US Naval Postgraduate School [Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Pages 25-38</span>edlee]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">.3. Scenario A: “Back to the Future AND the kinds of weapons not to be used.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Spending DA</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Debt ceiling barely staved off disaster**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Espo 8/1</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> David </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">Espo</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">August 1, </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Associated Press “House OKs debt; Giffords brings down the House” [[http://www.journalgazette.net/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20110801/NEWS03/110809968/1066/NEWS03]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Emergency legislation to scrape AND session but only slightly.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Space development is costly – launch costs are ten thousand dollars per pound**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabriele 07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Paul </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">Gabriele</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jr, Captain, USAF, 3/</span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “ACTIVE CONTROL OF A THIN DEFORMABLE IN-PLANE ACTUATED MIRROR,” Thesis, Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Graduate School of Engineering and Management, Air Force Institute of Technology, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=lresearch&objectid=3acbac26-86d8-4b4a-8765-b0fdc0fba152</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Traditional large glass mirrors AND in space costly [38].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Fiscal Discipline key to keeping Moody’s Rating**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bloomberg 8/2</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bloomberg, "US Credit Rating Affirmed as Moody's Fitch warn of Downgrade on Defecit," 8/2/2011 pg online @ www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-aaa-rating-faces-moody-s-downgrade-on-debt-economic-slowdown-concern.html//arjun)// </span></span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings AND, followed by a decline.</span>//

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="Author-Date">S&P Downgrade means brink is now – Another Downgrade would trigger the impact</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NY Times 8/5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The New York Times, Breaking News Alert, "US Long-Term Debt Downgraded by Standard & Poor's," 8-5-11</span></span>arjun)
<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Standard & Poor’s removedAND **a reduction by at least two agencies.**</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Economic Decline Results from Downgrade**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Post 4/19</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington Post</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, News Source, </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">4/19</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (April 19th 2011, “U.S. credit rating downgrade: the Armageddon scenario,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/political-economy/post/us-ratings-downgrade-the-armageddon-scenario/2011/04/19/AFnE0n5D_blog.html]])</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A credit rating downgrade ANDfiscal tightening is likely to occur.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Credible Fiscal Framework and fiscal responsibility key to protect property, the economy.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 2k9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Karen, doctorate degree in economics in 2008 from Temple, policy analyst in macroeconomics at The Heritage Foundation's Center for Data Analysis, “The Economic Role of Government: Focus on Stability, Not Spending,” pg online @ [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Economy/bg2316.cfm]] //ghs-ef)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">In economies that compete globally AND </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">their budgets.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Nuclear War and extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bearden 2K,</span> Fellow of the Alpha Foundation’s Institute for Advanced Study & Director of the Association of Distinguished American Scientists, 6-12-2K (T.E., “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly,” ADAS Position Paper: Solution to the Energy Crisis, www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">History bears out that AND at least for many decades.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[media type="custom" key="11446890"]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>