<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Westminster (GA) - Dillon Hall & Colin Basco|Westminster BH Home Page]]</span>
<span style="color: black;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Westminster (GA) - Dillon Hall & Colin Basco - Negative|Westminster BH Negative Page]]</span>

[[toc]]
=<span style="color: black;">Topicality</span>= 

==T-Its== 
===1NC=== 
**A. ‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, </span>__its__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span>__to show__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possession or </span>__ownership.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>

**NASA support of commercial space development is distinct from ‘its own’ space development programs**
**Berger, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Houston Chronicle's space, weather and science reporter. (“NASA still being torn between commercial space and its own rockets,” Houston Chronicle Blog, 2/14, [[http://blog.chron.com/sciguy/2011/02/nasa-still-being-torn-between-commercial-space-and-its-own-rockets/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The president’s budget for NASA released today (see</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/factsheet_department_nasa/|fact sheet]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) is similar to the</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.aip.org/fyi/2010/082.html|Senate compromise]]</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">last year, but contains some key differences.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Notably the issues remain how much to spend on a heavy lift rocket and launch vehicle, and how much to invest in private-sector initiatives, such as</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://blogs.chron.com/sciguy/archives/2011/01/spacex_sends_a_message_to_budgetcutting_lawmakers_1.html|SpaceX]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which two months ago became the first commercial entity to launch a spacecraft into orbit and subsequently recover it upon its return to Earth.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As has been the case … </span>__a launch rocket and crew vehicle__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the President’s proposed budget, NASA would spend $850 million on commercial crew services, but just $2.8 billion on a new NASA rocket and crew vehicle.</span>


==T-Increase== 

===1NC=== 

**A. Interpretation – Increase requires making an already existing thing greater**
**Buckley et al, 06 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">attorney (Jeremiah, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

First, the court said that … the words around it”) (citation omitted).

==T-Exploration== 

===**1NC**=== 

**Exploration means to expand human presence to space**
**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale Many believe that the only ....</span> will make contributions that will outweigh the costs and risks involved to the “primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”

==T-Substantial== 
===**1NC**=== 
**Substantially should be defined by context**
**Devinsky 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In reversing a summary judgment of … , upon reading the patent documents."</span>

<span class="Underline">**A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Alexander 08** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, President Bush … guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.</span>






==T-Commercial== 

===**1NC**=== 
**A. Interpretation - Exploration is space science and development is the creation of commercial market activities**
**Hsu and Cox, 9 -** *Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]])

Particularly, NASA needs reforms on … in solely by taxpayer contributions.