[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
all humans are animals, not all animals are humans. this means the debate extends beyond non homo sapiens to encompass all of the animalia kingdom.
Klappenbach 2k9 <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Lauren. </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">BS degrees in biology and chemistry from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign as well as an MS degree in Environmental Science with a concentration in Ecology from Indiana University, Bloomington. Animals – Metazoa pg 1</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://animals.about.com/od/identifyinganimals/p/animals.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="color: #333333;">[animals (metazoa) are...rough estimate.]</span>


<span style="color: #333333;">justice: moral rightness</span>
<span style="color: #333333;">ac adopts ethical orientation towards upholding human dignity, a necessary component of human rights.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fasching 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Darrell J. Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida. __The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima : Apocalypse or Utopia?__ State University of New York Press. 1993. Pp 191-192]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[and Third World...with pay.]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">No value.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Standard: Embracing a contestable ethic of welcoming the stranger. Means we adopt a view open to differing interpretations to avoid a totalizing outlook. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Unjust means become unjust ends. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fasching 2</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Darrell, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima. pg 60)</span>
[Utopians seem to...is passing away.]

I. Excluding animals from conceptions of justice allows the sacred order to prevail in generating a morality that promotes hostility and violence. Unity is accomplished through hospitality to the stranger.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Fasching 3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, Dell, Director of Religious Studies in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, //Comparative Religious Ethics: A Narrative Approach,// Pp. 10) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">[human religiousness....my stories.]</span>

human rights include animal rights which need shift from the single traditional narrative. Human dignity cannot be confided to a singular culture. If not, cultural and religious imperialism threaten the holy community.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fasching 4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Darrell J. Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida. __The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima : Apocalypse or Utopia?__ State University of New York Press. 1993. Pp 192-193]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Sixth, therefore,...of the other.]</span></span>

conceptions of rights allows society to move from protecting HD to liberating populations. allows for a new world order based on an ethic of welcoming the stranger.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fasching 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Darrell J. Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida. __The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima : Apocalypse or Utopia?__ State University of New York Press. 1993. Pp 195-197]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[As I have...new society.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">II. If we don't adopt this pluralism, we promote genocide. Genocide is the product of societies that view the other as something to be exterminated. Technically efficient squo promotes too. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fasching 6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Darrell J. Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida. __The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima : Apocalypse or Utopia?__ State University of New York Press. 1993. Pp 28-29]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Our modern technology... self-destruction.]</span></span>


2:
all humans are classified as animals although not all animals are classified as human. 
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="apple-converted-space">**<span style="color: black;">Klappenbach explains in 2k9 that</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Lauren. </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">BS degrees in biology and chemistry from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign as well as an MS degree in Environmental Science with a concentration in Ecology from Indiana University, Bloomington. Animals – Metazoa pg 1</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://animals.about.com/od/identifyinganimals/p/animals.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">[Animals (Metazoa) are...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rough estimate.]</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">this means discussion of animal rights is encompassed in the treatment of humans and justice is defined as moral rightness [dictionary.com] which means we must adopt a methodology that maintains the most moral ends. </span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">standard: maximizing quality of life</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Joseph </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Raz</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, philosopher, THE MORALITY OF FREEDOM, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">86</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, p. 307</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[One way to ...than that life</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.]</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">Contention one. Humanist thinking allows violence to occur. </span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wadiwel 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> [Dinesh. “Animal by Any Other Name? Patterson and Agamben Discuss Animal (and Human) Life.” Borderlands E-Journal. animal by any other name vol 3 No 1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol3no1_2004/wadiwel_animal.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">] </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[There is a certain ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Animals and the Holocaust (2002).]</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And the man animal binary is created when we domesticate animals for human uses and separate them from our understanding of identity. </span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wadiwel 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> [Dinesh. “Animal by Any Other Name? Patterson and Agamben Discuss Animal (and Human) Life.” Borderlands E-Journal. animal by any other name vol 3 No 1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol3no1_2004/wadiwel_animal.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">] </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[The first two chapters ... in the West.]</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And as humans become animals violence is inflicted upon them. </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wadiwel 3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> [Dinesh. “Animal by Any Other Name? Patterson and Agamben Discuss Animal (and Human) Life.” Borderlands E-Journal. animal by any other name vol 3 No 1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol3no1_2004/wadiwel_animal.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">] </span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [In the second chapter,...</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">its gaze.]</span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">Part II. </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">truth of res means we have to allow animals rights in conceptions of justice. </span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Steven M. **Wise, Professor Animal Rights Law at the Harvard Law School, 2000**, “Rattling the Cage: Toward Legal Rights for Animals” Questia p. 13-14</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Aristotle forged ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> rights.]</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**truth of res means we have to allow animals rights in conceptions of justice (more).**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gary **Francione, Professor of Law, Rutgers University, 1996,** Animal Rights: the changing debate, ed. Robert Garner, p. 52</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[Regan argues that ...</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">__animal welfare.]__</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>
==Negative== 
Negation theory.
No value.
Standard: Minimizing oppression
1. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Joseph </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Raz</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, philosopher, THE MORALITY OF FREEDOM, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">86</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, p. 307</span>
[One way to test the...than that life.]

Questioning the language of the aff is good in a move beyond recognition.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oliver 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Kelly. Philosopher and Women’s studies professor. Witnessing: Beyond Recognition. Pgs 187]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[The notion of recognition ...recognition of difference. ]</span>

I. A sustainable ethics founded upon responsibility that goes beyond rights and recognition is necessary to truly achieve justice.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oliver 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Kelly. Philosopher and Women’s studies professor. What’s Wrong With Animal Rights. Pg 47]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">[Given that we...figured as animals.]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">animal rights continue exclusion and violence</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oliver 3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Kelly. Philosopher and Women’s studies professor. What’s Wrong With Animal Rights. Pg 37]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Derrida worried that...rights are based.]</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the space between the other and ourselves leads to violence via aff methodology</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oliver 4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Kelly. Philosopher and women’s study professor. The Look of Love. Pgs 4-5]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[The presupposition...makes recognition possible.]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">II. Moving beyond recognition solves</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A reevaluation of the man animal binary opens up critical thinking, ROB is standing in solidarity with the indict of recognition</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Oliver 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Kelly. Philosopher and Women’s studies professor. What’s Wrong With Animal Rights. Pgs 150-151]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[The implication...sex(es) to come.] </span></span>



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]