[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

===Feminism AC=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Because the oppression of animals is a vehicle for which we symbolically and literally oppress women, I affirm: Justice requires the recognition of animal rights</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Feminist Andrea Dworkin writes in her famous speech I Want a 24 Hour Truce Without Rape (1983)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“And also: that … of women's oppression. “</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">David Tacey explains why we must reject destructive masculinity </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Finding the Truth in Men's Experience: Masculinity, Change and Healing</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Written by David Tacey professor of Jungian and Psychoanalytic Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">at La Trobe University, Melbourne,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wednesday, 31 January 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> “//Traditional masculinity appears … in some way.”// </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The STANDARD is rejecting a mindset of destructive masculinity through rejecting manifestations of destructive masculinity. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Symbolically, Women are Subjugated to Violence through the Production, Consumption and Depersoning of meat. This symbolic subjugation reinforces the mentality that perpetuates Actual Violence Against Women. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Carol J. Adams 1writes of meat as a metaphor for the devouring of women in the The Sexual Politics of Meat: //A Feminist-Vegetarian Critical Theory// *</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Though we are… pieces of meat.”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Adams 2 continues by illustrating the powerful symbolic connection between the butchery of animals and rape: *</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“When I use …rape of animals.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Animals have to be depersonalized for meat to exist. Adams</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The rough butchering… to something else.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And Relief is Needed Because Males Actually use the symbolism of Meat and their Right to it, as a Way to JUSTIFY Violence against Women</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Adams 4:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Male belligerence is…of fresh meat.”42”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The destructive masculinity advanced in the eating of meat is also used to perpetuate the justification of individual killing, racism, and war:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Adams 5</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“If feminist vegetarians …no longer mourned. “</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We must recognize that destructive masculinity keeps all forms of violence alive. Our confrontation of the patriarchal conceptions key to solving our problem with our society’s violent, destructive impulses. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warren and Cady 1996 (Karen and Duane, Assistant Professors Macalester University and Hamline University, Bringing Peace Home: Feminism, Violence, and Nature, p. 12-13, LV)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Operationalized, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the evidence …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and perpetuate them. “</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION 4: THE ONLY ALTERNATIVE IS VEGITARIANISM</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The power we have stowed upon meat must be removed from our society. Meat’s exclusion from our diet is the only way to uphold this mentality. Animals deserve the right to life. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Adams 6</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“But how, precisely, ….into our symbolism.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Additionally, Vegetarianism destabilizes patriarchal consumption </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Adams 7</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“The creation of …we all feed.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Role of the Ballot</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In this round, the role of this ballot is also symbolic, whether in the imaginary world of fiat or the micro-political world of this room and our lives. The ballot says that the judge agrees that we — together — must fight against the rape and beating of women by forcing radical changes in the way that we think. If there is even a slight possibility of a link between the way we kill and consume animals and the raping and battering of women, then we must recognize animal rights and affirm. The possibility of stopping one rape is far more important than eating a steak. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Andrea Dworkin </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“I want to …coerced by poverty.”</span></span>
==Negative== 


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Muslim NC</span>=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Boorstein States</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">By</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://projects.washingtonpost.com/staff/articles/michelle+boorstein/|Michelle Boorstein]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Washington Post Staff Writer Thursday, January 27, 2011, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Global Muslim population will continue to grow in next 20 years;</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/26/AR2011012607769.html]]</span>
<span style="color: black;">“The world's Muslim …Christianity and Islam.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Because we should never say that Muslims are unable to achieve justice, I Negate. </span>
Otherization degrades individuals based on origins. The late Edward said Argues;("Orientalism" 1st Vintage Books ed edition (October 12, 1979), Edward Said) 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“One aspect of …are depressingly small.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thus the value criterion for this round is decreasing the oppressive standards that prevent the achievement of justice. </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Traditional methods of slaughter stand firm in Islamic society. Riaz and Chaudry explain</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Since earning his doctorate in food science from the University of Maine in 1992, Mian Riaz has become a leader in food protein research through extensive presentations on the subject both nationally and abroad. His work includes presentations at the 10th World Congress of Food Science and Technology and a short course on soybeans as functional foods at the University of Hong Kong. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mian N. Riaz and Muhammad M. Chaudry; 2004; __Halal Food Production__; </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.halalrc.org/images/Research%20Material/Books/Halal%20Food%20-%20A%20compelete%20Book.pdf]]</span>
“The traditional method …used as non-halal. “
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">To Affirm the resolution is to declare that humans and animals are on the same equivalent level. This absoluteness is what creates the definite standard for justice that oppresses. Rights’ claims destroy political discussions as a method to solve conflict by ignoring the social costs that these claims have when people put themselves at the center of their moral universe. Glendon– 2</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Mary Ann Glendon (a Professor of Law at Harvard University) “</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Rights Talk: The Impoverishment of Political Discourse</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">” //The Social Contract.//  Published: Fall 1991 Accessed: August 27, 2011</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Our current American …**__and civic obligations. “__**</span></span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">In order to understand the impact of exclusion from justice, it is essential for us to experience and become exposed to these individuals’ society. We must analyze their standpoint. These perceptions of the otherized need to always be taken into account to move towards a solution. </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Volume 3, Number 1 (January 20</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">06</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)The Banality of the ImMEDIAte Spectacle: Globalization, Terrorism, Radical Cultural Denigration, and the Condition of Hollowity<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ubishops.ca/baudrillardstudies/vol3_1/akinbola.htm#_edn1|1]]</span>Akinbola E. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Akinwumi </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Graduate Student, Department of Geography, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria)]</span>
//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">“The Spirit of Terrorism</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ….. **nothing in return.** “</span>










=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]