[[toc]]
=Here's the deal= 
So I really hate my cite maker and it hates me, so it doesn't make me cites. We haven't changed much with the 1AC besides adding two cards to solvency and obviously updating all the brink evidence. If you are wondering anything else about what we are running, just email me (mmoorhead56@gmail.com). Oh, we also added stuff to our plan text, but we change it pretty often. The one posted on here is essentially the action that we defend, otherwise, if you are hitting us, ask for the specific plan text we are reading that round. 
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Valley== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention One is the Economy</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The US Economy is on the brink now</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Economist Intelligence Unit – ViewsWire, 9/19, 2011</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">The Economist Intelligence Unit continues to believe that </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">of uncertainty since the grim days of late 2008</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">U.S. economy key to the world economy—ripple effect</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Daily Yomiuri, 09</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (1/3/09, “Global Economic Revival Hinges on U.S. Recovery”, Lexis Nexis, MOORHEAD)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">As if rolling down a steep hill, </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">can revive the U.S. economy.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Incentives to the private sector on space issues empirically increases the economy</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Klamper 10</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Amy, Writer for SpaceNews.com, Senator Pushes for Tax Breaks on Private Spaceships”, 2010, http://www.space.com/8979-senator-pushes-tax-breaks-private-spaceships.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">WASHINGTON: U.S. Sen. </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">broadening the economic opportunities along our Space Coast."</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">That solves nuclear great power wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Mead, 09</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">If current market turmoil seriously damaged the performance </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">track, we may</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> still have to fight.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Privatization leads to increased innovation and quality that the government cannot access – spurs economic growth</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Edwards 09</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Chris, Director of Tax Policy Studies @ CATO Institute, M.A. in Economics, “Privatization”, February 2009 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/privatization]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Governments on every continent have sold off state</span>
AND
innovations that private entrepreneurs could bring to them.

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Privatization promotes innovation and efficiency through competition – past recessions prove that nothing increases the economy as well as the private sector</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Bouché & Volden 10</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">(Vanessa, Ph.D. candidate in Political Science @ Ohio State Univeristy & Craig, Professor of Political Science @ Ohio State University. “Privatization and Diffusion of Innovation” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://psweb.sbs.ohio-state.edu/faculty/cvolden/BVPrivatization.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;"> July 2010)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The empirical work arguing that contracting leads to </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">: </span>Privatization increases the likelihood of adopting innovations.


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention Two is Hegemony</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The termination of the U.S. Shuttle Program has put NASA on the brink and U.S. Space leadership has never been more vulnerable. Only clarification of NASA’s future role can boost morale and leadership </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Logdson 7/11</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">“The U.S. Space Programs Leadership Black Hole”, Washington Post, July 11, 2001. John M. Logsdon.</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are too many leaders of the U</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the U.S. future in space.</span>__

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Space leadership is key to overall US hegemony</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Stone 11</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Christopher, March 14, Space Policy Analyst and Strategist, The Space Review, “American Leadership in Space: Leadership Through Capability.” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Recently, Lou Friedman wrote a piece where </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">and objectives “worthy of a great nation”.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">NASA has no way of solving the shuttle problem in the near future</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AFP 11</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Agence France-Presse, 1/13/11 , “End of U.S. shuttle program poses safety risks, panel says”, http://www.mnn.com/earth-matters/space/stories/end-of-us-shuttle-program-poses-safety-risks-panel-says)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A climate of uncertainty in the US space </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">source service scenario" over the coming year.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Private Sector solves – they have the tech to start whenever they get an incentive to do so</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Augustine ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Chairman of the Review of U.S. Human Spaceflight Plans Committee (Augustine Commission), </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Augustine Commission, “Seeking A Human Spaceflight Program Worthy Of A Great Nation”, October 2009, p. 91 //Lack]//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Extending the Shuttle would provide more up-</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">position supported by the Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel.</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Your generic defense doesn’t apply – previous shuttles relied on private sector technology – no chance of anyone solving better than the private sector</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Augustine ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Chairman of the Review of U.S. Human Spaceflight Plans Committee (Augustine Commission), </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Augustine Commission, “Seeking A Human Spaceflight Program Worthy Of A Great Nation”, October 2009, p. 91 </span>// Lack]
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">This option follows the Flexible Path as an </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">differ only in the heavy-lift vehicle.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Privatization key to solve space leadership – outperforms other governments</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Gomez 11</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">(David, ” Russia has the edge in the space race now” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tgdaily.com/opinion-features/57034-russia-has-the-edge-in-the-space-race-now]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">I think that the space race is extremely </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">to Richard Branson or some other eccentric billionaire? </span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Heg Stops great power wars and accesses every major impact</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Thayer 06</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Bradley A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, The National Interest, November -December, "In Defense of Primacy", lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">A remarkable fact about international politics today--</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">**AND** </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">**leading source of positive externalities for the world**</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">. </span>**

Transition from U.S. dominance __causes conflict__—the //perception// of weakness __empirically spurs war__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg 11</span> (July/August, Aaron L., professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics, The National Interest, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">THE UNITED States and</span> the People’s Republic of
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, have so often been marked by war</span>.

__Finally__, the U.S. will __always__ try to __maintain hegemony__—it is only a question of //success//.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ferguson 9</span> (Niall, American Interest, http://www.the-american-interest.com/ai2/article.cfm?Id=335&MId=16)
So much for the American predicament. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">What </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">American grand strategy, that is pretty rich</span>.


Contention Three is 2012

Obama will lose reelections now
DAILY MAIL (London), 9/7, 2011

**__Barack Obama would lose the presidency if an__**
**__AND__**
**__the country is heading in the wrong direction.__**

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Increasing Jobs is the only way to spin this – nothing else matters</span>
Henry <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reske</span>, newsmax contributor, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">8/3</span> 2011 (Despite Debt Deal, Economy, Jobs Key Issues for 2012, http://www.newsmax.com/InsideCover/Obama-debt-deal-2012/2011/08/03/id/406008)
While __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">political analysts on both side of the </span>__
AND
the status quo will ‘change.’”

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Plan would create thousands of jobs</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">King 10</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">(Leo, Jacksonville Space News Examiner, “Nelson unveils commercial space plan”, Aug 19 2010 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.examiner.com/space-news-in-jacksonville/nelson-unveils-commercial-space-plan]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">U.S. </span>Sen<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">. Bill </span>Nelson
AND
at a time when we need it most.”

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Failure to dilute the Right wing power will collapse foreign policy-impacts are climate, Russia, china, and prolif</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Jim Lobe 10</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(11-8-2010, Obama foreign policy likely to face Republican challenges, online)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">While foreign policy issues played almost no role </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">hostile to multilateralism and engagement," he added.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">China relations solve nuclear war</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Conable and Lampton 93</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Barber B., President Emeritus – World Bank and David, President – National Committee, “China: The Coming Power”, Foreign Affairs, December / January, Lexis)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Regionally American interests are both numerous and important</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">ties to the P.R.C.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Russia relations stop conflict with Russia – nuclear war</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Cohen 2k</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(professor of Russian studies at New York University (Stephen, Failed Crusade, p. 196-205)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">These assurances are manifestly untrue and, coming </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">will reap the benefits or pay the price. </span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Sify 2010</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The findings of the comprehensive report</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">: 'The </span>__
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">release. These findings were published in Science.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Prolif causes extinction</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Arbatov 04</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Alexei, Corresponding Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and Director of the Center of International Security, Institute of the World Economy and International Relations, Russian Academy of Sciences, 4/13/2004. “Horizontal Proliferation: New Challenges”, Russia in Global Affairs, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/7/531.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">As the situation stands, further </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear proliferation </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">future inevitable as many risk factors will overlap</span>__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">GOP win causes Iran strikes</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Curiel 10</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan, Prof of Journalism @ UCLA, 7-28-2010, “What just might happen if Obama loses in 2012,”</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:AIlWa6eGDQcJ:trueslant.com/jonathancuriel/2010/07/28/what-just-might-happen-if-obama-loses-in-2012/+If+Obama+losses+2012&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> )</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War in Iran: The Republicans’ ascension marks </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">leading front for insurgency against the United States.</span>__

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Strikes cause Middle East war and oil shocks</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Petras 05</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(James, former Professor of Sociology at Binghamton University, "Israel's War with Iran: The Coming Mid East Conflagration Or Israel Bombs Iran: The US Suffers the Consequences," 12/15/05, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thestruggle.org/petras.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US then would attempt to pressure Russia </span>__
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">and provoking a major world recession or worse.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And that causes Nuclear War</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Primakov, 9</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[September, Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”]</span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Middle East conflict is unparalleled in terms </span>__
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">does not completely rule out such a possibility. </span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Oil shocks risk extinction </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Roberts 04</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Paul, Regular Contributor to Harpers and NYT Magazine, “The End of Oil: On The Edge of a Perilous New World”, p. 93-94)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The obsessive focus on oil is hardly surprising</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and simple survival than terrorism or even war</span>__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and development of space via incentives to the private sector to restart the human space mission that will be overlooked by NASA and the FAA.</span>

Contention Four is Solvency

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Private sector involvement is an imperative – NASA has no funding and needs a corporate fill-in</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Sauser 9</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">(Brittany, “Private Space Technology Powers up” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.technologyreview.com/computing/23576/?a=f]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">In the coming weeks the Obama administration will </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">president of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Ad Astra Rocket Company</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, agrees.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Tax incentives to private corporations are best toward addressing the problems in the space program</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Ocregister, 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Peter Navarro: Privatization in space wise, to a point May 17, 2010|://articles.ocregister.com/2010-05-17/opinion/24624955_1_private-space-space-shuttle-schedule-space-industry)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">To his credit, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Mr. Obama is </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">to drive our economy in the 21st century.</span>__

=Negative= 

Ask us what we run/go for pre-round, otherwise email Michael (mmoorhead56@gmail.com) with specific cite requests or wondering what we run on the negative in general.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]