[[toc]]
=September-October= 

==Affirmative== 

===Lucy AC=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">V- Justice = morality</span>

Our concepton of the animal is flawed
Donaldson
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(Brianne Donaldson, Claremont School of Theology and Center for Neuroeconomics Studies at Clarement Graduate University, Discourse First, Cages Second: A New Locus for Animal Liberation, Between the Species, Issue X, 2010)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This is the. . this planet with</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;"> We construct value through a process of reflective reasoning</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">- korsgaard</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">(Christine M., Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy at Harvard, The Sources of Normativity, 1996)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"The human mind . . . endorse that desire"</span>

aff burden: prove that animals and humans share natural good
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">- we have a shared good with animals</span>

korsgaard

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">"because we are . . . our animal nature"</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">- share a natural good</span>

korsgaard

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">"to explain what . . . its own sake"</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">- we have similar interests as well</span>

korsgaard

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">"this is part . . .the other animals"</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">- animals communicate claims through cries</span>

korsgaard

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">"from here the . . . obligations to animals"</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">- research shows we are biologically the same as animals</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">Cassuto </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">[David N., Associate Professor of Law, Pace University School of Law. B.A., Wesleyan University, J.D., University of California, Berkeley, Boalt Hall School of Law, Ph.D., Indiana University], “BRED MEAT: THE CULTURAL FOUNDATION OF THE FACTORY FARM,” Law and Contemporary Problems, 70 Law & Contemp. Probs. 59, winter 2007,]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"this article takes . . . dolphins to pigeons"</span>


Animals make moral decisions and exhibit altruism

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 24px;">**Hilden** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A Contractarian View of Animal Rights: Insuring Against the Possibility of Being a Non-Human Animal </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">By Julie Hilden]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> However, the claim. . . beagles and dolphins</span>

if animals arne't moral agents then right to no duties
wenar
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, Leif, "Rights", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), forthcoming URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2011/entries/rights/> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">you ahve a . . . the licensed activity</span>
Animals expect fairness and see benefit from joint interaction

**Madrigal** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2008/12/dogenvy/</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Like humans </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">and . . . university of vienna</span>

some animals are rational
**Banquet and Hood**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://news.smh.com.au/breaking-news-world/i-control-therefore-i-am-chimps-selfaware-says-study-20110504-1e7hk.html]]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Chimpanzees are self-aware. . .self monitoring process</span>__

deinal of rights legitimizes oppression
kahn
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard Kahn, Core Faculty in Education at Antioch University Los Angeles, the specialisist in Ecopedagogy Paulo Freire and Eco-Justice: Updating Pedagogy of the Oppressed for the Age of Ecological Calamity, 2007 "when frere's work . .. globalization from below"</span>


==Negative== 

V: Justice = morality
ST: Adhering to contractarian principles of mutual restraint

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black;">Only a contractarian system that derives principles of mutual restraint from individuals’ self-interest accounts for why individuals in a pre-ethical context would develop a concept of ethics.</span></span>

Gauthier <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print]</span>

“Moral principles are . . . in their affairs”
Contracts provide a stable base for ethics

Voice

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul Voice. Morality and Agreement A defense of moral Contractarianism. 2002. Peter Lang Publishing]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Contractarianism explains how . . . things go wrong”</span>
Wouldn't engage b/c weaker than humans

Gauthier 2 ibid

"but the strengths .. . rationally grounded morality"

Animals act on instinct and so cannot self sanction themselves to respect contracts

Korsgaard <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and our Duties to Animals, delivered in the Tanner Lectures by Christine M. Korsgaard, 2004]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"as the example . . . is certainly there"</span>

=November-December= 

==Affirmative== 

==Negative== 
=January-February= 

==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Metaphysics comes first because we determine morality on the basis of what exists in the first place</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Pravas Jivan Choudhury, Visva Bharati University, "Vindication of Solipsism", The Review of Metaphysics, Vol. 6, No. 3 (Mar., 1953), pp. 381-385</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In moments of aesthetic detachment we realize we're in adream</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Pravas Jivan Choudhury, Visva Bharati University, "Vindication of Solipsism", The Review of Metaphysics, Vol. 6, No. 3 (Mar., 1953), pp. 381-385</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">We have no logical reason to posit the existence of an external reality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. C. Ewing, Hegeler Institute, “Solipsism”, The Monist, Vol. 41, No. 3, 1931</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Empiricism – </span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">All coherent thought is based upon experiences. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">**<span style="color: #222222;">Hume</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(David Hume; Edited by an Copyrights Jonathan Bennett 2010-2015; “Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">” http://www.earlymoderntexts.com/pdfbits/he1</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Brain states >> exp.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Mark Leon, University of the Witwatersrand, “Solipsism Regained” Analysis, Vol. 47, No. 2 (Mar., 1987)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Subjective determinations of ethics are the only way to escape infinite regress </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Alasdair Macintyre. After Virtue.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">) I will deliberate responses to injustice, so they are within the scope of permissibility. **Foley**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Deliberate Action.” Richard Foley. The Philosophical Review, Vol. 86, No. 1 (Jan., 1977), pp. 58-69. Duke University Press. JSTOR</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The neg has the positive burden of proving the resolution impermissible. **Babic** clarifies moral permissibility</span><span class="LDUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">:</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>


----
[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Jovan Babic. “Justifying Forgiveness.” Peace Review, March 2000.













==Negative== 
=March-April= 

==Affirmative== 

==Negative== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]