[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Long Beach== 
__**Observation 1: Universal Man**__
**The dominant space narrative has already been constructed by the forces of imperialism into an exploitable frontier, and if left unchallenged, will become even more of a reality. Despite this, we still have the power to redirect the narrative with Science Fiction.**
<span class="cite">**Lupro 09**</span>(Michael Mooradian Lupro, teaches in University Studies at North Carolina A&T State Universityand has done extensive doctoral work on space tourism, SPACE ODDITIES FOR THE AGE OF SPACE TOURISM 2009)
<span class="underline">The existing discursive construction of space</span>,…<span class="underline"> anyone who cares to participate in its construction</span>

**Today capitalism and imperialism are sustained through science fiction which functions as an R and D arm of the predictions and futures industry. A bright and technocratic future is produced for capital and the west while the predictions for Africa and the oppressed are dystopic. Not only do these predictions relegate the disempowered to the past but they also have the ability to draw society toward their implementation.**
<span class="cite">**Eshun 03**</span> K O DWO E S H U N, writer, theorist and film-maker course leader of the MA in Aural and Visual Cultures at Goldsmiths College, University of London. Further Considerations on Afrofuturism, 2003, http://idh4000morefiles.pbworks.com/f/Eshun.pdf
Fast forward to the early twenty-first century…<span class="UnderlineBold"> discourse that aspires to unchallengeable certainty</span>.

**Extinction.**
<span class="cite">**SANTOS 03**</span> Boaventura de Sousa Santos, is Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, University of Coimbra (Portugal), April 2003, http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Franz Hinkelammert, </span><span class="UnderlineBold">the West has repeatedly… and liberty turns into a machine of horror and destruction</span>

__**Observation 2: Trouble on Triton**__

**Bron is the epitome of the mythos of the conquistador. Tall, white, masculine, heterosexual. Under the traditional science fiction narrative, Bron would fly through the cosmos, conquering planet after planet as a curvaceous female clung to his leg and breathily cheered him on to new frontiers. Yet in Samuel R. Delany’s //Triton//****, Bron’s plight is far from the expected. Instead of playing the conqueror, Bron is used to explore imaginative possibilities outside our status quo. Only in the heterotopia can we dare to imagine a powerful white hegemon undergoing a sex change and taking on a black transsexual warrior as a lover. Exploration beyond the mesosphere creates<span style="color: black;"> a place where the agents of imperialism can be challenged and where we can encounter our limits and be transformed by the experience. We need not dwell on a triumphal utopian interpretation of this, however - we need an ambiguous look at the utopian politics of space.</span>**
Golumbia 95 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(David, //Assistant Professor// English, Media Studies and Linguistics Digital Media, Cultural Studies, Theories of Language at Virginia University, Black and White World: Race, Ideology, and Utopia in Triton and Star Trek, http://www.jstor.org/pss/1354531)</span>
Triton, written in 1973 and 1974 and published…(**__female to male) sex change__** operation himself.

**We therefore advocate the ambiguous heterotopia of Triton as a vision for exploring and developing space.**

__**Observation 3: Space Race**__

**Our discussion of the discursive constructions that make racial domination possible is key to stop it and spills over into the broader educational space. The racist disciplinary power of the debate community that marginalizes blackness can only be sustained and instituted by those within it—we all must say NO MORE and shed the chains of exclusionary white oppression.**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">**Reid-Brinkley 08**</span> (Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008. http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf)
The attempts at educational reform are not limited… discipline its differently situated stakeholders.

**Intellectuals must map out the structures of social dominance because individual participation sustains it.**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">**Reid-Brinkley 08**</span> (Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008. [[http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf]])
To begin an investigation of these questions of race,… and rhetorical engagement with contemporary racism in America.

__**Observation 4: Junk City**__

**Debate has traditionally been the clash between the affirmatives utopian advantages and the negative’s dystopian nuclear war scenarios that ultimately results in stagnate debate and ignored assumptions. We instead offer a heterotopic alternative: Junk City.**
<span class="cite">**Delany 90**</span>(Samuel, award-winning science fiction author and afrofuturist, “On Triton and other matters: An interview with Samuel Delaney,” Science Fiction Studies, http://www.depauw.edu/sfs/interviews/delany52interview.htm)
Q: In the dialogue with The Dispossessed, if Bron… I suppose so. It's certainly one thing I meant

<span class="cite">**The political task at hand is not to impose overarching utopian plans. Instead, we must build new structures outside of the dominant hegemonies from the discarded shards laying around us here in Junk City in order to create a new heterotopic political.**</span>
<span class="cite">**Delany 90**</span>(Samuel, award-winning science fiction author and afrofuturist, “On Triton and other matters: An interview with Samuel Delaney,” Science Fiction Studies, http://www.depauw.edu/sfs/interviews/delany52interview.htm)
Q: I find it curious that the utopian possibilities… though it's often the engineers who provide the junk the gomi no sensei works with.

**The false choice presented by policy debate is between a static utopian plan text that seeks perfection and an anti-utopian status quo which views change as impossible. This binary leads to totalitarianism and the subordination of all life. We should reject this binary in favor of an ambiguous heterotopia.**
__Bell 10__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">David Bell, Graduate Student Researcher at University of Nottingham, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">//Political Perspectives// 2010 Vol. 4 (1) 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> **__Authoritarian utopianism is driven by a desire for perfection…. Anti-Utopians are merely those who believe we are living in the good place__**</span>
=Negative= 
==Past Rounds==
===Long Beach===

Round 1 vs. Damien ?? (China ISS Co-op)
T-Its
Cap K (2NR)
Case Defense

Round 3 vs. Damien ?? (China ISS Co-op)
T-Its
K of Realism (2NR)

Round 5 vs. Notre Dame KS (ORS)
Vagueness
T-Exploration
Chaloupka K (2NR)
Case

Octos vs. Notre Dame GS (Climate Sats with critical Cosmopolitanism)
T-Its
Weaponization DA
Luke K (2NR)
Hardt and Negri on case (2NR)

Quarters vs. Juan Diego KW (SPS)
Vagueness
Cap K (2NR)
Case Defense
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Luke on Case (2NR) </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]