=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
==<span style="font-size: 48px; text-align: center;">Space Debris Aff</span>== 

===<span style="text-align: center;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>=== 

**No programs to remove debris in the status quo, and any increase in debris makes space impassible.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wilder ‘10</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Benjamin, Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, B.S., University of South Alabama, Naval Postgraduate School, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Thesis for a Master of Science in Physics at the Naval Postgraduate School</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Power Beaming, Orbital Debris Removal, And Other Space Applications Of A Ground Based Free Electron Laser</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, March 2010, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada518696.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, SP]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Considering the alarming rate of … </span><span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">as proposed by Project Orion.</span>

**And, the only way to prevent Kessler syndrome is through removing debris now**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kessler ‘09</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Donald J. Kessler, Donald J. Kessler is an American astrophysicist and former </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">NASA</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> scientist known for his studies regarding </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">space debris</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Kessler worked at the </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Johnson Space Center</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Houston, Texas</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, as part of NASA's Environmental Effects Project Office. Kessler first published his ideas in 1978, in an academic paper titled "Collision Frequency of Artificial Satellites: The Creation of a Debris Belt."</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[2]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The paper established Kessler's reputation, and NASA subsequently made him the head of the newly-created Orbital Debris Program Office to study the issue and issue guidelines to slow the accumulation of space debris.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[1]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> , The Kessler Syndrome, March 8, 2009 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://webpages.charter.net/dkessler/files/KesSym.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, rn]</span>

<span class="underline">We are entering a new era … debris hazard to future spacecraft</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>

**And, The brink is NOW – immediate action** <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">necessary</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Blake ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Heidi Staff Writer at The Daily Telegraph, 5/27/10 “Satellites threatened by orbiting rubbish dump,” Lexis]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">SPACE is so littered with … </span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, the Space Posture Review says. </span>




===Plan Text:=== 
The United States Federal Government should implement and fully fund a program to use ground-based lasers to remove orbital debris in space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.



===<span style="text-align: center;">Contention 2 - Warming</span>=== 

**Space debris threatens critical warming monitoring satellites**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dunstan and Szoka ‘09 </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[James Dunstan practices space and technology law at Garvey Schubert Barer. Berin Szoka is a Senior Fellow at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, a Director of the Space Frontier Foundation, and member of the FAA’s Commercial Space Transportation Advisory Committee. “Beware Of Space Junk: Global Warming Isn’t the Only Major Environmental Problem,” Tech Liberation Front (TLF), </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://techliberation.com/2009/12/18/beware-of-space-junk-global-warming-isnt-the-only-major-environmental-problem/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">As world leaders meet in … </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">of surviving </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">true </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">climatic catastrophes. </span>

**And, Satellites key to monitor and prevent warming**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Chow ‘11</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Denise, writer @ space.com, “NASA Primes New Satellite to Study Earth's Climate”, 2/9/11, http://www.space.com/10797-nasa-glory-satellite-earth-climate.html) JPG</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA is preparing to launch … decisions related to environmental change." </span>

<span class="Style8pt1">**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Climate satellites key to develop a solution to warming</span>**</span>
**LaPan 9/6**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Jennifer, a researcher at the NASA Langley Research Center, “NPP Satellite Prevents Gap in Critical Climate Data”, [[http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/NPP/news/ceres-npp-qa.html]], 09/06/11]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Five satellites and 27 years later</span><span class="Style8pt1">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, __… is__</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> therefore </span><span class="Style8pt1">**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a critical climate problem</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>

**And, Warming leads to extinction – we’re approaching the red zone**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Archer et al ‘8 </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Archer lead the study and is a Professor of Geophysical Sciences @ U Chicago, Dozens of other participants, including NASA scientists, professors of Biology, etc. “Anthropogenic Climate Destabilization: A Worst-case Scenario,” Foundation for the Future, September, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.futurefoundation.org/documents/HUM_ExecSum_ClimateDestabilization.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">This summary intends – rather than </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">… </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">CO2 levels</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> in the atmosphere</span>



**And, global warming skeptics are biased – ties to ExxonMobil, prefer our evidence**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Siegel</span>**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> ‘11</span>**
<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">A recent analysis</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> conducted by … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">pressing issues</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> of our era.”</span>


===<span style="text-align: center;">Contention 3 - Terrorism</span>=== 

**Space debris destroys communications satellites**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Moltz ‘02 </span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[James Clay Moltz, associate director and research professor with the Center for Nonproliferation Studies (CNS) at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. Future Security in Space: Commercial, Military, and Arms Control Trade-Offs. Center for NonProliferation Studies. 2002. Scholar] AK</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">Maybe the reason missile defense … jeopardizes the possibility of space exploration.</span>
**And, Space Communications key to the war on Terrorism**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Douglass ‘05</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[John W. Douglass, AIA President and Chief Executive Officer. National Security Space Programs. Critical Defense Assets in the War on Terrorism, Washington Pipeline. October 05. Volume 10 number 2. http://www.aia-aerospace.org/aianews/newsletters/2005/oct05news.cfm#5 DM]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">This grim security environment underscores … </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">and a strengthened space launch infrastructure.</span>

**And, Satellites key to eventual solvency of terrorism**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Discovery News 11</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Irene Klotz, Reporter, Discovery News, Mini Spy Satellites to Track Terrorists, Discovery News, 6/7/11, http://news.discovery.com/space/cubesat-spy-satellites-terrorists-110607.html, KR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Keeping an eye on terrorists … </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">objectives were achieved," Ticer wrote. </span>


**And, Unchecked Terrorism leads to extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Alexander ‘03</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Yonah Alexander is professor and director of the Inter-University for Terrorism Studies in Israel and the United States, “Terrorism Myths and Realities”, Washington Times. August 27, 2003. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2003/aug/27/20030827-084256-8999r/?page=all</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">”]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Last week’s brutal suicide bombings … </span>**__victory, there is no survival__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">.” </span>

===<span style="text-align: center;">Contention 4 - Solvency</span>=== 
**Monitoring fails- Our current technology in the status quo is insufficient.**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Shalal-Esa</span>**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> ‘09</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Andrea, ISON Author;</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://isonteam.com/news/press-about-ison/space-traffic-congestion-needs-money-technology/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; page 2]</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The crash of a U.S. communications satellite … track every object in space.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, Disassortative mixing makes active debris removal the only viable solution.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Liou and Johnson ‘10</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span>//

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Nicholas Johnson. is NASA's chief scientist for orbital debris at the Johnson Space Center, Lewis Liou is the Engineering Science Contract Group at NASA </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Acta AstronauticaVolume 66, Issues 1-2</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, January-February 2010, Pages 257-268 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">http://www.sciencedirect.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/science/article/pii/S0094576509003191]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">A new method for investigating </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">… bodies approaching one another at 10 km/s. </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px; text-decoration: none;">And, the aff is the only cost-effective solution for debris removal-other methods fail</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Imburgia ‘11</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[Joseph Imburgia</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">is a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, He is a member of the Supreme Court of the United States, member of the Society of International Law. Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk, May, The Vanderbilt University Law School, Lexis Nexis] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">Undoubtedly, technological accomplishments in the … for a viable remediation technique."</span>



**And, Ground-based lasers can remove it all in 3 years**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The Economist ‘10</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010 [[http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The real threat now comes … this size</span> **__in three years.__**


===<span style="text-align: center;">Contention 5 – Impact Comparison</span>=== 

**Major war is obsolete – small conflicts don’t escalate**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mandelbaum ‘99</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Michael, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, 2-25, “Is Major War Obsolete?” Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, February 25, 1999]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">My argument says, tacitly, that … have erupted </span>**__can be absorbed.__**

**And, War is diminishing – terrorism replacing it as threat**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mueller ‘05</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[John, Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Policy and Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University , “This just in: War has almost ceased to exist”, polisci.osu.edu/faculty/jmueller/THISINDC.PDF, January 9]</span>

**__Over the last years, many … anything whatever about nuclear weapons.__**

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, less than 10% of population dies from nuclear war, even including fallout and famine</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Martin ‘82 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Brian, researcher at the University of Wollangong. “The global health effects of nuclear war.” //Current Affairs Bulletin//. Vol. 59, No. 7. pg. 14-26. <http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82cab/index.html>.) </span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">In </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">the immediate vicinity of</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> a … </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">fallout,[9] ozone, climate and fires.</span></span>
**And, timeframe doesn’t matter – extinction always outweighs**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Verschuur ‘96</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">There is an even more … question is worth thinking about.</span>
**And, Space debris is more important than philosophical considerations – we outweigh the neg’s K**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Williamson ‘03</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Mark, Space Technology Consultant, 1/29/03, “Space ethics and protection of the space environment”, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964602000644%20ACC%207/20/11|http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964602000644 ACC 7/20/11]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">This reference to examples, both … current business and domestic environment.</span>