=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
==Contention One—Near Earth Objects== 
**Risk of a strike is high**
**Easterbrook ‘8**
(Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)
Breakthrough ideas have a way of seeming … race is riding on the plane.”

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NRC 2010</span>**</span>
(National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)

Ground-based telescopes have … population as possible, especially imminent impactors.

**Detection is improving—we’ll discover thousands of potentially hazardous NEOs**
**Jones ‘8**
(Thomas, fellow at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Asteroid deflection: Planning for the inevitable,” Aerospace America, October, lexis)
AS NASA's Spaceguard Survey searches … preparation, planning, and timely decision-making.
**Probability and magnitude are 100 percent**
**Kunich ’97**
(John, Lt. Colonel USAF, B.S., M.S., University of Illinois; J.D., Harvard Law School; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis)
Irrespective of the ultimate resolution of these … by the military, including the United States Air Force.

**Even a small NEO strike outweighs nuclear war**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)
First I'd like to thank you for the … weapon in the current U.S. nuclear arsenal.


**Small NEO could kill the planet via ozone depletion**
**MacCracken ‘7**
(Michael C., fellow at the Climate Institute, Ch. 16: The Climatic Effects of Asteroid and Comet Impacts: Consequences for an Increasingly Interconnected Society, in Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach, SpringLink)
During and following an impact, nitric … That mass extinctions would result from the largest impacts appears quite plausible.

**Ozone depletion causes complete extinction**
**Greenpeace ‘95**
(Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer -- A GREENPEACE REPORT with contributions from OZONE ACTION -- http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html)
When chemists Sherwood Rowland … so quickly - the stakes are literally the continuation of life on earth.
**Extinction is categorically different from any other impact—even if they win a nuclear war kills 99 percent of the population, an asteroid strike still outweighs by an order of magnitude**
**Matheny ‘7**
(Jason G., Prof of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, v27n5)
Even if extinction events are … humanity and those that threaten 100%.


**Small Strikes triggers accidental nuclear war**
**Worden ‘2**
(Brigadier General Simon P., Hearings on the threat of near-Earth asteroids (NEAs) before the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, House Committee on Science, October 3, 2002. http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/gov_threat_2002.cfm)
Two and a half months ago, Pakistan … well understood by all to be just what they are.

==**Plan**== 
**Thus the plan—The United States federal government should substantially increase space-based Near Earth Object detection technologies and non-nuclear asteroid deflection capabilities.**
==Contention Two—Solvency== 
**The world is awaiting America’s lead**
**France ‘2k**
(Martin, Lt. Colonel, USAF, “Planetary Defense: Eliminating the Giggle Factor, [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apje.html|Air & Space Power Journal]], http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/cc/france2.html)
A key component of the Shoemaker … serves to relay NEO identification to concerned groups and fellow participants.

**U.S. unilateral action solves best**
**Barrett ‘6**
(Scott, Professor and Director of International Policy, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Center for the Study of Globalization, Yale University, 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 527, lexis)
But can we expect that this public good … the burden and other countries would have recognized their obligation to pay their fair share.

**NASA is committing the US into a nuclear-only deflection system that’s doomed to fail**
**Chapman ‘6**
<Clark, Senior Scientist, Southwest Research Institute Dept. of Space Studies, Boulder CO and Member of the Board, B612 Foundation, Critique of "2006 Near-Earth Object Survey and Deflection Study: Final Report" Published 28 Dec. 2006 by NASA Hq. Program Analysis & Evaluation Office, http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/NASA-CritChap.doc>
Furthermore, the Report takes a … all other deflection options!

**Nuclear option will fail, but the public will demand nuclear weapons unless we develop other tech**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, former astronaut, Executive Vice President of CTA Commercial Systems, Inc. and Director of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) Systems and research, and scientist at the Experimental Astronomy Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), “Asteroid Deflection; Hopes and Fears,” Aug., Presented at the World Federation of Scientists Workshop on Planetary Emergencies, Erice, Sicily, August 2004 http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/Asteroid_Deflection.doc)
The nuclear explosive options will all … the most fragile, can reliably be used.

**Nuclear explosions are imprecise and cause fragmentation making the impact worse**
**Lu ‘4**
(Statement of Dr. Ed Lu President, B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)
Why does the asteroid need to be … other asteroids for the purposes of resource utilization.

**Even dust fragments cause an explosion on Earth**
**Nemchinov et al. ‘8**
(Ivan Nemchinov, Valery Shuvalov, & Vladmir Svetsov, Institute for Dynamics of Geospheres, Russian Academy of Sciences, “Main Factors of Hazards Due to Comets and Asteroids,” in Catastrophic Events Caused by Cosmic Objects, pg 58-59)
If the NEO cannot be deflected away … for obtaining such data for small cosmic objects.

**Fragmentation prevents other forms of deflection**
**Chapman ‘3**
(Clark, scientist at the Southwest Research Institute's Department of Space Studies, Great Impact Debates, Collision Course for Earth 3/03 [[@http://www.astrobio.net/index.php?option=com_debate&task=detail&id=389]])
Clark Chapman: The advantage of using nuclear … next. In short, it is a very bad idea.

**Fragmentation causes oxygen depletion and extinction**
**Verschurr ‘96**
(Gerrit, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]] of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physics|physics]] for the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Memphis|U of Memphis]], Impact: The Threat of Asteroids and Comets, pg. 40)
Did consider are potential .. into a desolate and barren rock.

**Use of multiple different deflection capabilities is key to solve**
**IAA ‘9**
(International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
[[@http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf]])
The probability of successfully … the missions as they unfold.

**Early warning means deflection tech will be ready in time**
**British National Space Centre ‘2k**
(British National Space Centre, Report of the Task Force on Potentially Hazardous Near Earth Objects, http://www.spacecentre.co.uk/neo/report.html)
A number of possible mechanisms have … into the practical possibilities of deflection.

**Mirrors solve**
**Engineer ‘7**
(The Engineer, The Big Picture: Mirrored Army to Protect Earth, 10-15, lexis)
A fleet of satellites carrying large … 'But if we go up to 20m, we'd need 10 satellites and 200 days.'

**Kinetic impactor solves**
**Koenig & Chyba ‘7**
(Jesse D. and Christopher F., SpaceDev Inc and Department of Astrophysical Sciences and Program on Science and Global Security, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Impact Deflection of Potentially Hazardous Asteroids Using Current Launch Vehicles, http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/S2-3--Koenig-Paper.pdf)
Nuclear explosions, and a wide variety … least risky, and fastest to effect.

**Direct push solves**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, former astronaut, Executive Vice President of CTA Commercial Systems, Inc. and Director of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) Systems and research, and scientist at the Experimental Astronomy Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), “Asteroid Deflection; Hopes and Fears,” Aug., Presented at the World Federation of Scientists Workshop on Planetary Emergencies, Erice, Sicily, August 2004 http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/Asteroid_Deflection.doc)
Finally there is the concept of …before the US Senate, the National Academy of

**Deflection technologies can work together**
**Schweickart ‘7**
(Rusty, former astronaut head of B612 Foundation, The Sky Is Falling. Really. March 16, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/16/opinion/16schweickart.html?_r=1]])
The good news is that … its new trajectory to our liking.

==Contention Three—No Disad Impact== 
**Major war won’t happen**

**a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics**


Deudney et al 9
<span style="color: black;">professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs,http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)</span>

This bleak outlook is based … revivalists acknowledge.

**b.) Trends Prove**

**Mueller 09**
(professor of political science at Ohio State University, [John, Political Science Quarterly, “War Has Almost Ceased to Exist:An Assessment”, http://tigger.uic.edu/~bvaler/Mueller%20War%20Dead.pdf]

THE PRESENT CONDITION No matter how … of ceasing to exist as a substantial phenomenon.

**Second, it won’t escalate**

**Robinson 01**
President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command (Paul, March 22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm)

Let me then state … and maintain a stable and peaceful world.

**Best data proves nuclear war cannot cause nuclear winter**
**Ball ‘6**
(Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)
I argued vigorously with … likelihood, as to underestimate them (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties).

**Our evidence is comparative—war, environmental destruction, terrorism, and economic collapse are all dwarfed by an asteroid impact**
**Steel 2**
Joule Physics Laboratory, University of Salford (October 24, Duncan, “ Neo Impact Hazard: the Cancer Metaphor ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf pg. 93)

(8) Just because there are more … would then supplant our Earthly concerns.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]