[[toc]]
=Disads= 
==Politics== 
===SKFTA-Wake Forest=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
**SKFTA will pass—political capital is key**
**Barkley & Peterson 9/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Tom Barkley and Kristina Peterson, Dow Jones Newswires, “US Business Groups Optimistic About Trade Pacts”, 2011] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- U.S. </span>__business groups voiced renewed … out__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the House side.</span>

**Political capital is crucial to securing passage of KORUS**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kim, 7-6 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Sukhan, senior partner at the law firm of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP in Washington, D.C., KOREA JOONGANG DAILY, “[Viewpoint] Endgame for Korus”, 2011, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2938477</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Four years after striking an … succeed in his audacious gamble.</span>
**Impact --- the deal is key to relations with South Korea --- key to deter North Korean belligerence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gerwin 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Edward F., Senior Fellow for Trade and Global Economic Policy – Third Way, “5 Reasons America Needs Korea Free Trade Deal”, Wall Street Journal, 12-16, http://blogs.wsj.com/economics/2010/12/16/guest-contribution-5-reasons-america-needs-korea-free-trade-deal/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5. China is Not a Fan. </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">… </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“beefy” </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">benefits for American trade</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**And, Korean crisis escalates to great power conflict**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes and Green 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, Professor of International Relations – Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and Director – Nautilus Institute, and Michael Hamel, Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report, 1-5, http://www.nautil us.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At worst, </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">there is the … </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">consideration from the international community.</span>
====<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Overview</span>==== 

Guaranteed Escalation and extinction

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Daily Times 7-15 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– “North Korea Poses ‘very real’ threat: Mullen”, 2011, http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/default.asp?page=2011\07\15\story_15-7-2011_pg4_1</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SEOUL: </span><span class="underline">North Korea poses a ... they will continue to do that (attack).”</span>
===China Bashing-Johns Creek=== 
====**1NC Shell**==== 
**Boehner will block China Bashing in the House**
**MiniNews, 10/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 11, [[https://mninews.deutsche-boerse.com/index.php/us-congresswksenate-vote-china-fx-and-obamas-jobs-plan?q=content/us-congresswksenate-vote-china-fx-and-obamas-jobs-plan]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress faces another busy week … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">a House vote on the bill</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Political capital necessary to stop the legislation. Passage will collapse relations with China and trigger a trade war**
**Reuters, 9/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]] DOA: 9/2/11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Democrats like House Minority Leader … </span>__expend political capital to block it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Boehner key – the bill will pass in the House if he allows a vote. He’s blocking it now**
**Reuters, 10/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/11/usa-china-idUSN1E79A0W320111011]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The bill is widely expected … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be needed for passage.</span>
**Plan alienates Boehner – he opposes space spending**
**The Fiscal Times, 9-14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/10, [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2010/09/14/Boehner-Budget-Rollback-would-Cut-Scores-of-Agencies.aspx#page1|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2010/09/14/Boehner-Budget-Rollback-would-Cut-Scores-of-Agencies.aspx#page1]]</span>
__House Republican Leader John Boehner’s …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">spending proposed by President Obama.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Bill violates WTO and causes trade wars</span>**</span>
**WSJ 10/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“ UPDATE: China Hits Back At US After Senate Vote On Currency Bill”, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20111012-700094.html]], 2011] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BEIJING (Dow Jones)--</span>__China hit …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Foreign Ministry said in a statement.</span>

**Extinction**
Pazner 8<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael J., Faculty – New York Institute of Finance, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, p. 137-138)</span>
<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The rise in</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> isolationism and </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 13pt;">… </span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 11pt;">beginnings of a new </span>__</span>//<span style="background-color: lime;">world war</span>//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

====<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC UQ</span>**</span>==== 
**It wont pass now**
**a. House Republicans**
**Washington Post, 10-12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/china-slams-us-currency-bill-as-protectionist-threat-to-trade-global-recovery/2011/10/12/gIQAHJZKeL_story.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tuesday’s 63-35 Senate vote showed a bipartisan … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">to take up the measure</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**b. Boehner**
**Seeing Through the Forest, 10/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, [[http://www.seeingtheforest.com/archives/2011/10/will_the_us_hou.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even as the bill likely … to [[http://thinkprogress.org/politics/2010/01/27/79313/foreign-lobbying-elections/|influence]] our [[http://chinalawandpolicy.com/tag/foreign-influence-in-u-s-elections/|elections]].)</span>

**c. Won’t be taken up**
**New York Times, 10-11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, [[http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/10/11/congress-the-week-ahead-2/]] [[http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/author/jennifer-steinhauer/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After a … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Republicans to consider the measure.</span>__

**d. Major Opposition**
**Reuters 10/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“White House working with Congress on yuan bill issues”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/12/us-china-usa-yuan-whitehouse-idUSTRE79B65020111012]], 2011] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Democratic-controlled Senate passed a … discussing with Congress those issues."</span>

**e. assumes passage in Senate**
**Macedonia Online, 10/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, [[http://macedoniaonline.eu/content/view/19344/52/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some lawmakers argue that the … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">be passed by the House.</span>__

====<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Overview</span>**</span>==== 
**Turns case—collapses heg**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Henry C </span>**KLiu**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Asia Times Online, 8/20/0</span>**5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Trade wars can lead to shooting wars, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/GH20Dj01.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Developing countries should not misconstrue … power would be a good thing.</span>

====**Taiwan Impact**==== 
**Trade with china key to moderating hardliners and averting war over Taiwan**
**Dorn 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James A. Dorn, 2000 is a China specialist at the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C., and Ted Galen Carpenter is the Vice President for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. The Korea Herald on May 23]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Taiwan__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> issue </span>__remains an …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">will be an emerging threat."</span>

**Extinction**
**Straits Times 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">June 25, 2000, Pg. l/n</span>
__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> high-intensity </span>__scenario postulates a … see the destruction of civilisation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Econ Impact</span>**</span>==== 
**Bill passage leads to a double-dip recession**
**Business Times, 10/13**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, [[http://www.businesstimes.com.sg/sub/news/story/0,4574,460281,00.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Critics in the US still … </span>__the probability of a double dip.'__

**Global economic crisis causes war---__…__ account for global crises properly**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the answer to the … considered ancillary to those views.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Payroll Tax-Glenbrooks</span>=== 

====1NC Shell==== 

**Payroll Tax Cuts will pass – political capital is key**

**The Hill 11/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“White House thinks Obama has regained 'upper hand' with GOP on economy”, http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/192973-white-house-thinks-obama-has-regained-upper-hand-with-gop, 2011] SV</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>__Obama has regained the “… winter to be “fairly dramatic.”__



**—INSERT LINK—**



**Political capital is key to payroll taxes**

**Mail Online UK****10/13**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“'I won't take no for an answer on jobs bill': Defiant Obama vows to continue despite Senate defeat”, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2048604/Obama-I-wont-answer-Jobs-bill.html?ito=feeds-newsxml, 2011] SV</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Barack </span>__Obama has recorded a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the bill, according to SBS. </span>



**Payroll tax cut portion of Jobs Bill needed to avert economic shock that will tip US back into a second recession**

**Washington Post 9/8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Just How Effective is the Paroll Tax Cuts”, -11, p. http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/just-how-effective-is-the-payroll-tax-cut/2011/09/08/gIQAodirCK_blog.html, 2011] SV</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President</span> __Obama__ __is expected to … at least avert further degradation.__

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2NC Overview</span>==== 

**A double dip recession would be much worse than the first and trigger an economic depression**

**CNN Money 8/10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Double Dip Recession”, http://money.cnn.com/2011/08/10/news/economy/double_dip_recession_economy/index.htm, 2011] SV</span>

__Another recession could be even …__ //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">no policy effort to counteract it</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Global economic crisis causes war—__…__ account for global crises properly**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the answer to the … considered ancillary to those views.</span>



====UQ Wall==== 



**Payroll Tax Cuts will pass:**

**1. Obama pushing**

**WSJ 11/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“White House to Push to Extend Payroll Tax Cut”, http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2011/11/10/white-house-to-push-to-extend-payroll-tax-cut/, 2011] SV</span>

__The White House is gearing …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joe Biden and Cabinet secretaries. </span>



**2. GOP will give in**

**Aravosis 11/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John Aravosis, Foreign policy adviser for several Senators and Freelance Writer, “White House May Force Payroll Tax Cut”, http://www.americablog.com/2011/11/white-house-may-force-payroll-tax-cut.html, 2011] SV</span>

__With the payroll tax cut …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">going to do it once. </span>



**3. The cost of inaction to GOP outweighs**

**Huffington Post 11/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“On Payroll Tax Cut, Obama Administration Plotting Year-End Showdown”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/10/payroll-tax-cut-obama-administration-year-end-showdown_n_1086761.html, 2011] SV</span>

__Top officials in the Obama …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">work to make it permanent. </span>



**4. Internal White House confidence indicates no GOP backlash**

**Fiscal Times 11/16** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Obama’s Aggressive Fiscal Offense: Will It Pay Off?”, [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2011/11/16/Obamas-Aggressive-Fiscal-Offense-Will-It-Pay-Off.aspx#page1|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2011/11/16/Obamas-Aggressive-Fiscal-Offense-Will-It-Pay-Off.aspx#page1]], 2011] SV</span>

__In a few cases,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> though, </span>__Republicans …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">can do at this point. </span>



**5. CBO**

**Boston Herald 11/17** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kathleen Hennessey and Lisa Mascar, Parts of Obama’s jobs plan win bipartisan approval, [[http://news.bostonherald.com/news/us_politics/view/20111117parts_of_obamas_jobs_plan_win_bipartisan_approval/srvc=home&position=recent]], 2011] SV</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The cost, small by Washington … jolt, according to the report. </span>



**--EXTRA--**

**6. Occupy Wall Street creates momentum**

**Youngman 11/10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sam Youngman, Correspondent for The Hill, White House thinks Obama has regained 'upper hand' with GOP on economy http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/192973-white-house-thinks-obama-has-regained-upper-hand-with-gop]</span>

__The White House officials blasted …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cabinet secretaries, one official said. </span>



**7. Election year politics**

**Wiesenthal 11/11/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joe Wiesenthal, Journalist – Business Insider, The Most Important Question In Washington: Is A Massive Tax Hike Just A Few Weeks Away?http://www.businessinsider.com/the-debate-over-the-payroll-tax-extension-2011-11]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There's been a lot of discussion … </span>**__voters in an election year.__**





====Econ Solvency==== 



**1. Solves the economy—prefer economic models**

**EVANS 11/14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kelly Evans, WSJ Economics Reporter, Wall Street Journal, “Payroll-Tax Cuts Trump the Supercommittee”, 11/14/2011, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203537304577032492329784870.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Word to the wise: </span>__Don't … 3%, the risk of recession remains__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



**2. Solves consumer spending – solidifies the market**

**Jacobson 11/9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bob Jacobson, Communications manager, Wisconsin Council on Children and Families. Central Wisconsin Business. Important benefits set to expire soon unless extended http://www.wausaudailyherald.com/article/20111109/CWS03/311090068/Column-Important-benefits-set-expire-soon-unless-extended]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the last three years, … 2010, according to the Census Bureau.</span>



<span class="Underline">**3. Has a multiplier effect on economic growth**</span>

<span class="Underline">**MARR & HIGHSMITH 9/7** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chuck Marr, Director of Federal Tax Policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities 2. joined the Center’s Federal Fiscal Policy division in January 2011 as a research assistant. Prior to joining the Center, Highsmith had interned at the National Economic Council and House Budget Committee, Brian Highsmith; Letting Payroll Tax Cut Expire Would Shrink Worker Paychecks and Damage Weak Economy, [[http://www.cbpp.org/cms/?fa=view&id=3572]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The rationale for enacting the temporary payroll tax …as part of a larger set of economic measures. </span>



**4. creates millions of jobs**

**MULLIGAN 9/14** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Casey B. Mulligan, economics professor at the University of Chicago, NY Times. How Payroll Tax Cuts Can Create Jobs. http://economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/14/how-payroll-tax-cuts-can-create-jobs/]</span>

__The real job-creating potential__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the …</span> __the cut expires.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">But still </span>__that’s a lot of jobs.__



**5. That saves the economy – quotes Krugman – he’s won awards for knowing more about the economy than Adam Smith**

**WRAY 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD, Prof of Economics @ UMKC, Senior Research Scholar @ Levy Economics Institute</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[L. Randall Wray, “When all else has failed, why not try job creation” http://neweconomicperspectives.blogspot.com/2009/11/when-all-else-has-failed-why-not-try.html]</span>

__The US continues to hemorrhage jobs__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> __onto a sustainable path to recovery.__





====AT—Thumpers/Not top of Docket==== 



**2. Payroll Tax Cut is the top of the docket—Obama isn’t pushing anything else that matters**

**LEE 11/10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Carol Lee, WSJ Staff, White House to Push to Extend Payroll Tax Cut, Wall Street Journal. http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2011/11/10/white-house-to-push-to-extend-payroll-tax-cut/]</span>

__The White House is gearing … to pass the payroll tax.__



**3. Obama is Focused on jobs**

**Werner 10-25**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Erica, Associated Press, For Obama, new focus on the piecemeal; [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5ef]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The White House counters that … </span>__of families across this country__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>



**4. Only priorities like the plan & his top issues cost capital – the rest is posturing**

**DRUM 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kevin Drum, Political Blogger, Commentator – Mother Jones, Political Blogger, Mother Jones, [[http://motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2010/03/immigration-coming-back-burner]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not to pick on Ezra … . But they will be soon. </span>



**5. Will come up in coming weeks**

**ROLL CALL 11 – 8 – 11**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roll Call Staff. Democrats: Tax on Rich In Play. http://www.rollcall.com/issues/57_55/Democrats_Tax_on_Rich_In_Play-210104-1.html?pos=hbtxt)</span>



__Senate Democrats appear to …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">House Democratic aides said Monday. </span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Spending</span>== 
===Supercommittee=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Super-committee fill succeed now – setbacks are Temporary</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">WSJM 10/28, “Upton Says Super Committee Is Making Progress”, [[http://www.wsjm.com/Upton-Says-Super-Committee-Is-Making-Progress/11327460]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Congressman Fred Upton says that … would have on federal operations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">They tank compromise – sacred cows are a redline</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Indy Star 9/14,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">http://www.indystar.com/article/20110914/NEWS05/109140331/Deficit-cutting-supercommittee-has-its-work-cut-out-it</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Digging in for a bruising … shape up as a tougher sell.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">That tanks global hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Maginus 10/20, Robert Maginus, retired Army lieutentant colonel, national security and foreign affairs analyst, 10/20/11, “‘Catastrophic’ Defense Cuts Seen as the Tipping Point of U.S. Military Supremacy”, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=46986</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">National security leaders warn that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">… the world’s leading military power.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 11 (The Price of Power The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs Jan 24, 2011, Vol. 16, No. 18 • By ROBERT KAGAN Robert Kagan is a contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Today the international situation is … </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">table will not fall over.</span>** </span>

====2NC Overview==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sequestration cuts to defense tank global hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Maginus 10/20, Robert Maginus, retired Army lieutentant colonel, national security and foreign affairs analyst, 10/20/11, “‘Catastrophic’ Defense Cuts Seen as the Tipping Point of U.S. Military Supremacy”, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=46986</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">National security leaders warn that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">… the world’s leading military power.</span>

====UQ Wall==== 
**Supercommitee will succeed:**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bipartisanship</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">CSM 10/26, “Deficit-cutting 'super committee': Can it come up with a plan in time?”, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2011/1026/Deficit-cutting-super-committee-Can-it-come-up-with-a-plan-in-time]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Meanwhile, according to several press … ,” The Washington Post reported Wednesday.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Momentum</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Washington Post 10/27, “’Supercommittee’ showing signs of life”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/cbo-agency-budgets-at-lowest-levels-since-2002/2011/10/26/gIQAk8ZyIM_story_1.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Still, support for a bigger deal … ,” including revenue, or higher taxes.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Vote Counts</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Seligman 10/26, Lara, staff writer for national journal, “Toomey: Super Committee Making Progress, but 'Not There Yet'”, [[http://www.nationaljournal.com/congress/toomey-super-committee-making-progress-but-not-there-yet--20111026]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">With the super committee’s deadline … going on virtually every day</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.” </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Politics Pressure</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">CNN 10/25, “Still 'plenty of time' for a deal, 'super committee' co-chair says”, [[http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2011/10/25/still-plenty-of-time-for-a-deal-super-committee-co-chair-says/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Washington (CNN) - </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">With the deadline … deadline to release its recommendations.</span>


====AT: Thumpers==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hold all of their link UQ to a very high threshold--issues don’t cost PC until they’re at the finish line</span>
Drum, 10 <span style="color: black;"> (Kevin, Political Blogger, Mother Jones, http://motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2010/03/immigration-coming-back-burner)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Not to pick on Ezra … . But they will be soon.</span>
====2NC Link Wall==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">New spending makes agreement impossible—empirics</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">McCarthy and Harder 10/11 (Meghan, Staff Writer, Health Policy, covers health policy throughout Washington for National Journal, worked at Congressional Quarterly, where she covered the House of Representatives and contributed to CQ Healthbeat; and Amy, Energy and Environment Correspondent, reports on energy and the environment for National Journal and moderates an expert blog on the topic as well, was a staff writer for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, “Energy and Commerce Dems Go Left on Super Committee Recommendations” Proquest)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Many of the recommendations will … a price on climate-change pollution.</span>
==Weaponization== 
===1NC=== 

**__Uniqueness-__Obama is pursuing space … is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the … </span>must keep space for peace.

<span class="Underline">**AND- Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a … cooperation would be more likely.</span>


**Impact- WW3**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Noam Chomsky, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, International Socialist Review, Issue 19, July-August</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 2001, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.isreview.org/issues/19/NoamChomsky.shtml]], ACC: 8.20.05, p. online</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The answer is, as I said, </span>full-… into<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the First </span>World War<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2NC Overview</span>=== 

**a. Turns the case- Weaponization increases space debris-precludes space exploration and use**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Primack 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Joel September 2004, “Pelted by Paint, Drowned by Debris”, Bulletin of Atomic Sciences, September 2004, http://www.thebulletin.org/issues/2002/so02/so02primack.html)</span>
<span style="background-color: lime;">Weaponization of space would make … the possibility of space exploration</span>.

**Limited warfare and escalation control don’t apply in space**
**Krepon, 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Henry … /uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The inherent escalatory potential of … </span>__than in dominance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and compellance.</span>

**a. Even if nuclear war is more destructive – taboo and deterrence prevents the risk. Only space weapons will be utilized in a conflict**
**Shixiu** **7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bao, senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA of China, visiting scholar at the Virginia Military Institute//,// “Deterrence Revisited: Outer Space,” China Security, Winter, 2007, p2-11, [[http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_1.pdf]]]</span>

__Space weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and their use </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of a “deterrent capability” in space.</span>

==Debris== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Space debris is at a tipping point—aff increases it exponentially</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DUNCAN 6-3-2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(ROWE GRAHAM: a freelance science and technology journalist:Junk in space; Our world is surrounded by debris - and doing nothing is not an option: http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/lnacui2api/results /docview /docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T12363130625&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T12363128982&cisb=22_T12363130627&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=10939&docNo=1)</span>
The curvature of the Earth, … __where we can't do anything."__

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Turns case</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jeremy 10</span>(8-25-10: Keep space tidy: the space debris problem: http://makewealthhistory.org /2010/08/25/keep-space-tidy-the-space-debris-problem/)
Having written about the Atlantic … to the earth rather well.
==Tradeoff DA== 
===JWST=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
**JWST was funded but it’s on the chopping block**
**Franzen 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl, Writer @ TPM, " Senate Appropriators Spare James Webb Space Telescope From The Chopping Block, For Now," Sept 16th, http://idealab.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/09/senate-appropriators-spare-james-webb-space-telescope-from-the-chopping-block-for-now.php) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The James </span>__Webb__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Space </span>__Telescope__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -… </span>__will play out in Congress.”__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Webb is key to science diplomacy</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Borowitz 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [July, 2011, Mariel John Borowitz, Research Analyst at the Space Foundation, the Space Foundation has become one of the world's premier nonprofit organizations supporting space activities, “The James Webb Space Telescope A Worthy Investment in Space Science,” [[http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2011/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf]]]</span>
<span class="Underline">JWST is being developed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in … </span>joint endeavors <span class="Underline">much more </span>problematic.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">That solves extinction and your impacts</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sackett 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07), “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Do these 7 billion people have … </span>such as trade and security<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====2NC Overview==== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">3. Prefer Disad framing—the probability of a global problem occurring which requires science diplomacy is more likely than their one shot advantage</span>**</span>
**Yudkowsky 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence—a non–profit research institute dedicated to increasing the likelihood of, and decreasing the time to, a maximally beneficial singularity, one of the world’s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment Of Global Risks,” Draft of a chapter in Global Catastrophic Risks, edited by Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, August 31st, 2006, Available Online at http://singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">According to probability theory, adding … or implausibly detailed risk scenarios.</span>

====Uniqueness==== 
**And, its adequately funded**
**NASA 1/9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“NASA's James Webb Space Telescope: A Year of Achievement and Success”, [[http://www.nasa.gov/topics/technology/features/webb-2011progress.html]], 2012] SV</span>
__The James Webb Space Telescope …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">commands and science data delivery.</span>

====Links==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NASA’s funds are a zero sum game </span>
Chameides 9<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bill, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of the Environment, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD, Yale University, MS, Yale University, BA, SUNY Binghamtom, “Is NASA Spacing Out?” http://www.nicholas.duke.edu/thegreengrok/moonwalk]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now there’s a plan afoot to … </span><span class="Underline">bacon without all the hoopla</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**This is especially true for JWST**
**AstroBetter 9/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ["Call to Action to Save JWST," 2011, http://www.astrobetter.com/call-to-action-to-save-jwst/]</span>
__When JWST is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> launched, and … </span>__lose WFIRST science as well__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**JWST will be the first to get cut**
**1. big science politics**
**Weinberg 1/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Space News quoting Steven Weinberg, Renown Theoretical Physicist, “Physicist Sees Dim Future for ‘Big Science’ Funding [Space Politics]”, [[http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/120111-fromwires-dim-future-big-science.html]], 2012] SV</span>
__Nobel laureate Steven Weinberg said … and more expensive__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he said. </span>

**2. tight budgets**
**IBTimes 12/20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [International Business Times, “Recession Takes Its Toll on NASA As It Faces More Budget Cuts”, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/269763/20111220/recession-takes-toll-nasa-faces-budget-cuts.htm]], 2011] SV</span>
__The budget cut will bite …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">crew capsule, MPCV, got $1.2 billion.</span>

**3. ballooning prices**
**Beatty 12/20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Kelly Beatty, S&T's Senior Contributing Editor, science faculty at the Dexter and Southfield Schools in Brookline, Massachusetts, honored twice by the Division for Planetary Sciences (DPS) of the American Astronomical Society, received the Harold Masursky Award for meritorious service, honored with the inaugural Jonathan Eberhart Journalism Award, recipient of the prestigious Astronomical League Award, Bachelors degree in geology from the California Institute of Technology and Master's degree in science journalism from Boston University, “NASA Taps a Rocket Scientist”, [[http://www.skyandtelescope.com/about/generalinfo/3305166.html]], 2011] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I'm guessing that Job One … </span>__measures for JWST’s continuing development."__

=====2NC Earth Science Link===== 
**Funding for Earth Science and JWST is zero sum**
**Foust 9/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeff, Writer @ the space review, " Space science caught in a Webb," 2011, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1926/1) </span>
__Support for Webb has not … across the NASA science portfolio.”__


====Impact Modules==== 

=====EU-US Coop===== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Science Diplomacy is key to EU-US science cooperation—solves disease, environment and every major war</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Leshner & Turekian 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [February 2009, Alan I. Leshner and Vaughan Turekian, *executive publisher of the journal Science, the chief executive officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science AND **director of its Center for Science Diplomacy, chief international officer at AAAS, Editorial, “Europe and the United States: A Crucial Moment for Science Cooperation,” http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/jrc/downloads/jrc_newsletter_2009_02.pdf]** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, however, </span><span class="Underline">a new moment of … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">of people on every continent. </span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Disease will cause extinction</span>
Yu 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Victoria Yu, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” May 22, 2009, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate] </span>**
**A pandemic will kill off … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">birds — into a human-viable strain (10). </span>**

And Warming
Morgan 9 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect, Note: We do not endorse of the word Holocaust as an analogy to the Nazi Genocide of the Jewish Race but rather its actual definition: “a great or complete devastation or destruction, especially by fire.” Dictionary.com]</span>**
**__As horrifying as the scenario …__** __against our chances of survival**?**__

So does Biodiversity loss
Coyne and Hoekstra 7 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[*professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago AND </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University (Jerry and Hopi, The</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">New Republic, “The Greatest Dying,” 9/24, [[http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatestdying]])]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aside from the Great Dying, … </span>__greatest dying of them all.__

**And Ozone Depletion**
**Greenpeace 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer -- A Greenpeace Report with contributions from Ozone Action, http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and … </span>**__continuation of life on earth.__**



=====Religion===== 

**Discovering dark matter confirms the big bang theory**
**Wilford 94** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(11/29/1994, John, award-winning journalist for The New York Times, writes science journalism, “Astronomy Crisis Deepens As the Hubble Telescope Sees No Missing Mass”, NYT, http://www.nytimes.com/1994/11/29/science/astronomy-crisis-deepens-as-the-hubble-telescope-sees-no-missing-mass.html?pagewanted=all&src=pm)</span>

__This line of investigation could …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">mass for such a radical transformation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">That solves religious conflict which guarantees extinction</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Harris 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Sam, PhD in neuroscience from UCLA, philosophy degree from Stanford University, co-founder and CEO of Project Reason, and prolific author 2006, “Science Must Destroy Religion,” The Huffington Post, January 2nd, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sam-harris/science-must-destroy-reli_b_13153.html, Note: We do not endorse the gendered language]</span>
<span class="Underline">Most people believe that the … dangerous fractures in our world. </span>

=====Colonization===== 
**JWST is key to Colonization**
**Harrold 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, staff writer for the Gazette, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's … </span>__said it's okay to look."__

=====STEM===== 
**Astronomical discoveries can spur national interest in STEM – that’s key to long term growth and competitiveness**
**Elmegreen 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [March 11, 2011, Dr. Debra Elmegreen, President of the American Astronomical Society and is the Maria Mitchell Professor of Astronomy and Department Chair in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Vassar, “Testimony of Dr. Debra M. Elmegreen President of the American Astronomical Society Before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies On Astronomy and Astrophysics in the FY 2012 Budget,” http://blog.aas.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/AAS-Testimony-to-Congress.pdf]</span>
__The excitement of scientific discovery …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">enrolled in astronomy courses annually.</span>

=====CTBT===== 

**JWST is key to CTBT enforcement which solves prolif**
**Bahcall et. al. 01** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(3/16/01, John, PhD in Physics from Harvard University, School of Natural Sciences, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton American astrophysicist, best known for his contributions to the solar neutrino problem, the development of the Hubble Space Telescope and for his leadership and development of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, “Underground Science,” DUSEL Laboratory, http://www.int.washington.edu/DUSEL/SupplementaryInfo.pdf)</span>

__The field of underground particle … **nuclear proliferation around the world.**__


**Extinction**
**Cirincione 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joe, Pres. Ploughshares Fund and Senior Fellow and Dir. Nuclear Policy – Center for American Progress, National Interest, “Symposium: Apocalypse When?” November/December, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let me be clear: </span>__Nuclear proliferation ...__ __a return to the 1950s nuclear free-for-all__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Earth Science=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

<span class="Heading2Char">NASA’s budget levels will demand difficult choices, but the Administration is committed to Earth science programs.</span>
<span class="Heading2Char">Holdren 11 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director office of Science and Tech policy (John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/jph-house-sst-testimony-2-17-11.pdf, 2-17)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">National Aeronautics and Space Administration (… the operations of the ISS. </span>

**NASA has cut its space programs and has a flat budget for the next 5 years. That means any new space policy comes at the expense of Earth Science.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space Travel.com 6/8/11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">( NASA Spending Shift to Benefit Centers Focused on <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.space-travel.com/reports/NASA_Spending_Shift_to_Benefit_Centers_Focused_on_Science_and_Technology_999.html|Science]]</span> and Technology NASA Spending Shift to Benefit Centers Focused on Science and Technology)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">According to the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">report "NASA … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">about 50% of all NASA spending.</span>

**Earth science is critical to US climate leadership and building a global response to climate change**
**Lewis, Ladislaw, and Zheng 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- James A. Lewis, senior fellow and director of the Technology and Public Policy Program at CSIS, worked in the federal government as a Foreign Service officer; Sarah O. Ladislaw, senior fellow in the Energy and National Security Program at CSIS, where she concentrates on climate change, the geopolitical implications of energy production and use, energy security, energy technology, and sustainable development; Denise E. Zheng, program coordinator and research assistant in the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, June 2010, “Earth Observation for Climate Change”, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span> </span>

__Better climate information has helped …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">space policy in a new direction. </span>

**Warming leads to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The best estimates for global … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">social, cultural and political </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">changes</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__
====2NC Overview==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cuts to earth science kill competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">House Committee SSTD 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Science, Space, and Tech Democrats, 2011, http://democrats.science.house.gov/committee-report/committee-report-title) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The budget resolution that these … people and our environment healthy.</span>

====AT: Nonunique==== 
<span class="Underline">**NASA’s science program will continue, but there is strong pressure to stay within the budgets**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Space Daily 7-20-11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “ FY12 House Funding Bill for NASA” <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/FY12_House_Funding_Bill_for_NASA_999.html]]</span> NEH) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On July 13, </span><span class="Underline">the House passed a … exploration could be very dim. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Earth Science will maintain dominance in funding now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Motl 7-27-11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Luboš PHd of Philosophy from Rutgers University and has been a Harvard Junior Fellow (2001–2004) and assistant professor (2004–2007) at Harvard University “ NASA: astrophysics vs Earth science budget” The Reference Frame, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://motls.blogspot.com/2011/07/nasa-astrophysics-vs-earth-science.html]]</span> NEH) </span>
<span class="Underline">NASA </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">stands for "The National … </span><span class="Underline">$1.7 billion, preserving its dominant position. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Increase in earth science programs**</span>
**[[http://pubs.acs.org/cen/staff/biosm.html|Morrissey]] 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - PHD in Chemistry (Susan R., “NASA: Funding Is Flat, But Earth Science Programs Grow”, 02/28/11http://pubs.acs.org/cen/coverstory/89/8909cover7.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__President’s 2012 request__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> holds the </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">will go into other programs.</span>

**Budget re-allocation to Earth Science Now.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space Travel.com 6/8/11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> NASA Spending Shift to Benefit Centers Focused on Science and Technology http://www.space-travel.com/reports/NASA_Spending_Shift_to_Benefit_Centers_Focused_on_Science_and_Technology_999.html</span>
<span class="Underline">"Budget allocation across Centers … will be redistributed among centers."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Earth science funding is appropriated</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Connell 6/2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kathleen, CEO @ Mission to Humanity, San Diego State UniversityGreen Energy Program</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The current five-year government … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">of years, one official said</span></span>

====AT: No Tradeoff==== 
NASA’s funds are a zero sum game
Chameides 09<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of the Environment, PhD, Yale University, MS, Yale University, BA, SUNY Binghamton [Bill, “Is NASA Spacing Out?” http://www.nicholas.duke.edu/thegreengrok/moonwalk]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now there’s a plan afoot to … </span><span class="Underline">bacon without all the hoopla</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Empirically, NASA will cut funding from existing programs to pay for new projects**
**Stern 8 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Astrophysicist and planetary scientist (Alan - an astrophysicist and planetary scientist, was an associate administrator in charge of the NASA Science Mission Directorate from 2007 to 2008, “NASA’s Black Hole Budgets,” November 27, The New York Times, Lexis)</span>
__Endemic project cost increases at …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mars Science Laboratory's spiraling cost.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASAs budget is allocated – funding comes from internal trade-offs</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Moskowitz 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Clara, writer @ space.com, 2/14/11, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/41582976/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/white-house-freezes-nasas-budget-level/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Obama administration</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> has </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">announced … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">it has to make sense."</span>

====AT: Cant solve Warming==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Earth Science can solve global warming: Empirics prove Earth science helped inspire Ozone policy in the past and it’s key to creating new technologies now</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Killeen 5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Phd. , Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]]</span>) NAR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is clear after decades … </span><span class="Underline">ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses.</span>
===DoD=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

a. New spending on space cuts military funding
Everett Dolman, Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies at the Air University, March 7, 2011, Towards a Theory of Space Power, Ed. Lutes et all, AO: http://www.ndu.edu/press/spacepower.html

A follow-on argument is … of the Department of Defense.

b. Cuts collapse nuclear deterrence
Human Events Online, October 19, 2011
'Catastrophic' Defense Cuts Seen as Tipping Point of U.S. Military Supremacy
That impact, according to an … the world's leading military power.
c. Nuclear Deterrents checks every conflict
Lieber & Press 9 [The Nukes We Need. By: Lieber, Keir A., Press, Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program, Foreign Affairs, 00157120, Nov/Dec2009, Vol. 88, Issue 6] SV
The primary purpose of U.S. nuclear … -fire and remain in power.
====2NC Overview==== 

Even if they don’t tradeoff they cause delays and water down both programs—turns the case
Chaplain 9
(Cristina T. Chaplain, Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management, GAO, "Space Acquisitions: DOD Faces Substantial Challenges in Developing New Space Systems", 5/20/09, www.gao.gov/products/GAO-09-705T//avi)
Despite a growing investment in space, … has begun will take hold.


Shift to security paradigm makes modernization efforts more salient – guarantees conflict
Wirtz 2009, James J. Wirtz, dean of the School of International Graduate Studies and professor in the Dept. of National Security Affairs @ Naval Postgraduate School, 2009, Complex Deterrence: Strategy in the Global Age, Ed. T.V. Paul, Patrick M Morgan, and James J. Wirtz, p. 327-28
The generally benign atmosphere …war among the great powers.

====AT-Cuts Now==== 

Additional cuts kill readiness
States News Service, October 19, 2011, HARTZLER CALLS ON "SUPERCOMMITTEE" TO AVOID FURTHER NATIONAL DEFENSE CUTS


The following information was released … our fighting force. This is the wrong approach.

Status quo cuts have not undermined readiness

Politico, 10-23, 11, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1011/66659.html (Rep. Bill Young (R-Fla.) is chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.)

We have done our homework … our military and their families.
==<span class="Underline">India Relations DA</span>== 
===1NC Shell=== 
<span class="StyleBold1">a. US India relations on the Brink</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Deccan Herald</span> 6/21/11 *Newspaper, Online Issue [… said in response to a question.

<span class="StyleBold1">b. Plan kills relations</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rendleman and Faulconer 10</span> *James D. Rendleman … <span class="StyleUnderline">government and its space community.</span>

<span class="StyleBold1">c. Relations Prevent Indo Pak War</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dugger 02</span>, (Celia W., journalist, “Wider Military Ties with India Offer U.S. Diplomatic Leverage,” THE NEW YORK TIMES, June 10, 2002, p. A1, LN)
<span class="Underline">Military </span>cooperation between India and … in New Delhi in February.
**d. Extinction**
**GSN 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]</span>
Computer modeling suggests a nuclear exchange … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">University of Colorado at Boulder.</span>



===AT-Relations Low=== 
<span class="StyleBold1">The norm is consultation</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Chavan* and Tellis **2010**</span> **- *Member of Indian parliament, Minister of State for Science &**
**Technology and Earth Sciences & Vice President of CSIR,** senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues. Former Department of State senior adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs. Former senior policy analyst at the RAND corporation
Ashley Tellis and Shri Prithviraj Chavan June 23, 2010 “Prospects and Challenges for U.S.–India Technology Cooperation” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/events/?fa=eventDetail&id=2946
Space: Building on its first … , such as remote-sensing technology<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="StyleBold1">US-India joint cooperation on space now</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The White House Office of Press Secretary</span> November 8, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2010</span> Fact Sheet on U.S. - India Space Cooperation http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=3&ved=0CC8QFjAC&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.whitehouse.gov%2Fsites%2Fdefault%2Ffiles%2FFact_Sheet_on_U.S-India_Space_Cooperation.docx&rct=j&q=US-India%20space%20&ei=ian_TeHPCJCWswaunOXwDQ&usg=AFQjCNF55iRGO0CPpVaeqzHiDJLyw93www&sig2=pF9m6AIa39V9DgwpGJoRJA&cad=rja
President Obama and Prime Minister … <span class="Underline">Group on Earth Observations (GEO). </span>