[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Countries building counter space weapons now</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFP</span></span>, WASHINGTON, 2/06/20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span></span>, “US worried by PRC’s space hostility,” http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2011/02/06/2003495233</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DebateUnderline">China is developing “counterspace” weapons that could shoot down satellites or jam signals</span>, a Pentagon official said on Friday as the US unveiled a 10-year strategy for security in space. “<span class="DebateUnderline">The investment China is putting into counterspace capabilities is a matter of concern to us,”</span> US Deputy Secretary of Defense for Space Policy Gregory Schulte told reporters as the defense and intelligence communities released their 10-year National Security Space Strategy (NSSS). The NSSS marks a huge shift from past practice, charting a 10-year path in space to make the US “more resilient” and able to defend its assets in a dramatically more crowded, competitive, challenging and sometimes hostile environment, Schulte said. “<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Space is no longer the preserve of the US and the Soviet Union, </span>at the time in which we could operate with impunity,” Schulte said.</span> “<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">There are more competitors, more countries that are launching satellites </span>... and we increasingly have to worry about countries developing counterspace capabilities </span>that can be used against the peaceful use of space,” he said. “<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">China is at the forefront of the development</span></span> of those capabilities,” he said. US concerns over China’s space activities have led US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to seek to include space in the stability dialogue with the Chinese, Schulte said. In 2007, <span class="DebateUnderline">Beijing shot down one of its own</span> weather <span class="DebateUnderline">satellites</span> using a medium-range ground missile, <span class="DebateUnderline">sparking </span>international <span class="DebateUnderline">concern</span> not only <span class="DebateUnderline">about how China was “weaponizing” space</span>, but also about debris from the satellite. Years later, Chinese space junk is still floating around in space. Last year, debris from the satellite passed so close to the International Space Station that crewmembers had to change orbit and take cover. Shooting down the satellite not only focused the world’s attention on the amount of junk in space, but also on Chinese counterspace capabilities, which go beyond shooting down spacecraft, Schulte said. Among other counterspace activities, <span class="DebateUnderline">Beijing has jammed satellite signals and is developing directed energy weapons</span>, which emit energy toward a target without firing a projectile, he said. And <span class="DebateUnderline">China isn’t the only country flexing its counterspace muscle. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Iran and Ethiopia are</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">, too</span>, he said. “They’ve jammed commercial satellites ... <span class="DebateUnderline">If Ethiopia can jam a commercial satellite, you have to worry about what others can do against our military satellites</span>,” he said. “Fifteen years ago we didn’t have to worry about that, but now we have to think differently, to think about how we can continue to conduct the critical functions that are performed from space, or, if they’re degraded, we have to have alternative solutions,” Schulte said. The 10-year strategy document proposes ways to protect US space assets, including by setting up international partnerships along the lines of NATO, under which an attack on one member would be an attack on all, drawing a unified response from members of the alliance. The US also “retains the option to respond in self-defense to attacks in space, and the response may not be in space, either,” Schulte said.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">The United States has no Space-based BMD now</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Baker <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spring</span></span> April 12 <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">The Heritage Foundation, The Cutting Edge </span></span>http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=12104</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Second, the BMDRR acknowledges that ballistic missile defense's essential roles are bolstering deterrence, maintaining the policy of extending deterrence to U.S. allies, and reassuring U.S. allies about the threats that they face. This is a welcome departure from the Cold War assertion that missile defenses are destabilizing and incompatible with deterrence. Finally, the report indicates that <span class="DebateUnderline">the Administration accepts in principle the wisdom of pursuing options</span> with both China and <span class="DebateUnderline">Russia to establish more defensive strategic postures</span> by helping both to "better understand the stabilizing benefits of missile defense." On the negative side of the ledger, the BMDRR's policy prescriptions include steps that contradict or undermine the positive elements. First, it states that <span class="DebateUnderline">missile defenses to protect the U.S. homeland are being limited</span>, at least relative to regional defenses. This is to preserve, at least for the near term, the policy of mutual vulnerability toward both China and Russia. <span class="DebateUnderline">Continuing this policy of vulnerability toward China and Russia undermines to a considerable degree the recognition that missile defenses play positive roles in extended deterrence and reassurance to U.S. allies</span>. The report apparently assumes that the defense of U.S. allies against regional missile threats is sufficient and that direct threats against the U.S. will not weaken the security links to U.S. allies. However, direct threats to the U.S. will weaken these links. Second<span class="DebateUnderline">, the missile defense policy recommended in the BMDRR displays a bias in development policy toward near-term capabilities at the expense of forward-looking technological developments. For example, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">no statement in the policy shows that the Administration understands that the most effective defense against ballistic missiles for both the U.S. and its allies is a network of space-based interceptors.</span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Thus, the plan: The United States Federal Government should deploy a substantial space-based Brilliant Pebbles program.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Contention 2 is Hegemony</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Scenario 1: Space Leadership</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Space weaponization and conflict is inevitable - winning the race for dominance is key to US hegemony</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kitfield 10</span></span>-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">In the “commons” <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">above Earth, US military forces must deal with</span> </span>junk and<span class="DebateUnderline"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">potential predators</span></span>. Last year, an Iridium communications satellite unexpectedly went dead. US military space analysts soon discovered it had smashed into a defunct Russian Cosmos satellite, a collision that destroyed both spacecraft and created a large and dangerous debris field in space. That incident followed another worrisome event. In January <span class="DebateUnderline">2007, China successfully tested an anti-satellite missile</span> against one of its own defunct satellites. That attack, a direct hit, created 150,000 pieces of space clutter—not all of it even visible to US space operators. Both events reveal that <span class="DebateUnderline">the global commons of <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">space</span></span>—which the United States has long dominated and has increasingly used as leverage to achieve a decisive military edge—<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">is increasingly crowded and contested.</span> There have been</span> years of <span class="DebateUnderline">warnings that US space dominance is in peril</span>. It is now safe to assume that<span class="DebateUnderline">, in a future war, the military will not have unhindered access to the space-based capabilities that create numerous US combat advantages</span>. Potential adversaries aren’t just aware of how heavily the US relies on space. They already have the means to compete and to challenge US operations there. Today, many <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">commanders view space dominance as vital to warfare</span></span> in the Information Age. "Certainly in the air world, in the ISR [intelligence-surveillance-reconnaissance] world, and most especially <span class="DebateUnderline">in the space world, [there is] competition out there, [and the] competition is getting better</span>," said Lt. Gen. Larry D. James, commander of 14th Air Force at Vandenberg AFB, Calif. <span class="DebateUnderline">"Multiple nation-states</span> now <span class="DebateUnderline">have</span> space <span class="DebateUnderline">launch capability</span>, have <span class="DebateUnderline">ISR capability, [and]</span> have <span class="DebateUnderline">intelligence capability from space, so we’ve got to continue to raise our game to make sure we are still the best." </span>As a recent report by the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) noted<span class="DebateUnderline">, it is increasingly clear that a military able to effectively use space has tremendous advantages through rapid globe-spanning communications, broad and sophisticated surveillance and intelligence-gathering capability, and accurate force positioning, operations timing, and precision targeting abilities.</span> "Put in military terms, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the space commons offers distinct and significant advantages in command, control, communications, intelligence, surveillance</span>, and reconnaissance</span> (C3ISR), maneuverability, and firepower," noted report author Eric Sterner. "<span class="DebateUnderline">As the United States has been the world’s leading innovator in the use of space for military purposes, this development is largely a story of American innovation." <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Given the </span>game-changing <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">advantages that the United States reaps from its dominance of space, it was inevitable that other countries would also seek to exploit space for their own uses, both military and commercial.</span></span> Today, nine countries, plus the European Space Agency member states, have the ability to independently place satellites into orbit, and virtually any country or nonstate actor can access satellite technology by buying time on commercial satellites. As the US military’s dependence on space systems has grown exponentially in recent years, however, so has a growing sense of unease among military commanders concerned about the vulnerability of those assets. In 2001, <span class="DebateUnderline">the Commission to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization released a report that predicted that <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">future warfare in space was a "virtual certainty," </span>and it proposed that the United States [should] begin to develop the means both to deter and defend against attacks on its space assets, and to mount offensive operations to deny the use of space to potential adversaries<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">. To do otherwise</span>,</span> the commission warned<span class="DebateUnderline">, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">would invite a "space Pearl Harbor</span></span>." US officials confirmed in 2006 that <span class="DebateUnderline">China had successfully "painted" a US satellite with a laser.</span> China’s January 2007 test of the direct-ascent, anti-satellite SC-19 missile greatly heightened those concerns. And a recent Pentagon report on China’s military modernization revealed that <span class="DebateUnderline">China is developing</span> other <span class="DebateUnderline">anti-satellite systems</span>, to include ground-based lasers designed to blind sensitive satellite optics. China is also reportedly developing microsatellites crafted to act as "space mines," which could loiter in space until given the signal to destroy other satellites. At present, US officials say they are uncertain whether China has already launched such "parasite" satellites. "In today’s world, ... there are a lot of folks launching a lot of satellites, some of them very small," and we have a lot of work to do in terms of knowing "what their mission is, ... what the intent of the owner is," and whether they represent a threat, said James. That really gets into the intelligence world more than the tracking world, but, "frankly, we have a long way to go" in achieving that space situational awareness. According to the CNAS report, China has identified American dependence on space as an asymmetric vulnerability to exploit. "China is developing robust capabilities to operate in space and deny its adversaries the use of space during a time of crisis or conflict," the report concluded.</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Space is crucial to military effectiveness—any attack threatens conventional military power</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">(<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span></span>, Everett Dolman and Henry Cooper, Everett Dolman is Phd and Prof. Military studies at USAF SAAS, former NSA analyst where he received the Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. Henry Cooper is former DoD deputy executive and Chairman of the High Frontier think-tank and journal. This appeared in Chapter 19 of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower”, edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, ISBN <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">978-1780393858, 03-07-11, </span></span>http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Beyond Theory: Military Space Realities In 1991, U.S. forces defeated the world's fourth-largest military in just 10 days of ground combat. The Gulf War witnessed the public and operational debut of unfathomably complicated battle equipment, sleek new aircraft employing stealth technology, and promising new missile interceptors. Arthur C. <span class="DebateUnderline">Clarke went so far as to dub Operation Desert Storm the world's first space war, as none of the accomplishments of America's new-look military would have been possible without support from space. 6 Twelve years later, Operation Iraqi Freedom proved that the central role of spacepower could no longer be denied. </span>America's military had made the transition from a space-supported to a fully space-enabled force, with astonishing results. The U.S. military successfully exercised most of its current spacepower functions, including space lift, command and control, rapid battle damage assessment, meteorological support, and timing and navigation techniques such as Blue Force tracking, which significantly reduced incidences of fratricide. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The tremendous growth in reliance on space from Desert Storm to Iraqi Freedom is evident in the raw numbers</span>. The use of operational satellite communications increased four-fold, despite being used to support a much smaller force (fewer than 200,000 personnel compared with more than 500,000). <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">New operational concepts such as reach back</span> (intelligence analysts in the United States sending information directly to frontline units) <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">and reach forward</span> (rear-deployed commanders able to direct battlefield operations in real time) <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">reconfigured the tactical concept of war</span>.</span> The value of Predator and Global Hawk unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), completely reliant on satellite communications and navigation for their operation, was confirmed. Satellite support also allowed Special Forces units to range across Iraq in extremely disruptive independent operations, practically unfettered in their silent movements. But the paramount effect of space-enabled warfare was in the area of combat efficiency. Space assets allowed all-weather, day-night precision munitions to provide the bulk of America's striking power. Attacks from standoff platforms, including Vietnam-era B– 52s, allowed maximum target devastation with extraordinarily low casualty rates and collateral damage. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">In Desert Storm, only 8 percent of munitions used were precisionguided, none of which were GPS-capable. By Iraqi Freedom, nearly 70 percent were precision-guided, </span>more than half from GPS satellites. 7 In Desert Storm, fewer than 5 percent of aircraft were GPS-equipped. By Iraqi Freedom, all were. During Desert Storm, GPS proved so valuable that the Army procured and rushed into theater more than 4,500 commercial receivers to augment the meager 800 military-band ones it could deploy from stockpiles, an average of 1 per company (about 200 personnel). By Iraqi Freedom, each Army squad (6 to 10 Soldiers) had at least 1 military GPS receiver</span>.</span>


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Military dominance is entirely dependent on space assets - weaponization is key to ensure their protection</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Everett <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman</span></span>, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, September 14, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span></span> “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The United States has embarked on a </span>revolutionary military <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">transformation designed to extend its dominance in military engagements. Space capabilities are the lynchpin of this transformation, </span>enabling a level of precision,</span> stealth, command and <span class="DebateUnderline">control</span>, intelligence gathering, speed, maneuverability, <span class="DebateUnderline">flexibility</span>, and lethality heretofore unknown. This twenty-first century way of war promises to give the United States a capacity to use force to influence events around the world in a timely, effective, and sustainable manner. And this is a good thing, a true transformation from conflicts past. That the process of transformation was well underway became evident in 1991, when the world’s fourth largest military was defeated in just ten days of ground combat. Unfathomably complicated battle equipment, sleek new aircraft, and promising new missile interceptors publicly debuted. Arthur C. Clarke went so far as to dub Operation DESERT STORM (ODS) the world’s first space war, as <span class="DebateUnderline">none of the accomplishments of America’s new look military would have been possible without support from space</span>. Twelve years later, in Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), assertions as to the central role of space power could no longer be denied. <span class="DebateUnderline">America’s military had transitioned from space supported to a fully space enabled force</span>, with astonishingly positive results. Indeed, <span class="DebateUnderline">most of the nation’s current space power functions were successfully exercised in OIF</span>, including space lift, command and control, intelligence including rapid battle damage assessment, timing and navigation, and meteorological support. The tremendous growth in space reliance from OSD to OIF is evident in the raw numbers. Despite engaging with a 60 percent smaller force (fewer than 200,000 personnel v. over 500,000), <span class="DebateUnderline">satellite communications usage increased four-fold</span>, from 200 to 800 Mbps (Megabits per second) capacity. Newly possible <span class="DebateUnderline">operational concepts such as reach back</span> (intelligence analysts in the United States sending information directly to frontline units) <span class="DebateUnderline">and reach forward</span> (rear-deployed commanders able to direct battlefield operations in real time) <span class="DebateUnderline">reconfigured the tactical concept of war. The value of</span> Predator and Global Hawk Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), completely reliant on <span class="DebateUnderline">satellite communications</span> and navigation for their operation, <span class="DebateUnderline">was confirmed</span>. Special Forces units, paradoxically tethered to satellite support and yet practically unfettered in their silent movements because of them, ranged throughout Iraq in independent operations that were extremely disruptive. But <span class="DebateUnderline">the paramount effect of space-enabled warfare was in the area of combat efficiency. Space assets allowed all weather, day-night precision munitions to provide the bulk of America’s striking power. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Strikes from standoff plat</span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">f</span>__</span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">orm</span>s__, including Vietnam-Era B-52s, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">allowed maximum target devastation with extraordinarily low death and collateral devastation</span></span>. In ODS, 90 percent of munitions used were unguided. Of the ten percent that were guided, none was GPS capable. By OIF, 70 percent were precision guided, more than half of those from GPS satellites. In ODS, fewer than five percent of aircraft were GPS-equipped. By OIF, all were. During ODS, GPS proved so valuable to the army that it procured and rushed into theater over 4,500 commercial receivers to augment the meager 800 military-band ones it could deploy from stockpiles, an average of one per company (about 200 personnel). <span class="DebateUnderline">By OIF, each army squad</span> (6-10 soldiers) <span class="DebateUnderline">had at least one military GPS receiver. With such demonstrated utility and reliance, there is no question <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the US must guarantee space access if it is to be successful in future conflicts. </span>Its military has stepped well over the threshold of a new way of war. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">It is</span> simply <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">not possible to go back to</span> the violently spasmodic mode of <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">combat typical of pre-space intervention.</span> The United States is now highly discriminating in the projection of violence</span>, parsimonious in the intended breadth of its destruction. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">For the positive process of transformation to continue, </span>however, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">space weapons must enter the combat inventory of the United States.</span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">U.S. unipolar dominance is the only way to maintain international stability – withdrawal guarantees global war</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Robert </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Kagan, </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 7/19/20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">07</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html</span></span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">This is a good thing, and <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">it should</span></span> continue to <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">be a primary goal of American foreign policy to perpetuate this relatively benign international configuration of power.</span></span> The unipolar order with the United States as the predominant power is unavoidably riddled with flaws and contradictions. It inspires fears and jealousies. The United States is not immune to error, like all other nations, and because of its size and importance in the international system those errors are magnified and take on greater significance than the errors of less powerful nations. Compared to the ideal Kantian international order, in which all the world's powers would be peace–loving equals, conducting themselves wisely, prudently, and in strict obeisance to international law, <span class="DebateUnderline">the unipolar system is both dangerous and unjust<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">. Compared to any plausible alternative in the real world, however, </span>it <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">[the system]is relatively stable and less likely to produce a major war between great powers</span></span>__.__ It is also comparatively benevolent, from a liberal perspective, for it is more conducive to the principles of economic and political liberalism that Americans and many others value. __American predominance__ does not stand in the way of progress toward a better world, therefore. It __stands in__ the way of regression toward a more dangerous world. <span class="DebateUnderline">The choice is not between an American–dominated order and a world that looks like the European Union. The future international order will be shaped by those who have the power to shape it. </span>The leaders of a post–American world will not meet in Brussels but in Beijing, Moscow, and Washington. The return of great powers and great games If the world is marked by the persistence of unipolarity, it is nevertheless also being shaped by the reemergence of competitive national ambitions of the kind that have shaped human affairs from time immemorial. During the Cold War, this historical tendency of great powers to jostle with one another for status and influence as well as for wealth and power was largely suppressed by the two superpowers and their rigid bipolar order. Since the end of the Cold War<span class="DebateUnderline">, the United States has not been powerful enough</span>, and probably could never be powerful enough, <span class="DebateUnderline">to suppress by itself the normal ambitions of nations</span>. This does not mean the world has returned to multipolarity, since none of the large powers is in range of competing with the superpower for global influence. Nevertheless, several large powers are now competing for regional predominance, both with the United States and with each other. National ambition drives China's foreign policy today, and although it is tempered by prudence and the desire to appear as unthreatening as possible to the rest of the world<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">, the Chinese are powerfully motivated to return</span></span> their nation <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to</span></span> what they regard as <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">its traditional position as the preeminent power in East Asia</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span> They do not share a European, postmodern view that power is passé; hence their now two–decades–long military buildup and modernization. Like the Americans, <span class="DebateUnderline">they believe</span> power, <span class="DebateUnderline">in</span>cluding <span class="DebateUnderline">military power</span>, is a good thing to have and that it is better to have more of it than less. Perhaps more significant is the Chinese perception, also shared by Americans, that status and honor, and not just wealth and security, are important for a nation. Japan, meanwhile, which in the past could have been counted as an aspiring postmodern power –– with its pacifist constitution and low defense spending –– now appears embarked on a more traditional national course. Partly this is in reaction to the rising power of China and concerns about North Korea 's nuclear weapons. But it is also driven by Japan's own national ambition to be a leader in East Asia or at least not to play second fiddle or "little brother" to China. China and Japan are now in a competitive quest with each trying to augment its own status and power and to prevent the other 's rise to predominance, and this competition has a military and strategic as well as an economic and political component. Their competition is such that a nation like South Korea, with a long unhappy history as a pawn between the two powers, is once again worrying both about a "greater China" and about the return of Japanese nationalism. As Aaron Friedberg commented, the East Asian future looks more like Europe's past than its present. But it also looks like Asia's past. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Russian foreign policy</span></span>, too, looks more like something from the nineteenth century. It <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">is</span></span> being <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">driven by</span></span> a typical, and typically Russian, blend of national <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">resentment and ambition</span></span>. A postmodern Russia simply seeking integration into the new European order, the Russia of Andrei Kozyrev, would not be troubled by the eastward enlargement of the EU and NATO, would not insist on predominant influence over its "near abroad," and would not use its natural resources as means of gaining geopolitical leverage and enhancing Russia 's international status in an attempt to regain the lost glories of the Soviet empire and Peter the Great. But Russia, like China and Japan, is moved by more traditional great–power considerations, including the pursuit of those valuable if intangible national interests: honor and respect. Although Russian leaders complain about threats to their security from NATO and the United States, the Russian sense of insecurity has more to do with resentment and national identity than with plausible external military threats. 16 Russia's complaint today is not with this or that weapons system. <span class="DebateUnderline">It is the entire post–Cold War settlement of the 1990s that Russia resents </span>and wants to revise. But that does not make insecurity less a factor in Russia 's relations with the world; indeed, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">it makes finding compromise with the Russians all the more difficult</span>.</span> One could add others to this list of great powers with traditional rather than postmodern aspirations. India 's regional ambitions are more muted, or are focused most intently on Pakistan, but it is clearly engaged in competition with China for dominance in the Indian Ocean and sees itself, correctly, as an emerging great power on the world scene. <span class="DebateUnderline">In the Middle East there is Iran, which mingles religious fervor with a historical sense of superiority and leadership in its region. 17 Its nuclear program is</span> as much <span class="DebateUnderline">about the desire for</span> regional <span class="DebateUnderline">hegemony</span> as about defending Iranian territory from attack by the United States. Even the European Union, in its way, expresses a pan–European national ambition to play a significant role in the world, and it has become the vehicle for channeling German, French, and British ambitions in what Europeans regard as a safe supranational direction. Europeans seek honor and respect, too, but of a postmodern variety. The honor they seek is to occupy the moral high ground in the world, to exercise moral authority, to wield political and economic influence as an antidote to militarism, to be the keeper of the global conscience, and to be recognized and admired by others for playing this role. Islam is not a nation, but many Muslims express a kind of religious nationalism, and the leaders of radical Islam, including al Qaeda, do seek to establish a theocratic nation or confederation of nations that would encompass a wide swath of the Middle East and beyond. Like national movements elsewhere, Islamists have a yearning for respect, including self–respect, and a desire for honor. Their national identity has been molded in defiance against stronger and often oppressive outside powers, and also by memories of ancient superiority over those same powers. China had its "century of humiliation." Islamists have more than a century of humiliation to look back on, a humiliation of which Israel has become the living symbol, which is partly why even Muslims who are neither radical nor fundamentalist proffer their sympathy and even their support to violent extremists who can turn the tables on the dominant liberal West, and particularly on a dominant America which implanted and still feeds the Israeli cancer in their midst. Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, Americans have insisted on preserving regional predominance in East Asia; the Middle East; the Western Hemisphere; until recently, Europe; and now, increasingly, Central Asia. This was its goal after the Second World War, and since the end of the Cold War, beginning with the first Bush administration and continuing through the Clinton years, the United States did not retract but expanded its influence eastward across Europe and into the Middle East, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also engaged in hegemonic competitions in these regions with China in East and Central Asia, with Iran in the Middle East and Central Asia, and with Russia in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. The United States, too, is more of a traditional than a postmodern power, and though Americans are loath to acknowledge it, they generally prefer their global place as "No. 1" and are equally loath to relinquish it. Once having entered a region, whether for practical or idealistic reasons, they are remarkably slow to withdraw from it until they believe they have substantially transformed it in their own image. They profess indifference to the world and claim they just want to be left alone even as they seek daily to shape the behavior of billions of people around the globe. The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would–be nations is a second defining feature of the new post–Cold War international system. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Nationalism</span></span> in all its forms <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">is back</span>, if</span> it ever went away, <span class="DebateUnderline">and so is international competition for power</span>__,__ <span class="DebateUnderline">influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying –– its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United States to diminish its influence</span> in the regions <span class="DebateUnderline">where it is currently the strongest power, the other <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">nations would settle disputes</span> as great and lesser powers have done in the past</span>__:__ sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">through confrontation and wars</span> </span>of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">most of these powers</span></span> would <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them</span></span> less likely, or it could simply make them more <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">catastrophic</span></span>. <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;">It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance, the United States is the dominant Nval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible.</span> Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today <span class="DebateUnderline">Europe <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">'s stability depends on</span> the guarantee</span>__,__ however distant and one hopes unnecessary, <span class="DebateUnderline">that <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the United States</span> could step in <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to check any dangerous development</span> on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war. People who believe greater equality among nations</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;"> would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They </span><span class="DebateUnderline">imagine</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;"> that </span><span class="DebateUnderline">in a world where American power was diminished, the</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;"> aspects of </span><span class="DebateUnderline">international order t</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;">hat they like </span><span class="DebateUnderline">would remain in place</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;">. But </span><span class="DebateUnderline">that 's not the way it works. International order</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;"> does not rest on ideas and institutions. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">It is shaped by configurations of power.</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;"> The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War ii, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe. The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world's great powers.</span> <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 6.0pt;">Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the United States. Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they are more likely to erupt if the United States weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China 's neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan. In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene –– even if it remained the world's most powerful nation –– could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe –– if it adopted what some call a strategy of "offshore balancing" –– this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances. It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, "offshore" role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more "even–handed" policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel 's aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground.</span> <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;">The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation.</span> <span class="DebateUnderline">In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn't change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition</span>, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. <span class="DebateUnderline">The alternative to American predominance</span> in the region <span class="DebateUnderline">is not balance and peace. It is further competition</span>__.__ The region and the states within it remain relatively weak<span class="DebateUnderline">. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span> <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 7.5pt;">if only to secure their interests. 18 And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn 't changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to "normal" or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Space power is critical to global stability and conflict resolution - provides transparency to reduce miscalculation, strengthens dissuasion power, and deters small conflicts</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">M.V. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith</span></span>, Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">11</span></span> “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DebateUnderline">Spacepower provides different ways to manage security concerns. Because of its matchless ability to gain global access and achieve global presence while delivering nearly ubiquitous capabilities<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">, spacepower is playing an increasing security role in war and peace around the globe on a perpetual basis.</span></span> This chapter examines the opportunities spacepower provides to secure the peace and to fight wars. <span class="DebateUnderline">Space power and War Prevention Spacepower is ideally <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">suited for war prevention—securing the peace</span>—as a matter of day today statecraft</span>. To put this in clearer terms, "<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the primary value of spacepower is </span>not support to warfighters, rather it is<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> that space capabilities are the primary means of war prevention.</span>"</span>1 Spacepower can provide both indirect and direct methods to achieve war prevention. Indirect methods involve cooperative interstate behavior to reduce security concerns without the use or threat of force. Direct methods involve the use of force or threats of force. For now, <span class="DebateUnderline">spacepower <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">lends itself</span></span> more <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">toward</span> </span>indirect <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">methods such as providing</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> <span class="DebateUnderline">global and cislunar transparency and expanding broad international partnerships</span>.</span> Direct methods are more hard-power–centric and include those capabilities that deliver assurance, dissuasive, and deterrent effects, matched with careful diplomacy, in a cost/benefit calculus. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">As space weapons proliferate, space power will offer effective direct methods of preventing war</span></span>. Each indirect and direct method is discussed below. <span class="DebateUnderline">Indirect Methods Transparency. Space-based reconnaissance and surveillance platforms, because of their global nature, contribute directly to reducing security concerns by providing insight into observable human activities around the globe</span> and in the cislunar region. Insight into human activity in space, manned or unmanned, is every bit as important as observations of terrestrial activities. When considered together, such insights can alleviate unfounded fears and prevent miscalculations, as well as deliver warnings and indications of activities of genuine concern. This was obvious right from the start of the space age during the Cold War when the first successful American reconnaissance satellite, called Corona XIV, returned more imagery of Soviet nuclear forces from deep inside the Soviet Union than did all of the prior U–2 missions combined.2 This new satellite-derived information caused a sharp downward revision in the estimate of Soviet intercontinental ballistic missile launchers from 140–200 to between 10 and 25.3 Later, only six of the sites were determined to be operational.4 This application of spacepower helped reduce the American security concern and allowed the Eisenhower and subsequent administrations to right-size their nuclear deterrent force against a much smaller threat than suggested by estimates formulated without satellite data. Space was no longer merely a science project, but a real instrument of policy. True spacepower had arrived. As the example above illustrates, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">spacepower provides transparency that reduces the fog </span>during peacetime, increases the certainty of information, and allows contemplation of matters with a better approximation of the facts</span>.5 While this is entirely beneficial to the actor who possesses such information, the value of transparency has its limits. Some states feel increased security concerns if satellite-derived information about their observable affairs is distributed widely. China voiced this complaint shortly after the release of Google Earth, but accommodations were made to degrade the quality of images of areas sensitive to the Chinese government.6 Such concerns must be addressed and dealt with directly, but accommodations can be made. Many states undoubtedly will change their conduct of military and other affairs to ways that are not observable by satellites. India, for example, avoided detection of its efforts to develop and test a nuclear device in 1998 by conducting activities when U.S. imagery satellites were not passing overhead and during times when sandstorms and intense heat could disrupt surveillance sensors.7 Such nefarious workarounds can be eliminated by fielding a large constellation of several dozen reconnaissance and surveillance satellites owned and operated by suprastate or trans-state actors using multispectral technology. The point is that every inch of the Earth could be imaged several times a day using various techniques that can counter various many concealment efforts. Global transparency efforts are large and expensive and by their very nature will require a high degree of international partnering. Partnering. Another opportunity that spacepower provides for managing security concerns is capitalizing on collaborative international security space arrangements to provide global transparency, space situational awareness, and space traffic management, to name just a few. Such partnerships need not be limited to security-related functions, but must cross into civil and commercial endeavors as well, such as space-based solar power, human missions to the Moon and Mars, space stations, space-based astronomy, and so forth. The goal is not only to accomplish something meaningful in space, but also to build mutual understanding and rapport among the participating states. The American and Soviet joint venture on the Apollo-Soyuz mission in the mid-1970s is one such example. Although the tangible scientific benefits of the exercise are debatable, it demonstrated to both parties and to the international community that cooperation on a very challenging task is possible, even between the two Cold War antagonists with their widely divergent strategic cultures. This civil spacepower effort became a point of departure for other confidence-building gestures between the two and certainly eased tensions in the homelands and among the rest of the world as well, thereby reducing security concerns. Partnering on spacefaring projects brings together more brilliant minds and resources to solve problems and to advance the art. It not only heightens the likelihood of success of those programs, but over time it also reduces the friction during peacetime between states, decreases the potential for cultural misunderstandings, increases the opportunities for alliance, integrates aspects of each state's economic and industrial base, and fosters working relationships between governments.8 Partnering is not always easy, as the members of the International Space Station or the mostly European states belonging to the Galileo Consortium will attest. In fact, it can be frustrating and even maddening. Disparate economic strengths, distribution of resources, and talent give each state a different value as a potential partner. States that are rich in some areas will be highly sought after as partners. Poorer states will not. However, from a partnership perspective, all are valuable as prospective partners as part of a collaborative international security arrangement. The opportunities that spacepower offers spacefaring and non-spacefaring states alike in the forms of global transparency and international partnering in order to prevent wars are entirely different from opportunities provided by operations in any other media. The strategic cultures of most states—especially weaker or developing ones that are not yet spacefaring—will find the indirect methods highly attractive and engender soft power to the leaders of such efforts.9 These approaches may be sufficient for most states' spacerelated security needs while reducing their security concerns inside the terrestrial confines. Direct Methods Many states will not feel comfortable having their security rest on such idealistic constructs as the indirect methods alone. Some states, especially those with more militaristic strategic cultures, will likely seek space weaponry (overtly or covertly) in the form of defensive systems to protect their space assets from attack and offensive systems to prevent foes from exploiting space to gain a military advantage. The focus here is on hard power and space weapons—weapons that create their effects in space against the space segment, regardless of where the weapons themselves are based. We will not be looking at spacepower's longstanding support to terrestrial forces that are continuously engaged in dissuasion and deterrence strategies. This is particularly the case with nuclear forces but is increasingly so with conventional forces as well. Many factors contribute to space-related security concerns faced by states and directly correlate to their likely drive for space weaponry. Each state will perform its own threatrisk calculus and respond accordingly. There are some elements of the threat-risk calculus that must be kept in mind. For example, more advanced spacefaring states have the most at risk in space and therefore have greater incentives to field defensive weaponry. Less advanced states may build offensive weapons as an asymmetric means of countering the power of a space-reliant potential adversary. The proliferation of space weapons will drive the need for greater space defenses. The lack of sufficient space situational awareness for threat and damage assessment and attribution increases the sense of risk by all. Finally, every state, whether it is directly spacefaring or not, is a user of space services, and therefore all states are space actors and must consider their space threat-risk calculus. <span class="DebateUnderline">Acquiring weapons is not a sufficient precursor to war, as the peaceful conclusion of the Cold War illustrates. In fact<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">, the possession of hard power </span>capabilities managed in a responsible and constrained manner <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">enables the war preventive strategies of assurance, dissuasion, and deterrence</span></span>, as were used to avert hostilities during the Cold War and beyond. There is an important point that must be made here. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">States can only practice</span> assurance, dissuasion, and deterrence <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">if they openly possess a credible force of space weapons.</span>10 <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">There is no</span> war prevention <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">benefit gained by keeping space weapons a secret</span>, </span>other than avoiding a space arms race. A potential adversary must clearly perceive a credible space weapons capability for these strategies to work. There are no agreed definitions for these terms, so care will be given to explain exactly what is meant. Assurances. The concept of assurances is borrowed directly from nuclear-related literature. It involves stronger and weaker states making guarantees (assurances) for the purpose of preventing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and war. There are negative and positive security assurances. These concepts can be related to space weapons and warfare. Negative assurances would be guarantees by space weapons states not to use or threaten the use of such weapons against states that have formally renounced space weapons. Positive assurances would be the agreement between a space weapons state and a non–space weapons state that the latter would receive assistance if it is attacked or threatened by a state that uses space weapons against them. Presently, there are no known assurances between space weapons states and non–space weapons states in the international community beyond those in the Outer Space Treaty. This is a wide open area waiting for diplomatic engagement. Presumably, the threat posed by space weapons has not yet raised the level of security concerns among the international community to stimulate assurance-making among states. As we have seen in the nuclear community, some states will give public assurances not to proliferate, only to work to acquire weapons covertly. There is always the risk of being hoodwinked, which highlights the need for greater transparency and other soft power– related means of securing the aims of policy. In addition, no state has yet come forward and declared itself a "space weapons state," even though we see evidence of testing and actual employment of such weapons with increasing frequency. The utility of space weapons–related assurances are questionable until it is clear who has space weapons and who does not. Dissuasion. <span class="DebateUnderline">Dissuasion, </span>like soft power<span class="DebateUnderline">, rests on the ability to shape the preferences of others so they behave in a certain desired manner.1</span>2 But unlike soft power, where others choose a course of action you would like them to pursue simply because they find it attractive, dissuasion is really about persuading them not to do something that you would not like them to do. Dissuasion is a negotiation of sorts, where one party "talks" the other out of doing something by demonstrating to them that the costs outweigh the benefits, because the competition is so far ahead that it becomes either impossible or simply impractical to catch up. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Dissuasion is </span>a method <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">attempted by powerful, long-established nuclear states to persuade nonnuclear states from proliferating</span></span>. They approach states before they proliferate and directly or tacitly attempt to dissuade them from proceeding with their program by convincing them that the cost of competing with the powerful established proliferator in the nuclear arena is just too great. The hope is for the state to decide on its own that joining in the nuclear competition is not in its interest. <span class="DebateUnderline">As applied to spacepower, a state that demonstrates a robust defensive and offensive capability may tacitly dissuade others from attempting to compete against that state in space.13 Conversely, if a state's overall power, especially military power, appears directly tied to its space-based assets</span>—a center of gravity—<span class="DebateUnderline">but it has no visible means for defending them or denying other states from exploiting space for military gain, it almost baits potential adversaries into fielding space weaponry</span>. The evidence shows mixed results with dissuasion with regard to nuclear proliferation. Since the mid-1990s, India, Pakistan, and North Korea have acquired nuclear devices, and Iran may be well on its way. Libya may be a success story. Its leadership seems to have made a cost-benefit analysis that resulted in the shutdown of its nuclear program. Other states may have been dissuaded, but the evidence is not clear. There is an important note to add regarding spacepower. A state that has overwhelming spacepower may successfully dissuade another actor from competing militarily in the space arena, but that actor might choose to pursue asymmetric and potentially more violent means of achieving its aims as a result. Deterrence. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">When soft power, assurances, and dissuasion fail, spacepower plays a central role in deterrent strategies that may prevent wars</span>. Deterrence is the prevention of war based on coercion by threat of damage.14 It must be a credible threat of inflicting unacceptable damage on an opponent</span>. This was the case during the Cold War standoff between the United States and Soviet Union. During the arms race of the Cold War, U.S. and Soviet space systems became thoroughly integrated into their states' nuclear attack warning, command and control, assessment, targeting, planning, and most every aspect of finding, targeting, and potentially destroying each other. The end of the Cold War and the commensurate reduction of security concerns that followed allowed the focus of space systems to evolve rapidly away from purely support to nuclear forces toward support to all warfighting activities, conventional, covert, and otherwise. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">It remains clear,</span> however, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">that spacepower assets</span>, as deeply integrated as they are in all aspects of military operations among advanced spacefaring states, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">will continue to be the interconnecting glue making terrestrial deterrence more effective.</span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Inability to resolve small conflicts makes the escalation of global nuclear war inevitable</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BOSCO 2006</span></span> (David, Senior Editor of Foreign Policy, Post Gazette, July 30 2006, “Keeping an eye peeled for World War III” http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/06211/709477-109.stm)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">The understanding that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">small but violent acts can spark global conflagration</span></span> is etched into the world's consciousness<span class="DebateUnderline">. The reverberations from Princip's shots in the summer of 1914 ultimately took the lives of more than 10 million people</span>, shattered four empires <span class="DebateUnderline">and dragged more than two dozen countries into war</span>. This hot summer, <span class="DebateUnderline">as the world watches the violence in the Middle East, the awareness of peace's fragility is particularly acute</span>. The bloodshed in Lebanon appears to be part of a broader upsurge in unrest. Iraq is suffering through one of its bloodiest months since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003. <span class="DebateUnderline">Taliban militants are burning schools and attacking villages</span> in southern Afghanistan as the United States and NATO struggle to defend that country's fragile government. <span class="DebateUnderline">Nuclear-armed India is still cleaning up the wreckage from a large terrorist attack in which it suspects </span>militants from rival <span class="DebateUnderline">Pakistan. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The world is awash in weapons, North Korea and Iran are developing nuclear capabilities, and long-range missile technology is spreading like a virus. Some see the start of a global conflict</span>. "We're in the early stages of</span> what I would describe as <span class="DebateUnderline">the Third World War</span>," former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said last week. Certain religious websites are abuzz with talk of Armageddon. There may be as much hyperbole as prophecy in the forecasts for world war. But <span class="DebateUnderline">it's not hard to conjure ways that today's hot spots could ignite</span>. Consider the following scenarios:</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">• Targeting Iran: As Israeli troops seek out and destroy Hezbollah forces in southern Lebanon, intelligence officials spot a shipment of longer-range Iranian missiles heading for Lebanon. <span class="DebateUnderline">The Israeli government decides to strike the</span> convoy and <span class="DebateUnderline">Iranian nuclear facilities</span> simultaneously. After Iran has recovered from the shock, Revolutionary Guards surging across the border into Iraq, bent on striking Israel's American allies. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Governments</span></span> in Syria, Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">face violent</span> street <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">protests</span> demanding retribution against Israel — <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">and they eventually yield, triggering a major regional war</span>.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">• Missiles away: With the world's eyes on the Middle East, North Korea's <span class="DebateUnderline">Kim Jong Il decides</span> to continue the fireworks show he began earlier this month. But this time his brinksmanship <span class="DebateUnderline">pushes events over the brink</span>. A missile designed to fall into the sea near Japan goes astray and hits Tokyo, killing a dozen civilians. Incensed, the <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">United States</span></span>, Japan's treaty ally, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">bombs North Korean missile and nuclear sites</span>. North Korean artillery batteries fire on Seoul, and South Korean and U.S. troops respond. Meanwhile, Chinese troops cross the border from the north to stem the flow of desperate refugees just as U.S. troops advance from the south. Suddenly, the world's superpower and the newest great power are nose to nose.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">• Loose nukes: Al Qaeda has had Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf in its sights for years, and the organization finally gets its man. <span class="DebateUnderline">Pakistan descends into chaos as militants roam the streets and the army struggles to restore order. India decides to exploit the vacuum</span> and punish the Kashmir-based militants it blames for the recent Mumbai railway bombings. Meanwhile, U.S. special operations forces sent to secure Pakistani nuclear facilities face off against an angry mob.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">• The empire strikes back: Pressure for democratic reform erupts in autocratic Belarus. As protesters mass outside the parliament in Minsk, president Alexander Lukashenko requests Russian support. After protesters are beaten and killed, they appeal for help, and neighboring Poland — a NATO member with bitter memories of Soviet repression — launches a humanitarian mission to shelter the regime's opponents. <span class="DebateUnderline">Polish and Russian troops clash, and a confrontation with NATO looms.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">As in the run-up to other wars, there is today more than enough tinder lying around to spark a great power conflict. </span>The critical question is how effective the major powers have become at managing regional conflicts and preventing them from escalating. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">After two world wars and the decades-long Cold War, what has the world learned about managing conflict?</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Scenario 2: Rogue States</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">North Korean ICBM strikes are a real threat</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Klingner 11</span></span> (Bruce Klingner, <span class="CitesChar">writer for the WSJ and the Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center, January 12, 2011, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2011/01/north-koreas-imminent-threat]])</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Secretary of Defense Robert Gates made headlines this week by announcing that <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">"<span class="DebateUnderline">North Korea is becoming a direct threat to the United States" since it will develop an intercontinental ballistic missile</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"> (ICBM) <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">within five years.</span> Although the media depicted Gates's comments as a major "new assessment," <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">North Korea's expanding missile threat to the United States and its allies has been long known. </span>But it has been ignored, due to failures and self-imposed limitations on the part of the U.S. and its allie</span>s. The U.S. National Intelligence Community, the federation of 17 U.S. intelligence agencies, warned in a 2001 National Intelligence Estimate that "before 2015 the United States most likely will face ICBM threats from North Korea and Iran." <span class="DebateUnderline">Using a two-stage Taepodong 2, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">North Korea "could deliver a several-hundred-kilogram payload</span> . . . <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to</span> strike Alaska, Hawaii, and parts of the continental <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">United States</span>." The NIE also predicted that a three-stage Taepo Dong would be able to reach all of North America with a payload sufficiently large to accommodate a nuclear warhead.</span> North Korea's 2009 Taepodong 2 test flight was dismissed as a failure because it fell short of its announced range, but it did travel 2,400 miles, twice the distance of previous long-range missile tests. That missile can still hit a target as far as near Hawaii. <span class="DebateUnderline">More recently, the Department of Defense's U.S. Ballistic Missile Defense Review warned in February 2010 that the global <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">ballistic missile threat is "increasing</span> both quantitatively and qualitatively, and is likely to continue to do so over the next decade . . . ballistic missile systems are becoming more flexible, mobile, survivable, reliable, and accurate, while also increasing in ra</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date">Iranian ICBM strikes are coming</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters<span style="color: black;"> 09 </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">(Reuters newswire, 02-24-09, gd, </span></span>http://www.upi.com/news/issueoftheday/2009/02/24/North-Koreas-satellite-claim-means-ICBM-threat-is-real-at-last/UPI-13811235497413/#ixzz1SmsCqaQR)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">That same interoperability and transfer of capability between ostensibly civilian space programs and clearly military ones has been followed by many countries since. <span class="DebateUnderline">India's success in launching satellites into space on its own domestically produced boosters was the flipside of its long, arduous struggle to develop Agni-V, an ICBM that can target most of China</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline">Iran's success this month in putting its own first satellite into orbit confounded the complacent assumptions of last year's U.S. National Intelligence Estimate and instead confirmed that <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Iran right now has the capability</span> -- or is on the verge of getting it <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">-- to successfully fire ICBMs that could reach the Eastern Seaboard of the United States with nuclear or thermonuclear warheads.</span></span> The close proximity in timing between the Iranian satellite launch and the confident North Korean announcement that it is about to launch a satellite too may be no coincidence. <span class="DebateUnderline">North Korea and Iran have quietly done their utmost to mutually support and supply each other's nuclear and space programs for many years, probably well over a decade. And they also could trade through the middleman proliferation network set up by A.Q. Khan, father of Pakistan's nuclear program. North Korea and Iran both also enjoy close relations with China, whose government has been happy to support both of them as buffers and proxies to combat and erode U.S. influence in the Middle East and Northeast Asia.</span> The North Korean claim at this time came as no surprise to U.S. and South Korean intelligence analysts who monitor the so-called Hermit Kingdom. For several weeks South Korea and the United States have said North Korea was planning to launch something, and the test-firing of a new long-range missile was always the most likely outcome. Read more:</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">These Rogue State attacks are the biggest threat today, only space weapons solve</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">(<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span></span>, Everett Dolman and Henry Cooper, Everett Dolman is Phd and Prof. Military studies at USAF SAAS, former NSA analyst where he received the Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. Henry Cooper is former DoD deputy executive and Chairman of the High Frontier think-tank and journal. This appeared in Chapter 19 of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower”, edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, ISBN <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">978-1780393858, 03-07-11, </span></span>gd, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The most likely and most dangerous threat comes from a single or limited missile launch, and from sources that are unlikely to be either rational or predictable</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span> The first is an accidental launch, a threat we avoided making protections against due to the potentially destabilizing effect on the precarious Cold War balance. That an accidental launch, by definition undeterrable, would today hit its target is almost incomprehensible. More likely than an accidental launch is the intentional launch of one or a few missiles, either by a nonstate actor (a terrorist or "rogue boat captain" as the scenario was described in the early 1980s) or a rogue state attempting to maximize damage as a prelude to broader conflict. <span class="DebateUnderline">This is especially likely in the underdeveloped theories pertaining to deterring third-party states. The United States can do nothing today to prevent India from launching a nuclear attack against Pakistan (or vice versa) except threaten retaliation. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If Iran should launch a nuclear missile</span> at Israel, or in a preemptory strike Israel should attempt the reverse, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">America and the world could only sit back</span></span> and watch, hoping that a potentially world-destroying conflict did not spin out of control. When President Reagan announced his desire for a missile shield in 1983, critics pointed out that even if a 99-percent-reliable defense from space could be achieved, a 10,000warhead salvo by the Soviet Union still allowed for the detonation of 100 nuclear bombs in American cities—and both we and the Soviets had enough missiles to make such an attack plausible.<span class="DebateUnderline"> But <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">if a single missile were launched </span>out of the blue from deep within the Asian landmass today, for whatever reason, a <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">space-based missile defense system</span> with 99-percent reliability <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">would be a godsend.</span> And if <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a U.S. space defense could intercept a</span> single Scud <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">missile launched by terrorists</span> from a ship near America's coasts <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">before it detonated a nuclear warhead</span> 100 miles up—creating an electromagnetic pulse that shuts down America's powergrid, halts America's banking and commerce, and reduces the battlefield for America's military to third world status 8 —<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">it might provide for the very survival of our way of life</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">US Space militarization maintains deterrence and promotes peace</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">(<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span></span>, Everett Dolman and Henry Cooper, Everett Dolman is Phd and Prof. Military studies at USAF SAAS, former NSA analyst where he received the Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. Henry Cooper is former DoD deputy executive and Chairman of the High Frontier think-tank and journal. This appeared in Chapter 19 of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower”, edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, ISBN <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">978-1780393858, 03-07-11,</span></span> gd, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">. <span class="DebateUnderline">In its narrowest construct, astropolitical realism comprises an extension of existing theories of global geopolitics into the vast context of the human conquest of outer space. In its more general and encompassing interpretation, it is the application of the prominent and refined realist visions of state political and military competition into outer space policy</span>, particularly the development and evolution of a new legal and political regime that maximizes both global security and prosperity. Though historians have done an adequate job of describing the realist—even a harsh realpolitik— view of humanity's tendency toward confrontational diplomatic exchange in the chronology of space exploration, <span class="DebateUnderline">no similar effort has been made to place a stringent conceptual framework around and among the many vectors of space policies and chronicles. 19 Thus, we propose fitting realist elements of space politics into their proper places in space strategy. While it may seem barbaric in this modern era to continue to assert the primacy of war and violence</span>—"high politics" in the realist vernacular—in formulations of state strategy<span class="DebateUnderline">, it would be disingenuous and even reckless to try to deny the continued dominance of the terrestrial state and the place of military action in the short history and near future of space operations</span>. In the process, we advocate an open, honest debate about the future of American space intentions and the application of classical and emerging strategic theory to all realms of space exploration and exploitation— including: • its protection as a domain for private investment and commercialization • recognition of the emerging role of space as the critical, even quintessential, capacity for continuing American military preeminence in the international system • a thorough understanding of the astromechanical and physical properties of outer space essential for an optimum deployment of military space assets • a long-overdue development of a revamped legal and political regime based on current international realities and not Cold War fantasies. Conclusion With great power comes great responsibility<span class="DebateUnderline">. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If the United States deploys and uses its military space force in concert with allies and friends to maintain effective control of space </span>in a way that is perceived as tough, nonarbitrary, and efficient, adversaries would be discouraged from fielding opposing systems. Should the United States and its allies and friends use their advantage to police the heavens and allow unhindered peaceful use of space by any and all nations for economic and scientific development, control of low Earth orbit over time would be viewed as a global asset and a collective good</span>. In much the same way it has maintained control of the high seas, enforcing international norms of innocent passage and property rights, the United States could prepare outer space for a long-overdue burst of economic expansion. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">There is reasonable historic support for the notion that the most peaceful and prosperous periods in modern history coincide with the appearance of a strong, liberal hegemon</span>. America has been essentially unchallenged in its naval dominance over the last 60 years and in global air supremacy for the last 15 or more. Today, there is more international commerce on the oceans and in the air than ever</span>. Ships and aircraft of all nations worry more about running into bad weather than about being commandeered by a military vessel or set upon by pirates. Search and rescue is a far more common task than forced embargo, and the transfer of humanitarian aid is a regular mission<span class="DebateUnderline">. Lest one think this era of cooperation is predicated on intentions rather than military stability, recall that the policy of open skies advocated by every President since Eisenhower did not take effect until after the fall of the Soviet Union and the singular rise of American power to the fore of international politics.</span> The legacy of American military domination of the sea and air has been positive, and the same should be expected for space. As leader of the international community, the United States finds itself in the unenviable position of having to make decisions for the good of all. No matter the choice, some parties will benefit and others will suffer. The tragedy of American power is that it must make a choice, and the worst choice is to do nothing. Fortunately, the United States has a great advantage: its people's moral ambiguity about the use of power. <span class="DebateUnderline">There is no question that corrupted power is dangerous, but perhaps only Americans are so concerned with the possibility that they themselves will be corrupted. They fear what they could become. No other state has such potential for self-restraint. It is this introspection, this angst, that makes America the best choice to lead the world today and tomorrow. America is not perfect, but perhaps it is perfectible, and it is preferable to other alternatives that will lead if America falters at the current crossroad. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Space weapons, along with the parallel development of information, precision, and stealth capabilities, represent a true revolution in military affairs. </span>These technologies and capabilities will propel the world into an uncertain new age. Only a spasm of nuclear nihilism could curtail this future. By moving forward against the fears of the many, and harnessing these new technologies to a forward-looking strategy of cooperative advantage for all, the <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">United States has the potential to initiate mankind's first global golden age.</span> </span>The nature of international relations and the lessons of history dictate that such a course begin with the vision and will of a few acting in the benefit of all. America must lead, for the benefit of all. Notes 1.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">One nuclear missile strike on the US leads to extinction – Economic, Infrastructure, Transportation collapse</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lambakis '7</span></span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Steven Lambakis, National Security and International Affairs Analyst specializing in Space Power policy studies, “Missile Defense From Space”, Policy Review, No. 141, February & March 2007, </span>[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/5516446.html]]<span style="font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">)</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Now just imagine the costs imposed by a ballistic missile nuclear strike against a U.S. city. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The economic toll from a single nuclear attack against a major city</span>, which would involve extensive decontamination activities and impact the national economy, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">could rise above $4 trillion</span></span>. The <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">economy could also be devastated</span> by the electromagnetic pulse generated by a high-altitude nuclear explosion.</span> The resulting <span class="DebateUnderline">electromagnetic <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">shock would fry transformers within regional electrical power grids</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span> The interdependent <span class="DebateUnderline">telecommunications (including computers), <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">transportation, and banking and financial infrastructures</span> that people and businesses rely <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">on would be</span> significantly <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">damaged. Such an event would leave us,</span></span> in some cases, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">with nineteenth-century technologies. This situation could jeopardize the very viability of society</span></span> and the survival of the nation. Moreover, the paralysis leaders would experience would leave the country and its allies exposed to highly lethal twenty-first century threats. The blackmail possibilities of these weapons are as mind-numbing as they are terrifying.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Contention 3 is<span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> China</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">China is beginning to militarize Space</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 11, </span></span>Bruce W. MacDonald is a member of the United States Institute of Peace, former member of CFR, see 1st line of ard, 5-11-11,gd, [[http://www.usip.org/files/resources/bmacdonald_testimony.pdf]]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DottedUnderline">Prior to USIP, I led the Council on Foreign Relations study of China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security, which built upon my years of national security policy work in and out of government, travel to China, and training as an aerospace engineer.</span> The Chinese Challenge This hearing is timely, and one of rising urgency. In the more than four years since China destroyed an aging weather satellite, demonstrating not only an anti-satellite (ASAT) capability but the potential for strategic ballistic missile defense capability as well, it has proceeded to deploy more, and more advanced, military space capabilities as well. We should not be surprised by this, nor should we be stricken with fear. We would, however, be unwise to ignore both these developments, which are public knowledge, and other developments that are of a classified nature<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">. The Peoples’ Liberation Army</span> (PLA) appears to recognize what most thoughtful observers of national security also recognize, that U.S. space assets, coupled with our advances in brilliant weaponry, have provided the United States with unprecedented and unequaled global conventional military capabilities. Both China and the United States are fortunate that neither country is the enemy of the other. However, China’s growing economic and military power, coupled with friction points in the relationship, most notably over Taiwan, suggest that a future U.S.-China conflict, though unlikely, cannot be ruled out. The PLA and U.S. armed forces both would be derelict in their duties if they did not have contingency plans for such a conflict. As the current inferior military power, the PLA has every incentive to develop options for offensive operations against weak points in U.S. military posture, just as our military establishment should develop options against weak points in Chinese defenses. PLA officers have noted the great U.S. dependence upon space assets and capabilities and the way they multiply U.S. force effectiveness. Just recently, they saw how U.S. special forces, and the military and civilian leadership that commanded them, heavily depended upon satellite photographs, space-derived weather and electronic intelligence, GPS, other space-enabled information, and satellite communications in executing the strike against Osama bin Laden’s compound in Pakistan. This brilliantly successful operation was built on a firm foundation of information in which space played a vital role in creating.. Is it any wonder that the PLA would want the capability to interrupt these rivers of information and services that our space assets provide? This information allows our military decision-making, our weapons, and especially our warfighters to be far more effective than in the past, vital advantages across the spectrum of potential conflict. These “space-enabled information services” lie at the heart of U.S. military superiority. <span class="DebateUnderline">The <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">PLA certainly wants to be able to greatly weaken U.S. military power in wartime, and</span> I believe the PLA could do so within a decade using its kinetic kill and other ASAT weapons if it chose to deploy them in large numbers, and thus pose a serious threat to U.S. space assets.<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> China is also pursuing other programs that have important ASAT implications, and other nations are interested in ASAT as well, such as India and Russia</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span> This strategic space situation is troubling. Though absolute U.S. advantages in space should increase over time, the margin of U.S. advantage seems likely to diminish as China increases its space capabilities and space exploitation, and the PLA will reap both the military advantages and vulnerabilities of greater space capabilities. These PLA efforts are funded by a vigorous, quickly growing economy and supported by a government with full appreciation for the roles that space-enabled information and information warfare play in modern conflict. U.S. and Chinese strategic interests in East Asia are not foreordained to lead to conflict; each has much to lose if this happens, and each appreciates the other’s military capabilities. China’s demonstration of an anti-satellite (ASAT) capability through the downing of an old Chinese satellite in 2007, demonstrated at least basic hit-to-kill (HTK) technology capability. They further demonstrated their HTK prowess in January 2010 when they performed a successful ballistic missile intercept test. This shows growing mastery of HTK technology, as hitting a longer range ballistic missile or warhead is a more challenging HTK task than hitting an orbiting satellite. This successful missile defense test has important strategic implications for U.S. security interests that have to date been largely ignored. One Chinese source me that Chinese scientists had been actively pursuing HTK technology development ever since the United States first demonstrated HTK technology in the homing overlay experiment (HOE) in 1984. This source said that Chinese scientists saw at that time the strategic significance of HTK technology and the importance of China mastering it – which they now appear to have done. <span class="DebateUnderline">Besides the kinetic ASAT the PLA tested in 2007, China reportedly has other offensive space programs under development, including lasers, microwave- and cyber-weapons.</span> We also face the twin realities that defending space assets is more difficult than attacking them; and while advancing technology will help both defense and offense, the offense is likely to benefit more. Senior Chinese military and political leadership also appears to appreciate the national security significance of space. 18 months ago, <span class="DebateUnderline">the PLA Air Force chief of staff, Gen. Xu Qiliang, spoke of the inevitability of space conflict, followed one week later by Hu Jintao’s statement about the PLA-AF “requirement of [developing] both offensive and defensive space capabilities.” Writings in authoritative <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Chinese military</span> journals also <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">show a clear awareness of the growing military role that space assets play in advanced conventional military capabilities.</span> A recent article in China reporting on the launch of the latest Chinese Beidou (GPS-type) satellite cited one Chinese military expert as noting that 90% of advanced weapons currently depend upon GPS for their operation. China’s 2008 Defense white paper also notes the major role of “informationized warfare” in future conflicts and devotes an entire section to “promoting the informationization of China’s national defense and armed forces in the paper. China <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">seeks to have a significant capability in this area by 2020 and to be able to prevail in such warfare by 2050,</span> according to their white paper</span>. China's most recent defense white paper, released <span class="DottedUnderline">two months ago</span>, acknowledges once again that space plays a prominent role in its security thinking. The paper notes, among other national defense taskings, to maintain China’s “security interests in space, electromagnetic space and cyber space.” The website of the daily newspaper of the Central Military Commission recently criticized Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy Greg Schulte’s citing of China’s “anti-space weaponry.” I am particularly struck by the fact that the CMC newspaper, though it countered that some countries are worried about U.S. “anti-space” capabilities, did not deny the accuracy of Ambassador Schulte’s statement, as China usually does. This is quite a change, one I believe is noteworthy given its origin. <span class="DebateUnderline">T<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">he PLA views last year’s revised U.S. space policy as “seeking space hegemony” as a “core U.S. objective,” and claims that “developing and deploying space-based weapons is America’s established strategy,”</span> according to published accounts.</span> These and other distorted PLA views must be called out and refuted, lest more junior PLA officers, and others who read PLA publications accept them uncritically. The key questions are what Chinese intentions are for these capabilities, and what the implications are for the United States. Chinese Military Space Intentions A fundamental problem we face is that <span class="DebateUnderline">China says little at an official level about its military space policy and doctrine. Chinese counterspace capabilities may be intended purely for deterrence purposes, to be used in warfare at a time of their choosing, or some combination of the two.</span> PLA leaders have informally told U.S. officials and others that it is in the interest of an inferior power to keep secret information about its weaknesses and strengths, and they appear to be following this advice quite strictly. Time and again the U.S. has been rebuffed in seeking greater openness and transparency in Chinese space and larger defense strategy. That said, the PLA publishes an increasing number of papers on these issues that have not received enough attention, the problem, I am told, being a resource constraint. There is a sizable PLA literature on space conflict, but it is unclear how well this reflects Chinese government thinking, any more than U.S. military journals reflect official U.S. policy. However, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">China’s ASAT and missile defense tests and this literature demonstrate </span>a PLA awareness of the importance of offensive counterspace (OCS) <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">capabilities and strongly suggest that such capabilities are part of China’s larger plans for the future – and perhaps missile defense capabilities as well</span>. It is also unclear whether this reflects PLA interest in OCS for warfighting or just for deterrence, though I suspect it is likely a mixture of both.</span> Should China choose to deploy its demonstrated ASAT system, or more advanced versions of it, U.S. space assets and the military and economic infrastructures they support would be put at risk. One thing is certain – more clarity on PLA and Chinese government thinking on space deterrence, doctrine, space stability, and related issues – and Russian thinking, too -- are urgently needed and are important to U.S. security.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">US dominant now, but Chinese political factions wanting a space 1st strike are gaining popularity</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Cox 08, </span></span>Stan Cox is a writer, columnist for ~500 newspapers, worked for the US dpt of Agriculture, has a Ph.D from Iowa State University in agricultural genetics, 9-28-07, gd, http://www.fwweekly.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=2850)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">In the depths of the Cold War, as the arms race between the United States and Soviet Union escalated, the terrible benchmarks were recorded — nuclear test dates, the unveiling of new weapons systems, the brinksmanship of the Cuban missile crisis. So mark this date for a future history book: On Jan. 11 of this year, <span class="DebateUnderline">a ground-launched missile destroyed a space satellite orbiting more than 500 miles above the Earth. It wasn’t an American or a Russian missile — it was Chinese.</span> Ostensibly, China was just removing an obsolete weather station. Metaphorically, it was a shot across the bows for the U.S., and it rattled windows in the Pentagon and around the world, as surely as a blast on a Pacific atoll did in 1946<span class="DebateUnderline">. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The launch showed military planners everywhere that the door had been opened on space as another field of war</span> — despite a 40-year-old treaty and a half-century of effort by many nations to prevent that. The Chinese satellite destruction was so important that some have called it 1/11 — the space-war version of 9/11.</span> But it wasn’t really China that blew open that door. <span class="DebateUnderline">Six years to the day before the Chinese missile launch, a group headed by future U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld asserted that it’s only a matter of time until there is all-out war in the heavens. Every part of our world has become a theater of war<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span> the Rumsfeld-led group advised, and space will be no different</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline">And if that’s so, the report said, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the U.S. needs to get there first, with the biggest guns</span></span>. At least since then, the space weapons rush has been on, and North Texas defense contractors have been getting a major share of the market, investing technology, experts, and millions of lobbying dollars each year in the effort. Lockheed Martin, the nation’s top defense contractor and a major Fort Worth employer, has been the second-biggest beneficiary of this new arms race, helping develop a whole new alphabet soup of weapons and defense systems — the Aegis, the PAC-3, the XSS-11 anti-satellite system. Raytheon, with several North Texas installations, is another major and controversial space-war player, the main or subcontractor on a host of space-related weapon and defense systems, and a major supplier to the CIA and other spy agencies. <span class="DottedUnderline">The space weapons list includes things like micro-satellites, which could stalk and destroy satellites of other nations; the EAGLE project, a series of orbiting mirrors to direct beams from ground- or air-based lasers at targets in space; and the Falcon, a sort of space shuttle for bombs. Then there are the still-theoretical “rods from God,” 20-foot-long tungsten poles, a foot in diameter, that would be launched from low Earth orbit at 25,000 miles per hour to pulverize “hardened” targets in enemy territory, such as intensely protected underground bunkers.</span> Just last month, space warriors and defense contractors gathered in Omaha for the Strategic Space and Defense Conference, held in the backyard of the sprawling installation that houses the U.S. military command in charge of the nation’s nuclear and space weapons systems. Participants promoted new weapons and listened to speakers discussing the “timely application of space power” and systems to deliver “global effects.” They weren’t talking about solar energy or a cure for global warming. The scariest part of the space-war rhetoric and reality may not be the idea of developing weapons and defense systems to be held in readiness against attacks by others. Space could become just another platform from which this country could launch pre-emptive strikes against its perceived enemies. And — is it really a surprise? — space weapons stations could be used to increase even further the United States’ ability to spy on its own people. This fall marks the 40th anniversary of the Outer Space Treaty, an agreement among 98 nations, including the United States, that bans nuclear arms from space. That seemed the most important limit at the time — the treaty made no mention of other weapons. Still, no nation has ever launched an attack of any kind into or from space. Why should citizens even care what goes on outside the planet and its atmosphere? The prospect of space war seems a lot less ominous than the threat of a U.S.-Soviet nuclear holocaust once did. Nobody lives in space; no civilians would be maimed or killed by a robotic shoot-’em-up in orbit. Helen Caldicott and Craig Eisendrath answered such arguments in their book War in Heaven: The Arms Race in Outer Space, published earlier this year. In the wake of the Soviet launch of Sputnik in 1957, they wrote, humans around the globe began asking, “Would [outer space] be the venue for wars and synchronized killings, or the common space for a complex of cooperative peaceful efforts benefiting our species? The two uses of space could not exist side by side.” The pristine emptiness into which Sputnik ventured no longer exists. Today, the busier orbits around Earth (ranging from 300 to 22,000 miles out) more closely resemble the industrial parks and military bases that litter the outskirts of cities. <span class="DebateUnderline">The Air Force Space Command actually keeps a catalog of every human-made object that orbits the Earth. The current total: 18,400</span>. The Colorado Springs-based Space Foundation reports that the global space industry grew at warp speed in 2006, at an 18 percent annual rate that sent it past $220 billion in sales of space-related goods and services. Half of that activity is commercial, with the biggest growth occurring in “lifestyle media” (mostly satellite TV) and global positioning systems (GPS) satellites and their related equipment and service fees. But another 28 percent of total world spending is by the U.S. government. When Americans think of the space program, they generally think of the National Aeronautic and Space Administration’s space shuttle flights, the international space station, and future trips to the moon and Mars. Despite that 1967 treaty, however, U.S. military leaders have been thinking about the possibility of weapons in space for a long time. And based on Space Foundation figures, budgets for warfare preparations and spying in space quietly add up to almost three times that of NASA. According to Caldicott and Eisendrath, <span class="DebateUnderline">the United States accounts for 95 percent of the world’s spending on militarization of space and owns more than half of all military satellites</span>. The most basic space weaponry problem is the vulnerability of orbiting spacecraft. Satellites and other space objects not only have nowhere to hide; they move in fully predictable ways, making them vulnerable to attack at an adversary’s convenience. And satellites do more than provide crucial military intelligence — they also form the basis of communications systems that keep modern military forces in touch with remote commanders and civilian leaders. According to a report from Rumsfeld’s group, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">“<span class="DebateUnderline">The loss of space systems that support military operations or collect intelligence would dramatically affect the way U.S. forces could fight.” Without space hardware and software, the military would be crippled</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"> — 70 percent of the bombs that struck Iraq during the Pentagon’s 2003 “Shock and Awe” campaign were satellite-guided.</span> Back <span class="DebateUnderline">in 2000, China’s official Xinhua News Agency gave U.S. strategic planners reason to worry. A coyly “hypothetical” article predicted that “<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">for countries that could never win a war with the United States by using the method of tanks and planes, attacking the U.S. space system may be an irresistible and most tempting choice.”</span></span> In 1992, the U.S. Strategic Air Command, a warhorse of the nuclear age, was replaced by something called USSTRATCOM — the U.S. Strategic Command — that eventually would expand the old SAC mission to add responsibility for control of U.S. space weaponry. Since then, the country’s spending on space-related defensive and offensive systems has continued to increase — but it took off dramatically in 2000. Spending on missile defense has doubled since then, and the U.S. is now proposing to place missile defense installations in Poland and the Czech Republic — a development that has infuriated many Europeans. In January 2001, a year after the Xinhua article appeared, the group called the Commission to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization presented its report to Congress. Headed by Rumsfeld, whom President Bush would name as his defense secretary, the report asserted that the United States should prepare for the inevitable militarization of space. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">“<span class="DebateUnderline">We know from history that every medium</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"> — air, land, and sea — <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">has seen conflict,” the commission reported. “Reality indicates that space will be no different</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span> Given this virtual certainty, the U.S. must develop the means both to deter and to defend against hostile acts in and from space — and ensure continuing superiority.” Another reality: More than half of the Rumsfeld commission members had ties to the aerospace industry. And the report plainly reflected that connection, advising that “The U.S. Government needs to become a more reliable customer of commercial space products and services.” Five of the top space-weapon and missile-defense contractors — Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Boeing, SAIC, and General Dynamics — shelled out a total of $13 million in political campaign contributions from 2001 to 2006, according to the New-York based World Policy Institute. Congressional support for space weapons is bipartisan, led by a Space Power Caucus established in 2003. Lockheed Martin, for instance, spent just under $10 million in lobbying members of Congress and federal agencies in 2006. And individuals and political action committees associated with Lockheed put U.S. Rep. Joe Barton of Ennis and Fort Worth’s Kay Granger high on their campaign donations list. The company is the lead contractor on the XSS-11 anti-satellite system and a host of other space weapons. In Grand Prairie, its Lockheed Martin Missile and Fire Control, according to the company web site, develops and manufactures “advanced combat systems and missile, rocket, and space systems.” The attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, of course, ramped up the space-war rhetoric. And USSTRATCOM was given a host of other missions, including those of the former Space Command and a new Global Strike Integration Command, which will wield space weapons if they’re ever fully deployed. In 2002, the Air Force undersecretary for military space acquisitions told The New York Times that “We haven’t reached the point of strafing and bombing from space,” but “we are exploring those possibilities.” <span class="DebateUnderline">When they aren’t talking about China, military leaders discuss the possibility of, say, Pakistan falling to Taliban types who might turn to “space jihad” — shooting a nuclear weapon into orbit and detonating it. The resulting electromagnetic pulse could disable spacecraft across a quarter of the Earth’s orbital space.</span> But many critics of the program think that defensive scenarios are just camouflage for the military’s desire for offensive weapons that the U.S. could use simply as an extension of its power, whether or not any other nation was threatening space war. The Rumsfeld commission noted that “Military space officials will have to develop new doctrines and concepts for offensive and defensive space operations ... and other military uses of space.” Bruce Gagnon, coordinator of the activist group Global Network Against Weapons & Nuclear Power in Space, believes the country’s $9 billion missile-defense program is just a Trojan horse. “Missile defense brings in the money, but the real story is offensive, pre-emptive attack technologies for global strike,” he said. “That’s where the real action is.” Gagnon said that current U.S. space policy remains consistent with the aggressive stance of the Rumsfeld report, “although they have slacked off just a bit on their rhetoric.” In September, the Times relayed a similar message from a former Pentagon official who said that space weapons are “still definitely part of the program, but they don’t emphasize it because the arms-control people come out of the woodwork.” The current thinking of military and industry officials was revealed last month at the annual Strategic Space and Defense Conference in Omaha, where the exhibit hall was full of nerf-version giveaways promoting weapon systems and promotional art that looked like a combination of Spielberg, comic books, and Armageddon predictions. In his opening remarks, USSTRATCOM acting commander Lt. Gen. Robert Kehler (who, ironically, bears a slight resemblance to Peter Sellers’ amiable President Muffley in Dr. Strangelove), referred obliquely to China, which became almost a theme of the conference. Speaker after speaker described the feeling of vulnerability caused by that country’s Jan. 11 satellite destruction, equating it with the alarm caused by the Challenger and Columbia space-shuttle disasters and even the World Trade Center attacks. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">“<span class="DebateUnderline">In the past, we were the unique masters of the air and space domains.</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"> Today, that cannot be taken for granted,” said Air Force Lt. General Frank Klotz</span>. It fell to a civilian, Northrop Grumman Vice President Frederick Ricker, to offer a spine-stiffener to the military whiners: “<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If we can’t have sanctuary in space,” he said, “we can certainly have superiority.”</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">China 1st Strike in Space would be a part of Taiwanese invasion</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(France and Adams 05, </span></span>Martin France and Richard Adams are Chiefs of the Space Superiority program at Peterson AFB, CO, originally published in the //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">High Frontier Journal</span>//, Winter 2005, gd, http://www.spacedebate.org/evidence/1844/)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The keys to any Chinese military action against Taiwan would first be deterrence </span>of US intervention and then, if an attack is initiated</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline">limiting America's capacity and will to respond</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. If China elects to use military measures to secure national unity, its primary goal will be to achieve a quick outcome through surprise, speed, and deception. </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline">America's space-dependent information infrastructure presents an alluring target, making <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a</span> non-lethal <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">strike against US space assets a likely precursor</span> or adjunct <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to an attack</span>. A 1999 article in the PLA-affiliated Kuang Chiao Ching journal described <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">electronic, information, and ASAT warfare as essential ingredients of a cross-strait conflict</span></span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. A recent RAND report argues that an information attack to degrade regional American military might would be a probable course of action for Beijing. Attacking American space assets is a powerful, potentially deniable, and perhaps most importantly, non-lethal option that would dramatically hinder the ability of US forces to react rapidly or effectively.</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China war causes nuclear war</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Hunkovic</span>, 20</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span>** – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]] avidK</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict</span> and a third world war,<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> therefore, many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict</span>, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">if they were drawn into the war,</span> as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism</span></span> in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat</span>. In any case, if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="background: yellow;">Unilateral SBMD development key to effective power </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="background: yellow;">Frederick </span>****Lt Col Lorinda A.****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">, </span>**<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">MBA, Regis University; Master of Military Operational Art and Science, Air Command and Staff College; Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 13.5pt;">worked space and missile officer assignments and ICBM requirements</span></span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> ’<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">08</span> </span>**(<span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Graduate thesis, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">DETERRENCE AND SPACE-BASED MISSILE </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">DEFENSE”, June 2008, Hopkins)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">A realist moral philosophy holds pursuit of the national interest as an ideal guide to the formulation of state policy, especially in a dangerous international system.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">3 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Dangers abound internationally due to political uncertainties in states and rogue elements. World politics may be characterized by a “state of war,” not a single continuous war or constant wars, but the constant possibility of war among all states.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">4</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Viewing the unilateral pursuit of SBMD through the lens of complex realism, reveals areas the United States may emphasize<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">. </span></span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Unilateral</span> pursuit of <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">SBMD strengthens United States’ ability to protect itself without international constraint</span>s on how the US projects power and maintains freedom of action.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The ability to project power lets sovereign nations defend their interests without relying on other states.</span> __SBMD could <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">enable a global</span> on-call missile defense <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">capability and a timely response to rapidly evolving threats</span>.____<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">5 </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The United States has the freedom to launch SBMD assets into orbits favorable for deterring or responding to threats from hostile states.</span> __After unilaterally deploying such capabilities, the <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">United States would be free to launch its space-based interceptors when it felt the need to project power</span>. Landbased defenses located on foreign soil, by contrast, might have to request permission from the host nation before launching their interceptors.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">SBMD could therefore enhance both power projection and freedom of action. SBMD can also help the United States reduce its dependence on other states further. </span>__Augmenting the current BMD architecture with SBMD could let the nation redeploy land, sea, and air assets and reduce its dependency on overseas bases.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Foreign public opinion may not support other forms of missile defense technology on their sovereign territory.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">6 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Political ties between the United States and other countries may be strained if there is public controversy over proposals to field land-based missile defense</span>__. Foreign populations who view interdependence as a potential vulnerability may find it unsettling to depend on the United States for their defense. SBMD could insulate the United States from the oscillating currents of foreign public opinion.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Although some worry that a unilateral US approach to SBMD could start a new arms race or increase tension, the lens of complex realism questions the inevitability of these outcomes</span>__. Realism typically focuses on relative power and not absolute power, and SBMD do not have to upset the balance of relative power.____<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">7 </span>New arms races would happen if nations, such as Russia and China, perceive their ability to wage war is being threatened by US pursuit of SBMD. If SBMD are properly designed and deployed, they should not decrease the deterrent effect of the Russian and Chinese ballistic missile arsenals.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The United States is not interested in renewing or starting arms races with any country. Although the unilateral pursuit of SBMD could produce such adverse effects, the United States, aware of such possibilities, could strive to avoid them. A nation’s desire for freedom of action may steer it away from treaties. The United States withdrew from the ABM Treaty because it restricted how the United States could defend itself from ballistic missile attack. A unilateral approach would shun participation in treaties restricting the United States’ deployment of SBMD. Treaties are valuable as long as all of the signatories abide by the terms and conditions. If the treaty is signed under duress or is inequitable, then the treaty may fall apart. Treaties may also be used instead of other more appropriate instruments of power.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The United States could avoid restrictive treaties if it wants to preserve its freedom of action. </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">According to a realist perspective, international pressure should not restrict the options available to the United States in pursuing SBMD. This approach would steer away from considering the views of organizations such as the United Nations, European Union, and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> until those views disrupt some other issue on which the United States really wants or needs their cooperation. </span>__Unilateral approaches to other forms of BMD are less viable because international actors frequently restrict these US options.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Russia already opposes US plans to base missile defenses in the Czech Republic and Poland to protect other countries against ballistic missiles launched by rogue elements, such as Iran. </span>__International pressures are less likely to restrict the unilateral pursuit of SBMD than its land-based counterparts__<span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. A complex realism argument asserts that failing to accept the national interest may be “a prescription for national disaster, an increase in global violence, and an irresponsible act of statesmanship that places private interests or ideals above public needs.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Thus, because strategic choices take priority over moral choices, the United States could pursue SBMD regardless of what the international community thinks.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The United States could prepare itself to develop SBMD unilaterally, if necessary.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Just the development of the plan gives us our impacts—solves short-term aggression</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-left: 0in; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Lt. Col. Lorinda <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frederick</span></span>, US Air Force, Planning Officer at STRATCOM, 9-1-<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span>, Air University, //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Air and Space Power Journal</span>//, “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense,”</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">When he entered office in 1981, President <span class="DebateUnderline">Reagan inherited a deterrence strategy based on assured destruction, which relied on the unmistakable ability to inflict an unacceptable degree of damage upon any aggressor or combination of aggressors—even after absorbing a surprise first strike. </span>Frustrated with this strategy, <span class="DebateUnderline">he</span> announced the Strategic Defense Initiative (<span class="DebateUnderline">SDI</span>) in 1983, <span class="DebateUnderline">beginning the United States’ pursuit of an active</span> national missile defense (<span class="DebateUnderline">NMD). Thus began a research and development (R&D) effort to protect the United States against a full-scale missile attack from the Soviet Union.14</span> The envisioned system would consist of air-, land-, sea-, and space-based sensors and interceptors. Space-based elements included “constellations of Earth-orbiting battle stations” that would destroy ballistic missiles during their boost and midcourse phases.15 Technologies developed under SDI would allow deterrence policies to rely on defending the United States instead of destroying the enemy.<span class="DebateUnderline">The concept of <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">using space-based hit-to-kill interceptors emerged from Project Defender,</span> founded in 1958 by the </span>Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (<span class="DebateUnderline">DARPA</span>), <span class="DebateUnderline">which r<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">ecognized the promise of advanced weapons</span> and initiated the development of laser technology scalable to the power levels required for BMD.</span>16 In 1980 DARPA began exploiting newly emerging laser and particle-beam technologies for BMD applications, including space-based laser defense against ballistic missiles and aircraft.17 <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">DARPA programs brought the United States closer to deterring and responding to ballistic missile attacks from space</span>.Technologies pursued under SDI could be restricted, depending on the administration’s interpretation of the ABM Treaty</span>. According to Article 5 of the treaty, “each Party undertakes not to develop, test, or deploy ABM systems or components which are sea-based, air-based, space-based, or mobile land-based.”18 <span class="DebateUnderline">The administration reinterpreted the ABM Treaty to allow for the testing of space-based missile defense (SBMD) technologies</span>.19 Although <span class="DebateUnderline">members of Congress largely supported increased R&D</span>, they rejected this broad interpretation of the treaty. It was one thing to explore the potential of SBMD on paper and develop technology; it was quite another to test and demonstrate the capability.SDI challenged the traditional treatment of space as a sanctuary.20 Believing that the benefits of missile defense outweighed the costs, Presiden<span class="DebateUnderline">t Reagan stood up new organizations and attempted to break down barriers, allowing these organizations to explore space capabilities for defense. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">This display of</span> <span style="background: yellow; border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; mso-highlight: yellow; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">will to deploy</span> SBMD <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">technologies <span style="border-bottom: windowtext 1pt solid; border-left: windowtext 1pt solid; border-right: windowtext 1pt solid; border-top: windowtext 1pt solid; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">did not go unnoticed</span> by the rest of the world</span>, the Soviet Union in particular.</span> At a summit meeting in 1986, Soviet president Mikhail <span class="DebateUnderline">Gorbachev pressed President Reagan to “accept limitations to the SDI program as a pre-condition for other agreements restricting offensive arms.”21 The Soviet Union opposed SDI because the new capabilities could weaken its power and security; however, President Reagan refused to accept any restrictions.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Missile Defense deters rivals</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">I</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">nstitute for <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">F</span>oreign<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> P</span>olicy<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> A</span>nalysis ’0<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">9</span></span></span>, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA) is an independent, nonpartisan research organization specializing in national security, foreign policy, and defense planning issues, Independent Working Group, 2009, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & The 21st century” [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Committing to Space The importance of space to the United States extends beyond missile defense. <span class="DebateUnderline">Space is</span> an arena <span class="DebateUnderline">of crucial importance to the United States for</span> civil, commercial, and <span class="DebateUnderline">national security purposes. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">It is essential that the United States not only be able to use space for missile defense, but also to have assured access to space as the means to protect its other vital space-based assets,</span> including improved situational awareness in space.</span> And even though <span class="DebateUnderline">the United States</span> remains at the forefront of space technology and exploration today, its <span class="DebateUnderline">continued preeminence is not assured. At least 35 countries</span> (several of which are hostile to the United States) <span class="DebateUnderline">have space programs, many of which have already led to the deployment of assets in space and more will do so in the years ahead. Yet the United States is not providing adequate resources for its military space programs. This is dangerous because <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the ability to attack and disrupt U.S. space assets, launch systems, and associated ground support stations is expanding on the part of states and even non-state actors.</span> For example, China is developing advanced capabilities for space warfare, including lasers and direct-ascent capabilities that could be launched from China to destroy or disrupt U.S. satellites</span>. In addition, as discussed earlier, several states – as well as terrorist groups – currently possess or are pursuing the capability to launch an EMP strike that would render useless many critical U.S. national security, civilian, and commercial space assets. Therefore, <span class="DebateUnderline">if it is to remain a space power – and indeed a global power – the United States must not only be capable of detecting and deterring such attacks, but also of possessing the means to defend against them, identify their source, and quickly recover and replenish vital assets. This means that <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the United States should</span></span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">:</span> • Articulate a commitment to space dominance by immediately making major new investments in the research and development of space-based technologies to counteract the decline (20 percent to less than 8 percent) in the U.S. aerospace sector’s share of total national research and development investment since the 1980s. The increased funding should support efforts to protect existing spacebased assets and field technologies to enhance and safeguard the commercial and national security uses of space, such as situational awareness. In addition, given that numerous U.S. national security satellites are approaching obsolescence, successor generation systems are urgently needed. This includes the capacity to replace disabled or destroyed space assets rapidly and underscores the need for robust, low-cost U.S. space launch capabilities. • <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Acknowledge the centrality of space to the development, testing, and deployment of a missile defense system capable of protecting the United States, its overseas forces, and its allies.</span> Missile defense, together with space control and assured access, are capabilities central to U.S. efforts for creating disincentives to states and terrorist organizations seeking WMD and their delivery systems</span>. • Reject efforts to counter current American primacy in space through legal regimes and arrangements. The experience of the ABM Treaty, together with endeavors now underway to restrict weapons proliferation and deployment by international agreement, does not give credibility to efforts to impose new international legal prohibitions against space-based missile defense<span class="DebateUnderline">. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Such actions are more likely to place burdensome restrictions on the use of space by the United States, rather than deterring others from developing their own space programs.</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Kinetic Kill interceptors have built in defenses against countermeasures</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-left: 0in; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">I</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">nstitute <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">F</span>oreign <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">P</span>olicy <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">A</span>nalysis 0<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">9’</span></span></span> By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: __Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff__, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis __Dr. William R. Van Cleave__ Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]], The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="DebateUnderline">A <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">space-based KEI is designed to hit a ballistic missile in its boost</span> or ascent <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">phase, when the warhead(s) has not yet separated from the missile</span> and is most vulnerable. It is also capable of midcourse and high-terminal phase intercepts. Ki­netic kill vehicles</span> would be placed in low-earth orbit, where they would remain until a hostile missile launch was detect­ed. For intercepts in the boost or terminal phases, a kinetic kill vehicle would accelerate out of orbit toward the missile which would be destroyed by direct impact<span class="DebateUnderline">. Midcourse in­tercepts would occur in space. By the early 1990s, the United States had developed tech­nology for lightweight propulsion units, sensors, computers, and other components of an advanced kill vehicle. </span>This con­cept, //Brilliant Pebbles//, consisted of a constellation of about 1,000 interceptors that combined their own early-warning and tracking capability with high maneuverability to engage attacking ballistic missiles in all phases of their flight trajec­tory. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Each interceptor</span>, or “pebble,” was <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">designed to identi­ fy the nature of the attack</span>, which might include up to 200 ballistic missile warheads, based on a defense that included 1,000 “brilliant pebbles;” and since it knew its own location and that of all other pebbles, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">each could calculate an opti­mum attack strategy from its own perspective and execute an intercept maneuver,</span> while simultaneously informing the other pebbles of its action</span>. Thi s operational concept enabled a robustly viable, testable, operational capability that sur­vived numerous scientific and engineering peer reviews in the 1989-90 time period, including by some groups that were hostile to the idea of missile defense in general, and space-based defenses in particular. Still, because of persistent pol­icy preferences, the opposition eventually gained the upper hand politically, and the program, which had been formal­ly approved by the Pentagon’s acquisition authorities, was curtailed by Congress in 1991 and 1992 and then cancelled by the Clinton administration.<span style="font-size: 6pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">14</span> But the technology was clearly established, supporting the Pentagon’s approved acquisition plan that each of the pebbles would operate autonomously because each carried the equivalent of a Cray-1 computer and could perform its own calculations for trajectory and targeting analysis. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Each</span> also <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">had its own navigation sensors, allowing it to determine its location and the location of its neighbors –</span> as well as to detect and track the target ballistic missiles and calculate a good approximation of what its neighbors </span>saw.<span style="font-size: 6pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">15 </span><span class="DebateUnderline">These peb­bles would act as sensor platforms until all or part of the constellation was authorized to intercept hostile missiles.</span> In fact, <span class="DebateUnderline">their infrared sensors provided the warning and track­ing capability needed to alert the Brilliant Pebbles constel­lation, enabling it to intercept ballistic missiles in the boost and subsequent phases of flight.</span> The constellation would provide a redundant and, for some applications, superior capability to the geosynchronous Defense Support Program satellites used since the early 1970s as a key element of the U.S. Early Warning and Tactical Assessment system. <span class="DebateUnderline">Their small size, meanwhile, made them difficult to target, while their relatively low cost made them easy to replace. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The autonomy of Brilliant Pebbles interceptors in detect­ing launch and undertaking interception complicated the use of countermeasures against their command and con­trol</span>. And because of the number of interceptors deployed in space, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">these defenses would have multiple opportunities for interception,</span> thus <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">increasing their chances of a success­ful intercept </span>in either the boost or midcourse phase, or even high in the Earth’s atmosphere during reentry in the termi­nal phase</span>. These characteristics stand in contrast to the cur­rent GMD interceptors, which may not provide more than one independent intercept opportunity. Although the //Brilliant Pebbles// program was terminated in the early 1990s, <span class="DebateUnderline">advances in the commercial, civil, and other defense sectors since that time would now permit even lighter mass, lower cost, and higher performance than would have been achieved by the 1990-era technology base. Thus, lighter weight and smarter components could now empower a Brilliant Pebbles interceptor with greater accel­eration/velocity, making possible boost-phase intercept of even short- and medium-range ballistic missiles as well as high-acceleration ICBMs, thus surpassing the capabilities of the 1990 Brilliant Pebbles.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">16</span></span>