= = 
[[toc]]
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Meadows]]<span style="background-color: white;">1AC Meadows</span></span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Meadows-Inherency]]<span style="background-color: white;">Inherency</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: white; display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;">A</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;">NASA is launching new weather monitoring technology—but lacks a comprehensive plan which makes data gaps inevitable and kills tech development</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(alternatively: “DAs are non unique but the aff is still wicked inherent”)</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Quirin Schiermeier, “Climate researchers warn of data crisis,” Nature News, 10-28-2011,[[http://www.nature.com/news/2011/111028/full/news.2011.616.html]]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate scientists warn that critical gaps in climate data could open up after the current generation of Earth-observation satellites comes to the end of its life, with the next generation nowhere near ready to take over.</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The problem is exacerbated by the lack of an adequate replacement for a pair of Earth-observation satellites, the Orbiting Carbon Observatory and Glory, which failed on launch in the past two years. Earth-observation programmes will fail to provide the data continuity required for climate science unless they are more adequately managed and supported, Kevin Trenberth, a senior researcher at the US National Center for Atmospheric Sciences in Boulder, Colorado, told the World Climate Research Programme conference in Denver, Colorado, this week. "We cannot manage what we can't measure," he says. Time gap The US Earth Observing System run by NASA comprises polar-orbiting and low-inclination satellites that make long-term global observations of the land surface, biosphere, atmosphere and oceans. The polar-orbiting satellites Terra, Aqua and Aura will probably shut down in 2015, and the next generation of polar-orbiting satellites is unlikely to be fully deployed by then. The lack of temporal overlap will have serious consequences for the homogeneity and continuity of climate data sets, Trenberth and eight co-authors state in a white paper submitted to the meeting. On 28 October, NASA is set to launch the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System Preparatory Project, a prototype of the new generation of satellites, Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), that will be the backbone of US space-based weather and climate observations. But owing to budgetary constraints, the first fully operational satellite of the JPSS, originally planned for launch in 2015, has been delayed until later in the decade. As observing systems change from one generation of satellites to the next, adequate overlap between missions is required for testing, adjusting and calibrating new sensors. The possible two-year gap in coverage due to the delayed launch of the JPSS, says Trenberth, will cause critical discontinuity in observational records vital for monitoring global climate trends.</span>__

<span style="background-color: white;">B. At a minimum, uncertainty creates data continuity problems – revitalization of Earth Observation satellites is necessary to get the most out of collected data. No current satellites can replace specific system failures</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Williamson 09 (Mark Williamson, space technology consultant, “Knowledge, ,Data and Global Sustainability: The Role of Space-Based Assets,” THREATS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY – ANSWERS BY SPACE, ed. K.Schrog, C.Mathieu & A.Lukaszczyk, 2009, p. 56-57.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although this is also the case for the commercially operated imaging satellites it is not so most government Earth imaging, meteorology and science satellites. They are not insured for their in-orbit lives and are therefore not renewable assets should they fail. This has led to a data continuity problem, which has become even more critical in the light of the current interest in long-term climate data. If a given satellite, or payload sensor on that satellite, fails, there is rarely a financial mechanism available to replace that resource that resource, because political funding is not long-term. A case in point is the Landsat Earth observation programme which, despite its success, has been starved off funds to the point where the remaining Landsat spacecraft are either past their design lives (and therefore prone to immediate failure) or hve suffered sensor anomalies which degrade their data A related problem is that payloads are highly specified and other sensors in orbit are incapable of substituting for them. Data users in the scientific community have become used to receiving this specific data and, since their theories and careers are often based on such data, a failure can affect much more than a satellite. Despite this, there is no long-term plan for data continuity.</span>




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus Trandon and I present the following plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space-based Earth observation capabilities.</span>**





===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Meadows-Advantage 1: Wheat]]Advantage 1: Wheat</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. We are on the precipice of a catastrophic global food crisis -- even the US is not immune</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">EFS 11 (“Ug99: Will Wheat Rust Cause A Catastrophic Global Famine?”, Emergency Food Supply,[[http://theemergencyfoodsupply.com/archives/ug99-will-wheat-rust-cause-a-catastrophic-global-famine]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Will a wheat rust that the vast majority of Americans have never heard of lead to a catastrophic global famine? Agricultural scientists now fear that Ug99, a devastating wheat fungus also known as stem rust, could wipe out over 80 percent of the world's wheat crop as it spreads from Africa all across the globe. In a world already on the verge of a massive food crisis, this is incredibly frightening news. Most Americans have never even heard of Ug99, but the truth is that it is considered by experts to be the most serious threat to the world food supply. Ug99 is known as "stem rust" because it produces reddish-brown flakes on wheat stalks. It is incredibly deadly and there is no known cure for it. The Los Angeles Times recently reported that The International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center in Mexico now estimates that 19 percent of the world's wheat crop, primarily located in Asia and Africa, is in imminent danger from Ug99. If Ug99 were to start spreading in the United States, it is estimated that approximately 10 billion dollars worth of wheat would be destroyed. 10 billion dollars. That is a whole lot of bread. The L.A. Times also reports that Rick Ward, the coordinator of the Durable Rust Resistance in Wheat project at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., says that "A significant humanitarian crisis is inevitable." Did you catch that? He said inevitable. When scientists start using the word "inevitable" it is time for all of us to sit up and take notice. Apparently Ug99 has already jumped the Red Sea and has affected areas as far as Iran already. Wheat Experts say that wheat rust is poised to enter northern India and Pakistan, and that the wind will inevitably carry it to Russia, China and even North America. If it doesn't arrive in North America some other way first. Jim Peterson, a professor of wheat breeding and genetics at Oregon State University in Corvallis, does not sound optimistic about this crisis: "It's a time bomb," he told the L.A. Times. "It moves in the air, it can move in clothing on an airplane. We know it's going to be here. It's a matter of how long it's going to take." Are you all starting to get the picture? This is very, very serious. If the worst case scenario comes to fruition, and 80 percent of the world's wheat crop is destroyed, what will you and your family do? Do you have an emergency food supply? As if things were not bad enough, wheat experts say that Ug99 is becoming even more virulent as it spreads. This quote from the recent L.A. Times article on Ug99 is very frightening..... Scientists discovered a Ug99 variant in 2006 that can defeat Sr24, a resistance gene that protects Great Plains wheat. Last year, another variant was found with immunity to Sr36, a gene that safeguards Eastern wheat. It is not like the world has enough wheat right now anyway. The truth is that exploding populations, record droughts across the globe and dwindling strategic food reserves in the major industrialized nations have brought the world to the very edge of a catastrophic global food crisis. World food reserves currently sit at a fifty year low, and many experts are warning that we are now facing a "perfect storm" that will cause a dramatic spike in world hunger. Even the major industrialized nations are not immune. With U.S. wheat reserves now at a record low, USDA Undersecretary Mark Keenum had to admit last year: "Our cupboard is bare." Things have become so serious that even Time magazine has now declared that we are in "a global food crisis".</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Remote sensing satellites predict wheat loss -- only way to mitigate widespread hunger</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Budde et al 10 (Michael Budde, James Rowland, and Chris Funk, US Geological Survey Earth Resources Observation and Science (EROS) Center, Sioux Falls, SD. ASRC Research & Technology Solutions (ARTS), contractor to the US Geological Survey EROS Center. Work performed under USGS contract 08HQCN0007, Sioux Falls, SD, “Agriculture and Food Availability – Remote Sensing of Agriculture for Food Security Monitoring in the Developing World”, February 8th, [[http://www.earthzine.org/2010/02/08/agriculture-and-food-availabilityremote-sensing-of-agriculture-for-food-security-monitoring-in-the-developing-world/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In Zimbabwe and Afghanistan, years of political upheaval and intermittent drought have contributed to the prospects of widespread hunger. In Zimbabwe, during February of 2009, an estimated 7 million people faced serious food shortages, many surviving on just one meal per day. Zimbabwe’s once-thriving agricultural production had fallen significantly and changes in the agricultural system made it difficult to get good estimates of crop production. In Afghanistan, the 2008 spring snow pack appeared to be well below normal. This could mean a reduced wheat harvest due to inadequate water for irrigation, but crop production reports would not be available until many months later. In the meantime, many people could endure serious hardship. Clear and early answers were needed by organizations poised to send famine-mitigating food aid. Remotely sensed satellite observations were able to provide non-political, objective and timely production estimates. In both cases, we were able to use historically observed relationships between NDVI and crop production/yield to develop MODIS-based crop production/yield estimates, well before conventional statistics were available. In Afghanistan, this meant that anecdotal reports of widespread crop failure could be substantiated. In Zimbabwe, remote sensing showed improved crop production over the previous year, with the number of food insecure people likely falling to a relatively low number, compared to recent history. In both cases, strategic decisions for food aid programs could be made in a timely fashion, helping to keep costs down and increase their effectiveness in staving off widespread hunger.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Only federal action guarantees sustained investment -- critical to solve the advantage</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sohl et al 11 (Mahmoud, director general of the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA). Shivaji Pandey is director of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization. Thomas Lumpkin is director general of the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT). Ronnie Coffman is vice-chair of the Borlaug Global Rust Initiative (BGRI), “Fight against wheat rust needs sustained investment”, May 5th, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scidev.net/en/opinions/fight-against-wheat-rust-needs-sustained-investment-1.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Can wheat rust be eradicated? Norman Borlaug, the father of wheat improvement in the 1960s, noted that "rust never sleeps". Rust strains will continue to mutate and overcome crop resistance. Rather than reacting to food crises, sustained investment is needed to support agricultural research and preparedness to help countries better manage rust problems in the long term. Donor governments, development agencies and the international research community must increase their attention and support to low-income countries striving to develop strategies to prevent wheat rust. And those countries need robust food-security strategies that include sharing information on crop breeding across regions. Increased surveillance — both national and regional — involves testing and tracking rust types using geospatial tools, monitoring the wheat varieties they attack and determining which are resistant. Susceptible varieties can then be replaced by resistant ones. In Iran, for example, a monitoring network of agricultural extension specialists and researchers gathered reports of new strains that prompted the country's plant protection authorities to stock up on fungicide, and establish a nursery testing rust samples sent in by wheat breeders. This helped scientists identify 10 varieties resistant to a strain of stripe rust over the past three years, which were then prepared and distributed to farmers.</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D. The US is key -- shapes international ag policy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WFP 10 [World Food Prize, “Chicago Council Wins Grant to Expand Global Agricultural Development Initiative,” Dec 23, 2010, pg.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.worldfoodprize.org/index.cfm?nodeID=24667&action=display&newsID=11003]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A number of policy developments indicate that the United States is beginning to recognize the transformational role agriculture can play in addressing the challenge of global poverty: President Obama called for a doubling of U.S. support for agricultural development in 2010 at the G-20 summit in April 2009; the U.S. Administration rolled out its initial strategic and implementation thinking on the Feed the Future initiative in May 2010; and both the House and Senate have considered legislation to enhance support for agricultural development. However, to ensure these advances are realized in a way that can have a tangible impact on global poverty during a time of economic uncertainty, further policy innovation, sustained political and financial support, and accountability of U.S. policy for agricultural development and food security is needed. “U.S. leadership is key to ensuring agricultural development receives the long-term policy attention and resources needed to reduce global poverty and hunger over the long term,” said Glickman. “The next three years will be critical in determining whether the new U.S. impetus for leadership in agricultural development and food security will become a prominent, effective, and lasting feature of U.S. development policy.” Over the last two years, food security has risen to the top of the agenda of global issues that need urgent national and international attention. Prompted by the food price crisis of 2008, the increase in the number of people living in abject poverty rose to over 1 billion in 2009, and the need to nearly double food production to meet global demand by 2050, world leaders are giving new attention to agricultural development in poor regions and the sufficiency and sustainability of the world’s food supply. “Agricultural development is the essential first step to alleviate extreme poverty and hunger in developing nations,” said Bertini. “We have the knowledge, tools and resources necessary to solve global hunger, but what is needed is sustained momentum in U.S. policy toward supporting agriculture as a poverty alleviation tool.”</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Impact Scenario 1:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Wheat shortage causes famine and geopolitical instability</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cornell 8 (“Stem Rust: Historical Perspective”, Cornell University Durable Rust Resistance in Wheat Project,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://wheatrust.cornell.edu/about/backgroundandrationale.cfm]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wheat represents approximately 30% of the world’s production of grain crops. The FAO predicts that 598 million tons of wheat will be harvested this year on 220 million hectares of land. Nearly half of that production will be harvested in developing countries. On average, each person in the world consumes 68.2 kilograms of wheat each year. That equates to about 630 calories per day per person, or 1/2 to 1/3 of the minimal energy requirements of most adults. In West Asia, North Africa, and Central Asia, wheat provides more calories than all other grains combined. The Middle East and North African countries consume over 150% of their own wheat production and are thus heavily dependent on imports. Once Ug99 and its derivatives have established themselves in North Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia, annual losses could reach US$ 3 billion in any given year. The effects on rural livelihoods and geopolitical stability would be incalculable. Large populations of poor wheat-growing farming families would be seriously affected and few would have alternative livelihoods. The impact on landless laborers dependent on agricultural jobs would also be severe, and one could anticipate an increase in the rural-urban migration of landless laborers and small farmers. Moreover, such large production losses would have significant implications for rural and national economic growth rates in seriously affected countries and could even affect global wheat markets.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. That escalates to nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wenyu et al., 06 (Xie, Prof. Phil. @ Shandong U., Zhihe Wang, Prof. @ School of Phil. And Soc. Sci. @ Beijing Normal U., and George E. Derfer, School of Philosophy and the Social Sciences, and George E. Derfer, Prof. Emeritus @ Cal. Poly. Pomona, “Whitehead and China: Relevance and Relationship”, p. 28, Google Print)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The threats posed by war, imperialism, nuclear weapons, and terrorism are, furthermore, not the only threats to the continued existence of civilization for which global anarchy is responsible. There are also the interconnected threats of pollution, overpopulation, and resource shortages. Although there has been serious discussion of the population explosion since the 1960s, very little has been done tos top it. China is one of the few countries to have introduced effective measures to bring a halt to runaway population growth. In most of the rest of the world, continuation of the population explosion means that already struggling societies will, in the coming decades, be trying to meet the needs of twice as many people with the same resources, or even fewer. Resource wars, meaning wars in which natural resources are the primary cause, will surely become increasingly prevalent. As absolute shortages in food, water, and oil emerge, furthermore, the relative shortages, produced by the world’s highly inequitable allocation of resources, will become even more intolerable to disadvantaged groups, providing additional motivation for terrorism aagainst rich countries. Global apartheid combined with growing resource shortages combined with hatred of imperialism combined with nuclearism makes for a very volatile mixture.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Impact Scenario 2:</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Specifically, declining wheat yields in Afghanistan force an increase in opium production</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Arnoldy 11 (Ben, New Delhi Bureau Chief at the Christian Science Monitor, “Afghanistan poppy production could skyrocket due to spike in prices, drought”, Christian Science Monitor, January 21, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2011/0121/Afghanistan-poppy-production-could-skyrocket-due-to-spike-in-prices-drought]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Monitors are warning that 2011 may see a surge in Afghanistan’s poppy production as high prices at the farm gate, coupled with a crippling drought that has ravaged wheat production, provide powerful incentives for farmers to grow the outlawed crop. While poppy provides Afghan farmers some security net from war and drought, money from the trafficking helps finance insurgents and fuel corruption inside the government. The colorful plant's sap is used to make narcotics such as opium and heroin. Afghan farmers planted the same amount of poppy in 2010 as the previous year, but the United Nations raised concerns this week that rising poppy prices will push up production in 2011. The farm-gate price of dry opium jumped 164 percent in 2010. “We cannot continue business as usual,” Yuri Fedotov, executive director of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), said in a statement accompanying the Jan. 20 release of his office’s 2010 opium survey. “If this cash bonanza lasts, it could effectively reverse the hard-won gains of recent years.” Prices spike, but only in Afghanistan Cultivation of poppy has fallen by a third since the highpoint of 2007, driven partly by declining prices from 2005 to 2009. Those years also saw international spending to boost licit agriculture and markets, changes in the security landscape, as well as a temporary – and controversial – spike in eradication efforts in 2006 and 2007. As such, Afghanistan's share of the global opium supply dropped to 80 percent in 2009 from 90 percent in 2008. The falling prices ended last year, as traffickers paid more at the farm gate for poppy due to a blight that sent yields tumbling by 49 percent. Yet the sale price of opiates on the other side of Afghanistan’s borders did not jump nearly as much. “This could indicate that traffickers’ revenues are down,” the UNODC report found. Not everyone seems to agree. Afghanistan’s deputy counter-narcotics minister, Mohammad Ebrahim Azhar, has claimed that insurgents earned $602 million in 2010 from the trade, up from $430 the previous year, according to Pajhwok Afghan News. Nobody really knows how much the insurgents make on the drug trade, says Pierre-Arnaud Chouvy, author of “Opium: Uncovering the politics of the poppy,” from Harvard University Press. A 2009 Congressional report pointed out miscalculations in UNODC figures, with US intelligence estimating poppy revenues at $70 million a year. It is plausible that farm-gate prices – but not cross-border prices – rose rapidly. “It takes time for the price of opiates outside Afghanistan to increase, and the farm-gate price hike is never completely passed at the wholesale or retail market,” says Mr. Chouvy. Sales from stockpiles could also have curbed price rises, he adds. Ongoing drought is incentive to plant poppy But if the price differential is partly a time lag, this year could be a feast for traffickers, especially if farmers rush to grow poppy this winter, bringing the farm-gate prices down with rising supply. And farmers may do just that. First, the currently high farm-gate prices make the crop more attractive. Drought conditions are an added incentive, warns Mr. Azhar. “When farmers buy water or when they bring water from somewhere else, it is very expensive for them and they do not make good profit to grow legitimate crops,” he said, according to a Noor TV translation from BBC Monitoring. Poppy not only fetches higher prices, but requires less water than many crops. “Opium production is largely resorted to as a way to cope with food insecurity,” says Chouvy. Poor wheat yields spur greater poppy cultivation in the winter, which is what may be happening now. “Less wheat means more opium both because opium is needed to buy wheat and because the price of wheat rises and requires more opium to pay for it.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. That guarantees instability</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jones 07 (General James, US EU Command in Marines, CQ Congressional Testimony, 3-1, L/N)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Afghanistan's most serious problem is not the Taliban, it is the alarming growth of its economic dependence on narcotics. It now permeates nearly every aspect of Afghan society and underwrites much of the violence we are fighting throughout the nation. It is Afghanistan's true "Achilles' Heal". Afghanistan does not need to become a narco-state, but it is unfortunately well on its way to becoming one. The parts of Afghanistan which are currently producing the largest poppy crops are not those that are traditionally known for the growth of such product. The need to find the right means to ensure that farmers can economically grow and sell legal produce, in addition to developing an overarching and understandable way ahead in the overall right against narcotics, is vital. Ninety percent of Afghan narcotics are sold in the European markets. The money returns to Afghanistan and fuels the IEDs and terrorism that kills and wounds our soldiers. In my opinion this is the number one problem affecting the recovery of the nation. The lead nation for this effort is the United Kingdom. and it is failing in developing and implementing a cohesive strategy to even begin to resolve a problem that will result in international failure in Afghanistan if not addressed.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Instability goes global causing nuclear war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morgan 07 [Stephen, Former Member of the British Labour Party Executive committee, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?” [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However events may prove him sorely wrong. Indeed, his policy could completely backfire upon him. As the war intensifies, he has no guarantees that the current autonomy may yet burgeon into a separatist movement. Appetite comes with eating, as they say. Moreover, should the Taliban fail to re-conquer al of Afghanistan, as looks likely, but captures at least half of the country, then a Taliban Pashtun caliphate could be established which would act as a magnet to separatist Pashtuns in Pakistan. Then, the likely break up of Afghanistan along ethnic lines, could, indeed, lead the way to the break up of Pakistan, as well. Strong centrifugal forces have always bedevilled the stability and unity of Pakistan, and, in the context of the new world situation, the country could be faced with civil wars and popular fundamentalist uprisings, probably including a military-fundamentalist coup d’état. Fundamentalism is deeply rooted in Pakistan society. The fact that in the year following 9/11, the most popular name given to male children born that year was “Osama” (not a Pakistani name) is a small indication of the mood. Given the weakening base of the traditional, secular opposition parties, conditions would be ripe for a coup d’état by the fundamentalist wing of the Army and ISI, leaning on the radicalised masses to take power. Some form of radical, military Islamic regime, where legal powers would shift to Islamic courts and forms of shira law would be likely. Although, even then, this might not take place outside of a protracted crisis of upheaval and civil war conditions, mixing fundamentalist movements with nationalist uprisings and sectarian violence between the Sunni and minority Shia populations. The nightmare that is now Iraq would take on gothic proportions across the continent. The prophesy of an arc of civil war over Lebanon, Palestine and Iraq would spread to south Asia, stretching from Pakistan to Palestine, through Afghanistan into Iraq and up to the Mediterranean coast. Undoubtedly, this would also spill over into India both with regards to the Muslim community and Kashmir. Border clashes, terrorist attacks, sectarian pogroms and insurgency would break out. A new war, and possibly nuclear war, between Pakistan and India could no be ruled out. Atomic Al Qaeda Should Pakistan break down completely, a Taliban-style government with strong Al Qaeda influence is a real possibility. Such deep chaos would, of course, open a “Pandora's box” for the region and the world. With the possibility of unstable clerical and military fundamentalist elements being in control of the Pakistan nuclear arsenal, not only their use against India, but Israel becomes a possibility, as well as the acquisition of nuclear and other deadly weapons secrets by Al Qaeda. Invading Pakistan would not be an option for America. Therefore a nuclear war would now again become a real strategic possibility. This would bring a shift in the tectonic plates of global relations. It could usher in a new Cold War with China and Russia pitted against the US.</span>






===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Meadows-Advantage 2: Cooperation]]<span style="background-color: white;">Advantage 2: Cooperation</span></span>=== 



<span style="background-color: white;">A. Right now Europe and the U.S. are cooperating on a litany of global problems through renewed focus on scientific cooperation. Continued cooperation is necessary to solve disease spread, climate change, and ocean degradation.</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Leshner and Turekian, 9 (*the chief executive officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and executive publisher of the journal Science AND the chief international officer at AAAS and director of its Center for Science Diplomacy [February 2009, Alan I. Leshner and Vaughan Turekian, Editorial, “Europe and the United States: A Crucial Moment for Scienc Cooperation,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/jrc/downloads/jrc_newsletter_2009_02.pdf]]])</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Today, however, a new moment of challenge and opportunity awaits the transatlantic alliance. Confronted by financial crisis, unstable energy supplies, an aging population and ominous climate change, a consensus has emerged in both Europe and the United States that we must answer these urgent challenges with substantially increased innovation. And the election of President Barack Obama, with his clear belief in the importance of science to virtually all societal issues, is a clear signal that the United States is poised to bring renewed commitment to the global scientific enterprise. “We will restore science to its rightful place, and wield technology’s wonders to raise health care’s quality and lower its cost,” Obama said in his inaugural address. “We will harness the sun and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars and run our factories. And we will transform our schools and colleges and universi­ties to meet the demands of a new age. All this we can do. All this we will do.” These are welcome words, and they are sure to galvanise new efforts on both sides of the Atlantic. This is, therefore, a crucial moment for the future of the European­U.S. science and engineering relationship. By themselves, excitement and energy will not address key questions; to chart the way forward, there must be deliberations at high levels of our governments and our research institutions. That is precisely why the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre hosted a joint brainstorming at the recent AAAS Annual Meeting in Chicago (12­16 February). An immediate outcome planned for next October will be the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding and the hosting of a high­ level AAAS­JRC science summit to mark the 50 th anniversary of the Joint Research Centre’s Ispra site in Italy. Among the many questions for discussion will be how can Europe and the United States develop a shared approach to the policy­making challenges that confront us? How do we allow for both the benefits of creative and economic competition and cohesive, efficient cooperation? As we try to mobilise a large, complex system for action, what are the particular roles of individual scientists and engineers, their labo­ratories and universities, professional associations and foundations? What role should industry play? Ultimately these discussions between technical and policy experts will provide the connective tissue and critical steps for turning words into action. Science has always been international, of course. Hundreds of years ago, Europe’s rise was shaped by Persian and Arab understanding of mathematics, astronomy and medicine and by Chinese inventions such as printing, the compass and gunpowder. Scientific and technological progress in the early days of America would have been stunted without Europe’s academic excellence and industrial techniques. During the Cold War, bilateral science and technology agreements were crucial in thawing tensions with the Soviet Union and China. Throughout the 20 th century, the transatlantic part­nership has helped produce historic progress in fields ranging from medicine and genetics to physics, communication and space exploration. Today our students move freely between universities and labs in the United States and Europe; from telescopes high atop Mauna Kea in Hawaii to developing the Large Hadron Collider beneath the Franco­Swiss countryside, our scientists and engineers are working together on important projects. However, as we look to the future, with new technologies making collaboration easier and more productive, a more comprehensive approach to cooperation has become imperative. The intertwined issues of energy and climate change are the most obvious challenge, and the most urgent. They also may be the most obvious examples where international cooperation is a must between various groups in the United States, the Joint Research Centre and other European and world actors. Patterns of energy consumption by industrialised nations are causing global geopolitical instability and profound damage to the Earth’s climate. Finding and implement­ing solutions will require the involvement of scientists from many disciplines, as well as policymakers at every level of governments and in every nation. Many people believe that the United States and Europe must be at the hub of action, if only because they historically have been the biggest sources of greenhouse gases. They must find “an agreed formula” on how to address climate change, Germany’s ambassador to the United States, Klaus Scharioth, said during a recent meeting of European ambassadors at the University of California­Los Angeles. “If we don’t do it, we have not the slightest chance of convincing the Chinese and the Indians and the Brazilians or anybody else.” Ambassador Scharioth’s point applies as well to the way we must approach other global challenges: the health of our oceans and fisheries, the spread and control of infectious disease, improved food production, the development of clean water supplies, and efforts to control the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. While it may be correct that Europe and the United States need to lead these efforts, our research efforts must be opened up as much as possible to all interested nations. That is not just a diplomatic gesture; our researchers stand to gain new insights and research opportunities by working with colleagues in every nation. Nations that just a decade ago were considered ‘Third World’ are today making signifi­cant investments in scientific research, development and education, and are studying exactly the same problems facing more developed countries, even if the details of the problems facing them are different. Individual scientists and their institutions, both in Europe and the United States, are already involved in a range of cooperative ventures with these nations. But if we make these efforts more systematic, the trans­atlantic nations can help anchor a global network of scientific knowledge. There is an emerging effort in the United States to use the international character of science to help build trust and cooperation among nations, particularly among those whose governmental relationships have been strained. For example, scholars and scientists in the United States have put ‘science diplomacy’ into practice and recently met with counterparts from North Korea, Iran, and Cuba, among others. Similarly, we need to expand scientific engagement with Russia, China and nations of the Middle East, where coopera­tion will be crucial if we want to address issues such as climate change, energy and nuclear proliferation on a global scale. Last fall, a group of U.S. elected officials, diplomats, and leaders from science, business and education met in Washington, D.C., to develop strategies for expanded science diplomacy. Like the European ambassadors who met at UCLA, many at that meeting were hopeful that the new Obama Administration will see science diplomacy as a critical tool for solving problems and building global peace and prosperity. These early efforts could begin to reverse the mistrust and hostility that have produced a global stalemate in recent years. As we prepare for the tests ahead, history reminds us that a strong commitment to the Euro­U.S. partnership will give us a foundation for work that will help solve many of the world’s most pressing problems and improve life for our children, our grand­ children, and billions of people on every continent.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. US commitment to greater earth monitoring is key to science diplomacy and cooperation</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Parthemore and Rogers 8-1-11, Christine Parthemore and Will Rogers, Christine Parthemore is a Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program and Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). “ BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY” Center for a New American Security</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]] NEH)</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. government should take three measures to ensure that it continues to receive reliable climate and environmental data: increasing international cooperation and collaborating on space-based earth monitoring, increasing information sharing and interagency cooperation, and finding budget-conscious ways to shrink the gaps in earth monitoring capabilities. Cooperating with key allies and partners will be a vital means of ensuring adequate earth monitoring capabilities in the decades ahead. The U.S. government has increasingly emphasized the importance of leveraging its partners’ space capabilities. The 2010 National Space Strategy, for example, states that “By sharing or exchanging capabilities, data, services, personnel, operations, and technology, we can ensure access to information and services from a more diverse set of systems.”19 In practice, many agencies still view U.S. participation in the multilateral GEOSS as insufficient. As the U.S. government continues to integrate environmental and climate change issues into key strategic planning documents, policymakers are likely to discover that the United States requires unique information tailored to its specific national security and foreign policy priorities that GEOSS does not provide. Space cooperation on earth monitoring can serve a broader range of U.S. scientific, foreign policy and security interests by being more flexible and more robust. Thus, the United States must complement GEOSS with other bilateral initiatives to sustain a steady stream of earth monitoring data. Indeed, given likely budget constraints, leveraging the investments of U.S. allies and partners in their own earth monitoring capabilities and sharing that information will give U.S. scientists and policymakers access to the information they need in the short term, while fostering a long-term opportunity for integrating broader science and technology cooperation into international partnerships. India, for example, recently launched three remote sensing satellites to collect information on water, agriculture and climate trends; it plans to launch two more earth monitoring satellites, in 2012 and 2013, to measure carbon emissions and to monitor forest cover.20 Germany’s TerraSAR-X Satellites, designed to provide high resolution radar imagery that can monitor changes to the earth’s surface – for example, changes in land use or land cover – were used after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan. The United States has existing mechanisms to support bilateral cooperation in this area. The Japan-U.S. Science and Technology Cooperation Agreement, for example, already promotes space collaboration between the United States and Japan, including on remote sensing projects.21 The United States and India have also signed agreements to foster cooperation in space, science, technology and innovation, including “enhancing the understanding of Earth and Ocean dynamics and addressing the challenges of climate change.”22 Diplomats and other foreign policy practitioners need to be aware that these mechanisms exist and that they can be used to expand environmental and climate monitoring</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Doing so would be cost-effective and ensure that the United States has access to the steady stream of data that policymakers need to make informed decisions. Expanding cooperation on environmental and climate monitoring could also foster other opportunities for integrating science and technology cooperation into international partnerships, such as sharing climate and environmental data not derived from satellites and technical knowledge about emerging energy technologies. Policymakers must continue to improve information sharing and interagency coordination so that all agencies can use existing capabilities and promote efficiency. The Obama administration has instructed OSTP, NASA, DOD and other departments to better coordinate interagency earth monitoring efforts, and this coordination appears to have improved in recent years. Yet even though the administration’s own policy documents emphasize improving interagency coordination on earth observation, our interviews with officials at a range of agencies provided countless examples of areas where interagency cooperation could further be improved. Additionally, as the State Department implements some of the structural changes envisioned in its 2010 Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review, NASA and NOAA should ensure that their international space partnerships are fully coordinated with the appropriate regional and functional State Department bureaus to ensure that they bolster U.S. diplomatic strategies. Consistent Congressional and executive branch support is also necessary. The MEDEA program, for example, was initiated in 1991 as a civilian intelligence venture between the CIA and scientists to declassify and allow access to historical satellite images to better inform scientific projections and climate change analysis. However, funding for this program was reduced in subsequent years and was halted altogether during the George W. Bush administration. In 2009, the CIA launched the Center on Climate Change and National Security, reviving the MEDEA program, in part due to renewed interest by the agency and other parts of the U.S. government in studying the national security implications of climate change. Since the center was launched, however, several members of Congress have again threatened to cut funding for this work, charging that assessing climate change is beyond the intelligence agency’s purpose.23 In order to reap the full benefits of past investments, policymakers should ensure that interagency coordination and information sharing are not intermittent, as this program’s work has been. Continuous support and interagency cooperation on environmental and climate change data sharing and planning provide obvious opportunities and advantages in addressing the challenges that inevitably will affect the spectrum of U.S. government resources and agencies.</span>


<span style="background-color: white;">C. Ramping up Earth monitoring catalyzes effective international cooperation -- provides robust data that’s critical to policy changes.</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Lewis et al., 10 James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There has been speculation for more than a century on how human activity may change the Earth’s climate. The era of speculation is over. If there has been any surprise, it has been that the pace and scope of change caused by “anthropogenic influences” have proven to be more rapid than expected. While skeptics remain, most observers now agree that human activities (particularly the burning of carbon fuels and deforestation) contribute to and accelerate climate change. There is now broad consensus that national interests are threatened by climate change. Concern over the effect of climate change led to a discussion over its implications for national security and international stability.1 Many studies agreed that climate change creates new risk for national and economic security, as a result of dislocation of populations or a scarcity of resources such as water or food. To the extent climate change is a national security problem, it is a problem that is not amenable to solution by military tools. Instead, progress will depend on diplomacy, science, and technology. Climate change is a global problem. A global response is necessary, using existing or new vehicles for cooperation. While there is broad consensus that national interests are threatened by climate change, turning this consensus into meaningful action will be difficult. Negotiation takes place in the context of competing national economic interests. The countries most vulnerable to the effects of a changing climate, mostly developing countries, do not have the capacity to cope with these changes and look to developed countries for assistance. Our understanding of how to mitigate and adapt to climate change is still at an early stage. Remedies have been identified, but their effectiveness has yet to be measured. Finally, the data necessary for assessing the effect of these efforts and the mechanisms for sharing that data are partial and incomplete, designed to inform science and not policy. There is still a great deal we do not know about the local and global effects of climate change. Several recent studies identified gaps and weaknesses in climate science activities. One of the main conclusions of this research is that climate science to date has been geared toward fulfilling needs within the scientific community rather than meeting the needs of decisionmakers who must determine how to adapt and respond to a changing climate. Managing climate-related risks requires accurate, robust, sustained, and wide-ranging climate information. Sustained and continuous observations are needed for researchers to evaluate and test climate model accuracy and to identify causes of particular elements of climate change. The international community must address four key uncertainties and gaps in climate research if we are to significantly improve our confidence in climate change prediction and understanding: 2 ■■ Incomplete global data sets for analysis and modeling uncertainties restrict the types of studies that can be performed. ■■ The lack of observational data restricts the types of climate change that can be analyzed. ■■ Multi-decadal changes in daily temperature range are not well understood. ■■ Confidence in attributing some climate change phenomena to anthropogenic (man-made) influences is limited. These gaps and uncertainties are directly related to the availability of adequate Earth observations. Earth observation provides the evidence necessary for informed decisionmaking. It supports the monitoring and verification of emission reductions. A comprehensive and global perspective in climate monitoring is needed to understand the interconnectivity of Earth’s terrestrial, atmospheric, and oceanic systems. Understanding the climate problem requires accurate, robust, sustained, and wide-ranging climate information. Masses of data are already collected for atmospheric, oceanic, and terrestrial phenomena.3 These data are shared among the research community through various international data centers, but the informational needs of policymakers are different from those of researchers. The primary requirements for policy are timely and consistent access to data for assessing actions and reducing uncertainty. The data (and improved models to use that data) that policymakers will need fall into several categories: ■■ Trend data that track the shrinking of the polar ice caps or forests, the presence of gases in the upper environment, or changes in ocean temperature or currents. Depending on the adequacy of predictive models, these data would allow assessment of the rate and nature of climate change. ■■ Regional data that enable the identification of specific regional problems to allow for tailored solutions or aid programs. The need for cross border collection complicates the gathering of these regional data. ■■ Effects assessment data that would reduce uncertainty and allow policymakers to determine whether mitigation or adaptation policies implemented to address climate change are having any effect. ■■ Compliance data to monitor progress in support of an agreement. One of the lessons of the recent climate negotiations in Copenhagen is that ensuring compliance with any future agreement to limit emissions will be politically sensitive for some countries and beyond the technical or financial means of many others. ■■ Planning data that provide consistent and timely information that insurance companies, farmers, urban planners, major corporations, and others will need to reduce uncertainty. These data would allow local planners, governments, businesses, and private sector consumers like the insurance industry to assess the likelihood of certain impacts and conduct cost-benefit analysis of different response options (see appendix A for a more detailed discussion of such options). On the international level, this type of regional information is necessary for determining which areas of the world will be most affected and should receive a higher priority for aid, financing, technology, and capacity building. Monitoring and verifying of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is of particular importance. Reaching an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is complicated because of the inherent scientific uncertainty and incomplete understanding of the carbon cycle and warming of the Earth. Recent scientific advancements, however, allow us to conclude with a high level of certainty that climate change and global warming are unequivocal and that the primary driver is carbon dioxide produced by burning of fossil fuels and, to a lesser degree, by deforestation; Currently, identifying trends in GHG emissions relies on weaving together data collected from existing ground-based networks and space-borne instruments, using a process called “trace-transport inversion.” As the United States and other nations consider whether to adopt cap-and-trade policies, they will need a coordinated and efficient system for collecting and distributing data to support carbon markets and to promote transparency and accountability through accessible public information. Better climate information has helped us move beyond the question of whether action to manage climate change is warranted to what types of actions and polices are needed. Information is key to an effective approach to climate change. At a national and international level, many countries are preoccupied with how to ensure that decisionmakers and user communities have access to the types of information that will make the climate efforts successful. This includes coordinated systems for Earth observation, enhanced modeling capabilities, an organizational structure that allows science to be more responsive to relevant policy questions or functions, and places where information can be gathered and made accessible to broad-based user communities. Meeting the needs of climate policy requires a transformation in how climate research is incorporated into public policymaking.4</span>


<span style="background-color: white;">D. Disease spread causes extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Yu, 9 (Victoria Yu, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” May 22, 2009,[[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]])</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">A pandemic will kill off all humans. In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim to viruses. Perhaps the best-known case was the bubonic plague that killed up to one third of the European population in the mid-14th century (7). While vaccines have been developed for the plague and some other infectious diseases, new viral strains are constantly emerging — a process that maintains the possibility of a pandemic-facilitated human extinction. Some surveyed students mentioned AIDS as a potential pandemic-causing virus. It is true that scientists have been unable thus far to find a sustainable cure for AIDS, mainly due to HIV’s rapid and constant evolution. Specifically, two factors account for the virus’s abnormally high mutation rate: 1. HIV’s use of reverse transcriptase, which does not have a proof-reading mechanism, and 2. the lack of an error-correction mechanism in HIV DNA polymerase (8). Luckily, though, there are certain characteristics of HIV that make it a poor candidate for a large-scale global infection: HIV can lie dormant in the human body for years without manifesting itself, and AIDS itself does not kill directly, but rather through the weakening of the immune system. However, for more easily transmitted viruses such as influenza, the evolution of new strains could prove far more consequential. The simultaneous occurrence of antigenic drift (point mutations that lead to new strains) and antigenic shift (the inter-species transfer of disease) in the influenza virus could produce a new version of influenza for which scientists may not immediately find a cure. Since influenza can spread quickly, this lag time could potentially lead to a “global influenza pandemic,” according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (9). The most recent scare of this variety came in 1918 when bird flu managed to kill over 50 million people around the world in what is sometimes referred to as the Spanish flu pandemic. Perhaps even more frightening is the fact that only 25 mutations were required to convert the original viral strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">E. And prefer our scenarios – the probability of a global problem occurring which requires science diplomacy is more likely than their one shot disad</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Yudkowsky, 6 (Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence—a non–profit research institute dedicated to increasing the likelihood of, and decreasing the time to, a maximally beneficial singularity, one of the world’s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment Of Global Risks,” Draft of a chapter in Global Catastrophic Risks, edited by Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, August 31st, 2006, Available Online at </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf]], Accessed 11-11-2010)</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">According to probability theory, adding additional detail onto a story must render the story less probable. It is less probable that Linda is a feminist bank teller than that she is a bank teller, since all feminist bank tellers are necessarily bank tellers. Yet human psychology seems to follow the rule that adding an additional detail can make the story more plausible. People might pay more for international diplomacy intended to prevent nanotechnological warfare by China, than for an engineering project to defend against nanotechnological attack from any source. The second threat scenario is less vivid and alarming, but the defense is more useful because it is more vague. More valuable still would be strategies which make humanity harder to extinguish without being specific to nanotechnologic threats - such as colonizing space, or see Yudkowsky (this volume) on AI. Security expert Bruce Schneier observed (both before and after the 2005 hurricane in New Orleans) that the U.S. government was guarding specific domestic targets against "movie-plot scenarios" of terrorism, at the cost of taking away resources from emergency-response capabilities that could respond to any disaster. (Schneier 2005.) Overly detailed reassurances can also create false perceptions of safety: "X is not an existential risk and you don't need to worry about it, because A, B, C, D, and E"; where the failure of any one of propositions A, B, C, D, or E potentially extinguishes the human species. "We don't need to worry about nanotechnologic war, because a UN commission will initially develop the technology and prevent its proliferation until such time as an active shield is developed, capable of defending against all accidental and malicious outbreaks that contemporary nanotechnology is capable of producing, and this condition will persist indefinitely." Vivid, specific scenarios can inflate our probability estimates of security, as well as misdirecting defensive investments into needlessly narrow or implausibly detailed risk scenarios.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">F. And science diplomacy prevents all their impacts from escalating</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">The Royal Society, 10 (a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”)</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues may sometimes be the only way to initiate a wider political dialogue. The soft power of science, and the universality of scientific methods, can be used to diffuse tensions even in ‘hard power’ scenarios, such as those relating to traditional military threats. For example, technologies to verify nuclear arms control agreements were a rare focus of joint working between the US and USSR during the Cold War. Lessons from the Cold War are once again highly pertinent. In the run-up to the May 2010 Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), nuclear disarmament is firmly back on the international agenda. However, the timescale for disarmament is long, as illustrated by the history of negotiations over the Chemical Weapons Convention. After the Geneva Convention banned the use of chemical weapons in 1925, negotiations for a treaty banning their production and stockpiling did not start until the 1980s, and the convention entered into force only in 1997. Even now, stockpiles of chemical weapons in the US and Russia have yet to be destroyed. So focusing in 2010 on the challenges of the final stages of a nuclear disarmament process may be premature. A more practical next step could be to establish the scientific requirements for the verification regime necessary to support future stages of negotiation (Pregenzer 2008). In 2008, the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs suggested that a high-level Intergovernmental Panel on Nuclear Disarmament could be established (based on the model of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). This panel could begin by identifying the scientific and technical aspects of disarmament, and then set out a research agenda necessary to achieve them. International cooperation would be essential, both between nuclear and non-nuclear weapon states, as all would need to have confidence that reductions are taking place. The recent initiative between the UK and Norwegian governments on disarmament verification sets a precedent here, and could be expanded to include additional States (VERTIC 2009). However, security threats now extend beyond the military domain, with environmental security attracting particular attention (Abbott C, Rogers P & Sloboda S 2007). Essential resources, such as freshwater, cultivable land, crop yields and fish stocks, are likely to become scarcer in many parts of the world, increasing the risk of competition over resources within and between states (UNEP 2009). This could intensify as previously inaccessible regions, such as the Arctic Ocean, open up as a consequence of climate change and ice melt. Substantial parts of the world also risk being left uninhabitable by rising sea levels, reduced freshwater availability or declining agricultural capacity. Many of the regions that are vulnerable to the impacts of these multiple stresses are already the locus of existing instability and conflict (see Figure 2). 5 Conclusions The main conclusions to emerge from the discussions at the Royal Society/AAAS meeting were as follows: 5.1 The three dimensions of science diplomacy The concept of science diplomacy is gaining increasing currency in the US, UK, Japan and elsewhere. It is still a fluid concept, but can usefully be applied to the role of science, technology and innovation in three related areas: • informing foreign policy objectives with scientific advice (science in diplomacy); • facilitating international science cooperation (diplomacy for science); • using science cooperation to improve international relations between countries (science for diplomacy). 5.2 Science and universal values Scientific values of rationality, transparency and universality are the same the world over. They can help to underpin good governance and build trust between nations. Science provides a non-ideological environment for the participation and free exchange of ideas between people, regardless of cultural, national or religious backgrounds. 5.3 The soft power of science Science is a source of what Joseph Nye terms ‘soft power’ (Nye 2004). The scientific community often works beyond national boundaries on problems of common interest, so is well placed to support emerging forms of diplomacy that require non-traditional alliances of nations, sectors and non-governmental organisations. If aligned with wider foreign policy goals, these channels of scientific exchange can contribute to coalition building and conflict resolution. Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues—such as nuclear nonproliferation—can sometimes provide an effective route to other forms of political dialogue. Similarly the potential of science as an arena for building trust and understanding between countries is gaining traction, particularly in the Middle East and wider Islamic world (see Case study 1). 5.4 Motivations for science diplomacy Science diplomacy seeks to strengthen the symbiosis between the interests and motivations of the scientific and foreign policy communities. For the former, international cooperation is often driven by a desire to access the best people, research facilities or new sources of funding. For the latter, science offers useful networks and channels of communication that can be used to support wider policy goals. Foreign ministries should place greater emphasis on science within their strategies, and draw more extensively on scientific advice in the formation and delivery of policy objectives. In the UK, the appointment of Professor David Clary FRS as the Chief Scientific Adviser at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office creates an important opportunity to integrate science across FCO priorities, and develop stronger linkages with science-related policies in other government departments. Mechanisms to help achieve this could include: • ensuring messages about the value of science are promulgated throughout foreign ministries and embassies, including to all Heads of Mission; • incorporating science policy training into induction courses and training for foreign ministry staff, and specialist diplomatic training for dedicated science officers; • involving more scientists in foreign ministries to advise at senior and strategic levels; • encouraging the recruitment of science graduates as part of the general intake to the foreign service; • encouraging secondments and pairing between diplomats and scientists; • encouraging independent scientific bodies to provide science policy briefings for foreign ministry and embassy staff.</span>




===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Meadows-Advantage 3: Ozone Depletion]]Advantage 3: Ozone Depletion</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Ozone depletion now -- expanding over Southern Hemisphere.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ERL, 6-13-2011 (Environmental Research Web, “Ozone hole has affected whole Southern Hemisphere,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://environmentalresearchweb.org/cws/article/news/46255]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, asb)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Researchers have, for the first time, shown that that the ozone hole located over the South Pole has affected the entire circulation of the Southern Hemisphere all the way to the equator. While previous work has shown that the ozone hole is changing atmospheric flow at high latitudes, a Science paper by researchers from Columbia University, US, demonstrates that the ozone hole is able to influence tropical circulation and increase rainfall at low latitudes in the entire Southern Hemisphere. This is the first time that ozone depletion – an upper atmospheric phenomenon confined to the Polar Regions – has been linked to climate change from the Pole to the equator." The ozone hole is not even mentioned in the summary for policymakers issued with the last IPCC report," says Lorenzo Polvani, co-author of the paper. "We show in this study that it has large and far-reaching impacts. The ozone hole is a big player in the climate system.” Lead author Sarah Kang says: "It's really amazing that the ozone hole, located so high up in the atmosphere over Antarctica, can have an impact all the way to the tropics and affect rainfall there – it's just like a domino effect." The ozone hole is now widely believed to have been the dominant agent of atmospheric circulation changes in the Southern Hemisphere in the last half century. This means, according to Polvani and Kang, that international agreements about mitigating climate change cannot be confined to dealing with carbon alone – ozone needs to be considered, too. "This could be a real game-changer," says Polvani. Over the past decade ozone depletion has largely halted. Scientists now expect it to fully reverse, with the ozone hole closing by mid-century. "While the ozone hole has been considered as a solved problem, we're now finding it has caused a great deal of the climate change that's been observed," says Polvani. Together with colleagues at the Canadian Centre for Climate Modeling and Analysis, Kang and Polvani used two different state-of-the-art climate models to show the ozone hole effect. They first calculated the atmospheric changes in the models produced by creating an ozone hole. They then compared these changes with the ones that have been observed in the last few decades: the close agreement between the models and the observations shows that ozone is likely to have been responsible for the observed changes in the Southern Hemisphere. Kang and Polvani plan next to study extreme precipitation events, which are associated with major floods, mudslides, etc. "We really want to know," says Kang, "if and how the closing of the ozone hole will affect these."</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Satellite monitoring is key to compliance and effectiveness</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BOM 11 (No date, Bureau of Meteorology, “Monitoring Stratospheric Ozone,”[[http://www.bom.gov.au/inside/oeb/atmoswatch/aboutozone.shtml]] asb)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">During the 1960s concerns were raised about the effect of atmospheric nuclear tests on the ozone layer but the first concrete indication that human activities could damage the ozone layer came in 1971 when Johnston pointed out that the large fleet of supersonic aircraft proposed by the US would feed considerable amounts of nitric oxide into or just below the ozone layer. Research had shown that oxides of nitrogen were very efficient destroyers of ozone. In 1974 a landmark paper by Molina and raised the possibility of ozone loss in the stratosphere due to presence of halogen-containing man-made chemicals, including the CFCs; first produced commercially in the early 1930s by DuPont, in the atmosphere. Since ozone absorbs almost all solar radiation below about 300nm and prevents this harmful radiation from arriving at the Earth’s surface, intense international debates followed. Also as a result was the upgrading and expansion of ozone measurements worldwide and the development of more sophisticated satellite-borne instruments for measuring ozone and ozone-related trace gases. The first comprehensive satellite observations were started in 1978 with the Nimbus-7 satellite which carried a Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (TOMS) instrument. International debate led to international treaty (Vienna Convention and its Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer). However it was not until concern following the discovery of the Antarctic ozone hole in 1985, followed by the air-borne measurements over Antarctica by NASA in the Spring of 1987 that a causal link between ozone loss and man-made chemicals was established, that the international treaties became strongly influential.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Ozone depletion wrecks the global environment</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Winchester, 2009 (Winter 2009, N. Brian, Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies, “Emerging Global Environmental Governance,” Vol. 16, No.1, pp7-23, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2979/GLS.2009.16.1.7]], asb)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As the frequency and severity of local ecosystem damage increased, and as it became clear that local events could and did produce regional and even global effects, a fundamental change in global environmental thinking and activism began to develop. With alarming regularity during the latter half of the twentieth century, there were a series of so-called “killer smogs,” from London to Los Angeles, which left thousands sick and dead. A dozen major oil spills worldwide resulted in large-scale environmental degradation.7 Nuclear reactor core meltdowns occurred in the United States and the former Soviet Union, the fallout from which, in the Chernobyl case, resulted in many thousands of deaths. Far more serious, however, is the fact that our collective global actions have created a hole in the earth’s fragile, protective ozone layer.8 Further, we are altering the composition of our atmosphere9 and impacting the hydrologic cycle,10 all with unknown and potentially catastrophic future consequences. The inescapable conclusion is that the scale of human activity has now reached the point where it negatively impacts environmental conditions globally.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D. The terminal impact is extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kelly 90 (Patrick D., J.D. from Harvard and currently practices patent law in St. Louis, majored in Environmental Engineering at the University of Texas at Austin, UNH School of Law, “Using Management Techniques to Solve Environmental Problems,”[[http://law.unh.edu/risk/vol1/summer/kelly.htm]], asb)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My comments above are a suggestion that the human population may be decreased by some reasonably small fraction. That seems inevitable, somehow or another, sooner or later. To place that possibility in perspective, consider that a number of scientists have warned that the total extinction of the human race may be approaching unless we solve our environmental problems.21 After reviewing the mass extinctions that occurred at the ends of the Ordovician, Devonian, Permian, Triassic, and Cretaceous periods during the last 600 million years, Douglas Futuyma, the author of the most highly regarded comprehensive text on evolution, concluded, "tropical forests with their richness of species face almost complete annihilation, temperate zone forests and prairies have been eliminated in much of the world, and even marine communities suffer pollution and over-exploitation. In the next several hundred years one of the greatest mass extinctions of all time will come to pass unless we act now to prevent it".22 In the words of Thomas Lovejoy of the Smithsonian Institute, "I am utterly convinced that most of the great environmental struggles will be either won or lost in the 1990's, and that by the next century it will be too late".23 In the words of Lester Brown of the Worldwatch Institute, "We do not have generations, we only have years in which to attempt to turn things around".24 Anyone accustomed to thinking hope is never lost should contemplate what Lovejoy and Brown mean by phrases such as "won or lost," "too late," and "we only have years." They aren't saying that unless we act, we will have to live with nagging annoyances; instead, they are warning us that most of the species that currently exist on this planet are being rapidly driven extinct. Even if the human race is somehow clever enough to survive the catastrophe it caused, there can be little doubt that the number of humans that could be supported by a crippled ecosystem will decrease; the only question is how large that decrease will be. All of the national news magazines and TV networks have run feature stories which talk in complete seriousness about worldwide catastrophe and the possible extinction of humans unless we solve the greenhouse effect and ozone depletion.25 Even magazines such as Reader's Digest, Sports Illustrated, and TV Guide have run feature articles warning of dire catastrophe unless we begin solving those two problems.26 Surely, everyone has heard the warnings by now . . . we just haven't done anything about them.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">E. Action now is critical</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Winchester 09 (N. Brian, Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies, “Emerging Global Environemntal Goverance,” Vol.16, No.1, pp.7-23,[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2979/GLS.2009.16.1.7]], asb)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inevitably, the stalemate over climate change policy begs comparison with the success of ozone diplomacy, especially given the many similarities.39 Both have moved from uncertainty and skepticism to broad scientific consensus. Both are serious global threats which exceed the management capacity of individual states. Anthropogenic emissions are major contributors both to the hole in the ozone layer and to global warming. Both require action now to stave off projected environmental disaster in the future. If human institutions fail to act, the planet’s natural systems will no doubt self-regulate, with unknown and potentially catastrophic consequences. The major differences between global efforts to reverse ozone depletion and mitigate climate change are the cost of change and the number of vested interests. Phasing out CFCs involved relatively few producers and modest cost across a nar- row range of commercial applications in comparison to the staggering projected cost of GHG abatement. The global economy is fossil fuel-dependent and signifi- cant reductions in GHG emissions and transitioning to alternative energy sources will be the most expensive international effort ever undertaken, but the cost of doing nothing or doing too little too late would be even greater.40 Powerful global interests are already aligning and jockeying for influence in what may prove to be the defining environmental policy confrontation of the twenty-first century</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Firefly]]Firefly</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The masculine discourse strives to uphold binaries, holding itself as what we value, including things like morality, rationality, and life, and rejecting immorality, irrationality, and death. This represses the feminine and represents it as the irrational other. </span>
<span style="background-color: white;">Dr. Mary Klages October 23, 2001 (Associate Professor of English, University of Colorado at Boulder,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue;">[[http://www.webpages.uidaho.edu/~sflores/KlagesCixous.html]]</span> <span style="background-color: white;">"The Laugh of the Medusa" Helene Cixous)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">While Anglo-American feminist literary critics in the early 1980s were focusing on creating analyses and critiques of fictional representations of women in men's and women's writings, these poststructuralist feminist theorists were studying how gender was created and/or destabilized within the structure of language itself,</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> following Lacan; </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">they examined how subject positions were gendered as "Man" or "Woman," masculine or feminine, rather than looking at individual gendered beings and how they were portrayed in literature</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Jardine introduces a new concept, which she calls "gynesis," and which she describes as the process of putting woman into discourse. She's again following Lacan here: </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">"woman," as a subject position within the Symbolic, is defined by/as other, as lack, as absence; how then could such a position speak, and what would it say if it could? Jardine posits a "gynema" as a place where fixed meaning starts to break down, become destabilized-- a place in a text where a "rupture" occurs, and where this woman/feminine/otherness disrupts the coherence, the seamlessness, the stability, of the masculine structured text</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. It's in this sense that Jardine argues that poststructuralist feminist theory isn't about women at all; rather, it's about "woman" and "man" as subject positions within the structure of language. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Feminist theory in France in the early 80s, she points out, isn't interested in women writers or women theorists, but in positing "woman" as a binary opposition to "man," and examining/deconstructing the other binaries that reinforce and uphold that opposition: man/woman, masculine/feminine, presence/absence, rational/irrational, moral/immoral, light/dark, life/death, good/evil, etc</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">. All the things on the right side of the slashes are things that Western culture works to control, to suppress, or to exclude, positing them as disruptive or destructive</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> of the concepts on the left side of the slash. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Hence "woman" and the "feminine" are constituted as otherness, as non-being, as alterity, as something outside of consciousness and rationality, and dangerous to those categories</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Jardine then turns to Lacan, and discusses </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Lacan's idea that woman is "not All"--that the position of "woman" in the Symbolic is founded on Lack or Absence, so that "woman" can't (mis)identify with the Phallus as the center of the Symbolic. "Woman" is a position on the edge of the Symbolic, not firmly governed by the center, and hence there's something in that position that "escapes discourse</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">," is not fully controlled by the center and the system of language</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">. This something that escapes or evades the structuring rules of the center and the system is what Lacan, and Jardine, call jouissance, which is the French word for orgasm</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">. In this context, the word means a form of pleasure that is beyond language, beyond discourse, something that can't be expressed in words or in the structure of language. More specifically, this form of pleasure that escapes or exceeds the rules and structures held in place by the Phallus is a specifically feminine pleasure, a feminine jouissance, which is unrepresentable in language</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">--which in fact works as a "gynema," </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">something that disrupts language, interrupts representation, disturbs the linear flow of language and narrative</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">This jouissance can also be considered a type of deconstruction, as it shakes up the fixity and stability of language</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (where meaning is held in place by the Phallus) and puts signifiers into play, making them slippery and indeterminate. Jardine equates this feminine //jouissance// with the female body, which takes us back to where we left off with Sandra Gilbert: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">is women's writing, or women's language, somehow related to female bodies and female biology?</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> The rest of Jardine's article looks at poststructuralist feminist theories which explore </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the connection between female bodies and the structure of language;</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> this part will be more comprehensible once we've examined what Helene Cixous and Luce Irigaray have to say on this topic. Hélene Cixous takes up where Lacan left off, in</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">noting that women and men enter into the Symbolic Order, into language as structure, in different ways, or through different doors, and that the subject positions open to either sex within the Symbolic are also different</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. She understands that Lacan's naming the center of the Symbolic as the Phallus highlights what a </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">patriarchal system language is</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">--or, more specifically, what </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">a phallo(go)centric system it is</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. This idea, that the structure of language is centered by the Phallus, produced the word "phallocentric." Derrida's idea that </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the structure of language relies on spoken words being privileged over written words, produced the word "logocentric" to describe Western culture in general</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Cixous and Irigaray combine the two ideas to describe </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Western cultural systems and structures as "phallogocentric," based on the primacy of certain terms in an array of binary oppositions. Thus a phallogocentric culture is one which is structured by binary oppositions-- male/female, order/chaos, language/silence, presence/absence, speech/writing, light/dark, good/evil, etc</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.--and in which the first term is valued over the second term; Cixous and Irigaray insist that </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">all valued terms (male, order, language, presence, speech, etc). are aligned with each other, and that all of them together provide the basic structures of Western thought</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Cixous follows Lacan's psychoanalytic paradigm, which argues that a child must separate from its mother's body (the Real) in order to enter into the Symbolic. Because of this, Cixous says, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the female body in general becomes unrepresentable in language; it's what can't be spoken or written in the phallogocentric Symbolic order</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Cixous here makes a leap from the maternal body to the female body in general; she also leaps from that female body to female sexuality, saying that female sexuality, female sexual pleasure, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">feminine</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> //jouissance//</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">, is unrepresentable within the phallogocentric Symbolic order</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Defenses of earth science and attempting to know our ecological situation through space research replicates gender dichotomies</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Litfin 97 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Karen T., has a Ph.D from UCLA and is an associate professor in the Department of Politics at the University of Washington, Jstor “The Gendered Eye in the Sky: A Feminist Perspective on Earth Observation Satellites” pg.30-31)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Taking these assumptions in order</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">, consider the purported neutrality of science and scientists</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. Since the publication ofThomas Kuhn's work in the 1960s</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">, a great deal of research in the history of science</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> and the sociology of knowledge </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">has undercut this assumption, demonstrating that science</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, like all social institutions</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">, is suffused with power dynamics and irrationalities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.19 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Feminist theorists have highlighted the dimension of gender, elucidating how scientific practice has evolved under the formative influence of a particular ideal of masculinity based upon objectification and control</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. Feminists relate </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">the fixation on scientific objectivity</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, which </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">depends upon a rigid dichotomy between subject and object, to other parallel hierarchical dichotomies of modernity: human/animal</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, mind/body, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">mas-culine/feminine</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, reason/emotion, and elite/mass. Feminists also </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">find in these hi-erarchical dichotomies of modernity the link between the oppression of women and the degradation of nature</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, pointing to the Baconian legacy that summons the scientist "to bind Nature to your service and make her your slave."20 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Women</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">who have been traditionally defined as objects of control, have good reason to question the subject/object dichotomy</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. Evelyn Fox Keller, one of the pioneers of feminist philosophy of science, argues that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">the static objectivity of science that renders Nature into alien Other is rooted in the distinctive subjectivity of masculine psychological development with its preoccupation with autonomy</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.21 Keller's conception of dynamic objec-tivity offers an alternative stance, one that draws upon the ebb and flow (rather than a rigid dichotomy) between subject and object. While dynamic objectivity, which "actively draws on the commonality between mind and nature as a re-source for understanding," is rooted in a feminist psychoanalytic perspective, it is similar to Sylvester's postmodern feminist notion of "empathic cooperation."22 I return to these ideas toward the end of this article in order to draw out the possi-bilities of Earth remote sensing informed by feminist insights. With respect to issues of objectivity, one striking aspect of remote sensing of the environment is indeed its very remoteness. In a sense</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">, satellite-generated pho-tographs of the earth represent the ultimate subject/object dichotomy. Space tech-nology offers the tantalizing prospect of being able to leave the earth in order to get a better view-the ultimate</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Archimedean </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">vantage point. Rather than being embedded participants in the reality depicted, Earth system scientists become disengaged observers of that reality</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.23T hus, according to the celebratory dis-course, remote sensing is "building a valid picture of the earth" for the first time.24 Presumably this picture is "valid" because it is drawn from huge quantities of objective, remotely acquired information. It is a picture that privileges knowl-edge derived from abstract science over knowledge derived from lived experi-ence. The main elements of a spaceborne remote sensing system are "spacecraft, instruments, modeling/systems engineering, and data processing,"25e lements that give primacy to an expert structure comprised primarily of white men in affluent societies. To the question, "Who shall be designated as reliable environmental narrators?"E arth system science answers, "Scientists with professional creden-tials in physics, chemistry, and computer sciences-particularly those whose work is most distant from the everyday lived experience of poor people and most women." Whenever quantifiability monopolizes the mantle of legitimacy, qualititative val-ues are given short shrift, so that even if satellite data are supplemented with "ground truth," the privileging of abstract decontextualized data is likely to de-value other approaches to knowledge.26 In particular, as a male-dominated activ-ity, it may reinforce the division of labor that Joni Seager suggests permeates environmental politics: Women care about the environment and men think about it. 27A strong feminist position need not valorize caring as the only viable activity, but can rather insist that environmental preservation requires both men and women to become caring and thinking</span>

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">River Tam is the embodiment of feminine discourse, her value is not immediately recognized or understood, her methods and reasoning are at first rejected but she is then later understood and accepted by the crew of serenity she saves them and protects them before they understand why or how. We affirm River Tam.</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Buckman, 08 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Allison R (From the essay Much Madness is Divinest Sense, Book-Investigating Firefly and Serenity: Science Fiction on the Fronteir)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">River Tam is simultaneously portrayed in ‘Safe’ as a damsel in distress to be rescued</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> by Daddy2, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">and as threatening witch3 who must be destroyed.</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">The</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> polysemic </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">nature of Joss Whedon’s texts allows both superficially simple and complex constructions to co-exist</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, the latter often interrogating the former4. So </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">it is with both Malcolm Reynolds and River Tam, seemingly traditional characters—the cowboy hero and the hysterical girl,</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> through whom the mythologies associated with these stock characters </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">are challenged via language, cinematography, and story.</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Through his reconfigurations of conventions, Whedon deconstructs masculine discourse, including the male gaze of cinema, and constructs an exemplar of feminine subjectivity</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. The leader of a group of societal misfits, Captain Malcolm Reynolds determines who will be on his crew, where they will seek their ‘jobs’, and how the ship will be run. From the very first scene of ‘Serenity’ (1.1), we viewers are focused on his actions ,his command of situations and his gaze through framing, screen time, close-ups, and point-of-views shots. We are dropped into the middle of the action at the Battle of Serenity Valley; these cinematographic techniques encourage us almost immediately (thirty-two seconds in) to focus on Mal as leader. The quick cuts of the camera and its unsteadiness also ready us to identify with the Independent soldiers, aka Browncoats. The last shot of this scene focuses on Mal watching the enemy’s ships descend: shot full frontal and close up, his face is halfway in darkness; we cut to a shot from his perspective of Alliance ships descending, then back to the shot of Mal’s face. Dollying backward from the scene now playing in slow motion, music plays over the sound of the battle. We are distanced from the scene and Mal, preparing us for a cut to a scene six years later: Mal is now in a spacesuit, filmed upside down. His world has been completely turned around—hence the visual metaphor—and we are positioned visually to identify with him. Even when not physically in a scene, Mal is often the subject of discussion. He is narratively and visually constructed as the isolated hero of a failed resistance movement, an outsider rebelling against hero of a failed resistance movement, an outsider rebelling against an authoritarian society—in other words, a Western hero5. In turn,</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the women of the show are sexualized through visual and verbal means and removed from the role of hero in accordance</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> with both the tools of cinema and </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the heroic monomyth6; ‘warrior woman’7, a prostitute/Companion8, and a seeming hysteric</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">9. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">We first meet the latter, River</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, when Mal hurries to investigate a large crate that a passenger</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">, Dr. Simon Tam, has brought on board in ‘Serentiy’; in it, he finds River in suspended animation. Curled in a fetal position, which visually presents her as a child10</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, she is filmed from above in a high-angle full shot—a view matching Mal’s point of view. The use of a high angle </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">visualizes River as a vulnerable object authorizing Mal’s reading of the situation</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Mal immediately asserts her status as object; he assumes she has been purchased as a sex slave for Simon or another buyer. At this point, the male gaze—the ways in which the camera envisions the world from the viewpoint of the male hero—seems validated.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Mal has been established as the hero, and River has been relegated to the role of object. Leaving the view paused upon this image by cutting to a commercial break11, upon return </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">River bursts from the box in long shot to escape and/or hide; Simon attempts to calm her, asserting his role as substitute father</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">‘What the hell is this?’ Mal asks, perplexed by the care Simon shows her, since it does not fit with his vision of the situation. ‘This is my sister,’ responds Simon, desexualizing the narrative verbally and through his position and body language on screen</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">12.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">We soon learn that River has been the victim of a program of experimentation by the Alliance, the patriarchal and fascist government</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> that won the war against the Browncoats. Over the course of the series, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the audience</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and crew </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">gradually find out more about the modifications made to her brain, her high IQ, and psychic abilities. Although viewers’ investigation of River as a mystery might suggest her objectification</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, as per Laura Mulvey’s essay on ‘Visual Pleasure,’13 </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the process by which we learn about River works against this objectification. Even as her brother/father, Simon, is befuddled by her mysterious behavior, attempting to diagnose and hoping to ‘fix’ her, the audience is enabled to deconstruct this vision of River and patriarchal discourse such as the gaze</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. In ‘The Train Job’ (1.2), for instance, Mal assures Simon he isn’t worried about Simon’s abilities to fend for himself; however, he asks, ‘How’s your sister?’ Simon begins: ‘</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">One moment she seems perfectly cogent, the next… she speaks nonsense. It’s like a child… so difficult to diagnose.’ River is again presented as an hysterical child</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">To destroy the phallogocentric order and assert feminine discourse in way to mirror the masculine Trandon and I must assume the feminine role deliberately, to take something of subordination and repression and turn it into affirmation Trandon and I must reassert the feminine through rejection of masculine logic.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Luce Irigaray 1977 (This Sex Which is Not One, Chapter 4 “The power of discourse and subordination of the feminine”)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Now, this </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">domination of the philosophic logos stems in large part from its power to reduce all others to the economy of the Same. The teleologically constructive project it takes on is always also a project of diversion, deflection, reduction of the other in the Same. And, in its greatest generality perhaps, from its power to eradicate the diffirence between the sexes in systems that are self representative of a "masculine subject."</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Whence the necessity of "reopening" the figures of philosophical discourse-idea, substance, subject, transcendental subjectivity, absolute knowledge-</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">in order to pry out of them what they have borrowed that is feminine, from the feminine, to make them "render up" and give back what they owe the feminine. This may be done in various ways</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, along various "paths"; moreover, at minimum several of these must be pursued. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">One way is to interrogate the conditions under which systematicity itself is possible: what the coherence of the discursive utterance conceals of the conditions under which it is produced</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, whatever it may say about these conditions in discourse. For example </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the "matter" from which the speaking subject draws nourishment in order to produce itself, to reproduce itself; the scenography that makes representation feasible, representation as defined in philosophy</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, that is, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the architectonics of its theatre, its framing in space-time, its geometric organization, its props, its actors, their respective positions, their dialogues, indeed their tragic relations, without overlooking the mirror, most often hidden, that allows the logos, the subject, to reduplicate itself, to reflect itself by itself</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. All these are interventions on the scene</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">; they ensure its coherence so long as they remain uninterpreted</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Thus </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">they have to be reenacted</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, in each figure of discourse, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">in order to shake discourse away from its mooring in the value of "presence." For each philosopher</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, beginning with those whose names define some age in the history of philosophy,</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;"> we have to point out how the break with material contiguity is made, how the system is put together, how the specular economy works. This process of interpretive rereading has always been a psychoanalytic undertaking </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">as well. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">That is why we need to pay attention to the way the unconscious works in each philosophy</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, and perhaps in philosophy in general. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">We need to listen (psycho ) analytically to its procedures of repression, to the structuration of language that shores up its representations, separating the true from the false, the meaningful from the meaningless</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, and so forth. This does not mean that we have to give ourselves over to some kind of symbolic, point-by-point interpretation of philosophers' utterances. Moreover, even if we were to do so, we would still be leaving the mystery of "the origin" intact. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">What is called for</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> instead </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">is an examination of the operation of the </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">''grammar'' of each figure of discourse</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, its syntactic laws or requirements, its imaginary configurations, its metaphoric networks, and also, of course, what it does not articulate at the level of utterance:</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">its silences.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> But as we have already seen, even with the help oflinguistics, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">psychoanalysis cannot solve the problem of the articulation of the female sex in discourse.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Even though Freud's theory, through an effect of dress-rehearsal-at least as far as the relation between the sexes is concerned-shows clearly the function ofthe feminine in that scene. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">What remains to be done, then, is to work at "destroying" the discursive mechanism</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Which is not a simple undertaking ... For </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">how can we introduce ourselves such a tightly-woven systematicity</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">? is, in an initial phase, perhaps only one "path," the one assigned to the feminine: that of</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">mimicry.</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">One must assume the feminine role deliberately. Which means already to convert a form of subordination into an affirmation, and thus to begin to thwart it. Whereas a direct feminine challenge to this condition means demanding to speak as a (masculine) "subject," that is, it means to postulate a to the that would maintain sexual indifference</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. To play with mimesis is thus, for a woman, to try to recover the place of her exploitation by herself to be simply reduced to it. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">It means to resubmit herself in as much as she is on the side of "perceptible," of "matter"-to "ideas," in particular to ideas about herself, that are elaborated in/by a masculine logic, but so as to make "visible," by an effect of playful repetition, what was supposed to remain invisible:</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the cover-up of a possible operation of the feminine in language. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">It also means "to unveil" the fact that, if women are such good mimics, it is because they are not simply resorbed in this function. They also remain elsewhere: another case of the persistence of "matter," but also of "sexual pleasure.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> "</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">To speak of women in a masculine sense is to reestablish the repression and censorship of the feminine, a reestablishment of the system which aims to destroy, define and exclude all that is feminine. It reaffirms through discourse the feminine as a lack, when in reality discursivity cannot conceive or understand the true value of feminine discourse.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Luce Irigaray 1977 (This Sex Which is Not One, Chapter 4 “The power of discourse and subordination of the feminine”)</span>

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Does this retraversal of discourse in order to rediscover a "Feminine" place suppose a certain work on/of language</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">? </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">It is surely not a matter of interpreting the operation of discourse while remaining within the same type of utterance as the one that guarantees discursive coherence.</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">This is moreover the danger of every statement, every discussion, about Speculum. And, more generally speaking, of every discussion about the question of woman. For to speak of or about woman may</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> always boil down to, or </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">be understood as, a recuperation of the feminine within a logic that maintains it in repression, censorship, nonrecognition</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. In other words, the issue is not one of elaborating a new theory ofwhich woman would be the subject or the object, but of jamming the theoretical machinery itself, of suspending its pretension to the production of a truth and of a meaning that are excessively univocal. Which presupposes that </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">women do not aspire simply to be men's equals in knowledge. That they do not claim to be rivaling men in constructing a logic of the feminine that would still take onto-theo-Iogic as its model</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, but that </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">they are rather attempting to wrest this question away from the ecomony ofthe logos. They should not put it, then, in the form "What is woman?" but rather, repeating interpreting the way in which, within discourse, the feminine finds itself defined as lack, deficiency, or as imitation and negative image of the subject</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, they should signify that with respect to this logic a disruptive excess is possible on the feminine side. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">An excess that exceeds common sense only on condition that the feminine not renounce its "style." Which, ofcourse, is not a style at all, according to the traditional way of looking at things</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. The Power oj Discourse </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">This "style," or "writing," ofwomen tends to put the torch to fetish words, proper terms, well-constructed forms. This "style" does not privilege sight; instead, it takes each figure back to its source, which is among other things tactile</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. It comes back in touch with itselfin that origin without ever constituting in it, constituting itself in it, as some sort of unity. Simultaneity is its "proper" aspect-a proper(ty) that is never fixed in the possible identity-to-self of some form or other. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">It is always fluid, without neglecting the characteristics of fluids that are difficult to idealize: those rubbings between two infinitely near neighbors that create a dynamics. Its "style" resists and explodes every firmly established form, figure, idea or concept.</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Which does not mean that it lacks style, as we might be led to believe by a discursivity that cannot conceive of it.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> But </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">its "style" cannot be upheld as a thesis, cannot be the object of a position. And even the motifs of "self-touching," of "proximity</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">," isolated as such or reduced to utterances, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">could effectively pass for an attempt to appropriate the feminine to discourse.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> We would still have to ascertain whether "touching oneself," that (self) touching, the desire for the proximate rather than for (the) proper(ty), </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">and so on, might not imply a mode of exchange irreducible to any centering, any centrism</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, given the way the "self-touching" of female "self-affection" comes into playas a</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">rebounding from one to the other without any possibility of interruption, and given that</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">, in this interplay, proximity confounds any adequation, any appropriation. But of course if these were only "motifs" without any work on and/or with language, the discursive economy could remain intact</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">How, then, are we to try to redefine this language work that would leave space for the feminine? Let us say that every dichotomizing-and at the same time redoubling-break, including the one between enunciation and utterance, has to be disrupted. Nothing is ever to be posited that is not also reversed</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">and caught up again in the supplementarity of this reversal</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> it </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">another way: there would no longer be either a right side or a wrong side ofdiscourse, or even of texts, but each passing from one to the other would make audible and comprehensible even what resists the recto-verso structure that shores up common sense</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. If this is to be practiced for every meaning posited-for every word, utterance, sentence, but also of course for every phoneme, every letter-we need to proceed in such a way that </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">linear reading is no longer possible: that is, the retroactive impact of the end of each word, utterance, or sentence upon its beginning must be taken into consideration in order to undo the of its teleological effect, including its deferred action.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> would hold good also for the opposition between structures of horizontality and verticality that are at work in languWhat </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">allows us to proceed in each "moment," the specular malee-up self-reflecting (stratifiable) organization of the discourse. An organization that maintains, among other things, the break between what is perceptible and what is intelligible, and thus rnaintains the submission, subordination, and exploitation of the "feminine</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">." This language work would thus attempt to thwart any manipulation of discourse that would also leave discourse intact. Not, necessarily, in the utterance, but in its </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">autol()gical presuppositions.</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Its function would thus be to cast phallocentrism, phallocratism, loose from its moorings in order to return the masculine to its own language, leaving open the possibility of a different language. Which means that the masculine would no longer be "everything."</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> That it could no longer, all by itself, define, circumvene, circumscribe, the properties of any thing right to define every value-including abusive privilege of appropriation-would no longer belong to.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">“She” is indefinitely other in herself, “she” is doubtless, whimisical, incomprehensible, agitated and her language moves in all directions. There appears to be no coherence of any meaning. She contradicts, and confuses. You cannot trap a women in what they mean, you cannot make them clarify what they mean, because they are everywhere in discourse while the masculine is still stuck in one spot. Feminine language uses a multiplicity of levels and meaning.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Luce Irigaray 1977 (This Sex Which is Not One, Chapter 2 “This Sex Which Is Not One”)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">“She" is indefinitely other in herself This is doubtless why is said to be whimsical, incomprehensible, agitated, capricious</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This Sex Which Is Not One</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">. not to mention her language, in which "she" sets off in all directions leaving "him" unable to discern the coherence of any meaning</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Hers are contradictory words, somewhat mad from the standpoint of reason, inaudible for whoever listens to them with ready-made grids, with a fully elaborated code in hand. For in what she says, too, at least when she dares</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, woman is constantly touching herself. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">She steps ever so slightly aside from herself with a murmur, an exclamation, a whisper, a sentence left unfinished</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> . . . When she returns, it is to set off again from elsewhere. From another point pleasure, or of pain. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">One would have to listen with another ear. as if hearing an ojembracing ~ in order not to become congealed in them. For if "she" says something, it is not, it is already no longer, identical with what she means. What she says is never identical with anything, moreover; rather, it is contiguous. It touches (upon). And when it strays too far from that proximity, she breaks off and starts over at "zero":</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> her body-sex. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">is useless, then</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">, to trap women in the exact definition of what they mean, to make them repeat (themselves) so that it will be clear; they are already elsewhere in that discursive machinery where you expected to surprise them. They have returned within themselves. Which must not be understood in the same way as within yourself.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> They do not have the interiority that you have, the one you perhaps suppose they have. Within themselves means </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">within the intimacy oJthat touch.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> And if you ask them insistently about, they can only reply: Thus what they desire is same time everything. more and something else organ, for you give to them. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Their desire is interpreted, and as a sort of insatiable hunger, a voracity that will swallow you whole.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Whereas it really involves a different economy 28 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">29 </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sex Which Is One</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> more than anything else, one that upsets the linearity of a project, undermines the goal-object of a desire, diffuses the polarization toward a single pleasure, disconcerts fidelity to a single discourse </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">... Must this multiplicity of female desire and female language be understood as shards, scattered remnants of a violated sexuality? A sexuality denied? question has no simple answer. The rejection, the exclusion of a female imaginary certainly puts woman in the position of experiencing herself only fragmentarily</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, in the little-structured margins of a dominant Qlogy, as waste, or excess, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">what is left of a mirror invested by the (masculine) "subject" to reflect himself, to copy himself Moreover, the role of "femininity" is prescribed by this masculine specula{riza)tion and corresponds scarcely at all to woman's desire, which may be recovered only in secret, in hiding, with anxiety and guilt.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> But if the female imaginary were to deploy itself, if it bring itself into play otherwise than as scraps, uncollected debri. s, would it represent itself, even so, in the form of </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">one</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> universe? Would it even be volume instead of surface? No. Not </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">unless it were understood, yet as a privileging of the maternal over the feminine. Of a phallic maternal, at that. Closed in upon the jealous possession of its valued product. Rivaling man in his esteem for productive excess</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">. In such a</span> //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">race for power, woman loses the uniqueness of her pleasure. By dosing herself off as volume, she renounces the pleasure that she gets from the nonsuture of her lips</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">:</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> she is undoubtedly a mother, but a mother; the was assigned to her by mythologies long ago. Granting her a certain social power to the extent that she is reduced, with her own complicity, to sexual impotence. (Re-)</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">discovering herself, for a woman, thus could only signify the possibility of sacrificing no one of her pleasures</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> to other</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">, of identifying herself with none of them in particular, of never being simply one. A sort of expanding universe to which no limits could be fixed and which would not be incoherence nonetheless-nor that polymorphous perversion of the child</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> in which the erogenous zones would lie waiting to be regrouped under the primacy of the phallus. Woman always remains several, but she is kept from dispersion because the other is already within her and is autoerotically familiar to her. Which 'is not to that she appropriates the other for herself, that she reduces it to her own property. Ownership and property are doubtless quite foreign to the feminine. At least sexually. But not </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">nearness.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Nearness so pronounced that it makes all discrimination ofidentity, and thus all forms of property, impossible. Woman derives pleasure from is </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">so near that she cannot have it, nor have</span>// <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: HiddenHorzOCR;">herse~f </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">She herself enters into a ceaseless exchange of herself with the other without any possibility of identifying either. This puts into question all prevailing economies: their calculations are irremediably stymied by woman's pleasure, as it increases indefinitely from its passage in and through the other</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">River Tam destroys the phallogocentric order, she destroys a patriarchal system, and she embodies feminine discourse to allow the destruction of the oppression of the feminine. She creates a resistance to western systems of discourse and thought. To speak of River Tam is to communicate the unspeakable of the masculine system. Those who utilize this help break down through multiplicity and the fluidity of women’s language, the binary opposition and fixed meanings of masculine discourse.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Buckman, 08 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Allison R (From the essay Much Madness is Divinest Sense, Book-Investigating Firefly and Serenity: Science Fiction on the Fronteir)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, although Mal only hears Simon’s response, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">viewers are granted knowledge the captain and doctor do not possess, and this knowledge questions their readings off River</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">. The camera pans out of the infirmary and moves down a corridor as River and Simon each speak in voiceover:</span> //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">River: Two by two. Simon: I still don’t know what the government was trying to do with her… River: Hands of blue. Simon: So I have no idea if they succeeded. River’s voice overlaps Simon’s speech: Two by two</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (The camera tracks in towards River in an upright fetal position in the corner of her room, muttering, ‘hands of blue…) </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Simon is the author of River’s narrative at this point, constructing her as pre-symbolic</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">(and thus lacking the subjectivity gained through language) and as a victim to be cured;</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the visuals seem to support this view. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">However, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Whedon</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (director and co-writer of this episode) </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">cuts from River to an Alliance cruiser and two unknown men for the last scene. They ‘are looking for a girl—this girl.’ Whedon cuts to a shot of the blue hands of both men, one of whom is holding River’s picture, thus substantiating River’s discourse not as lunacy but as an articulation of danger</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">; it also gives the viewer more information than either Simon or Mal, who are shown to be lacking in their understanding of River and her subjectivity</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">. An additional example of this gradual re-visioning of the traditional patriarchal narrative comes from ‘Bushwhacked’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (1.3</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">). River intuits that the crew of the spaceship they encounter has been slaughtered before Serenity even docks with the ship. Simon does not understand her talk of ghosts and screaming, although the narrative is structured so that viewers later understand River’s prescience</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Viewers again are enabled to put the pieces together more quickly than the crew due to the structure of narrative and cinematography. We also see the failure of Mal’s vision in ‘Safe,’ when he orders Simon to take a walk with his sister: ‘Don’t worry. We won’t leave without you.’ </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">When</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Shepherd Book is critically wounded and Simon and River are kidnapped, the crew must leave without them, though they later return. As in these examples, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">our understanding of River gradually increases, as does that of the crew. However, the audience continues to be placed in a position of greater knowledge, enabling us to identify with River and more quickly understand her gifts. Although Simon labels River a paranoid schizophrenic</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> in ‘Safe,’ viewers are enabled to realize </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">River’s subjectivity goes beyond this label as well as Simon’s understanding, thus undercutting Simon’s authority just as Mal’s has been undercut: neither the man of science nor the man of action is able to understand River fully</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">While we may initially believe Simon’s diagnoses of his sister, when we look again we see that what seemed to be nonsense in River’s discourse made perfect sense</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (see notes 1 and 2). In ‘Ariel’ (1.9), for instance, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the crew reads River’s slashing of Jayne with a knife as a mark of her violent instability. Mal asks if River is ‘getting worse,’ and Simon nods. By the end of the episode, however, she is justified in her attack on Jayne by his betrayal. Her attack is not only a symbolic erasure of those who threaten her</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Jayne is wearing his Alliance-associated ‘Blue Sun’ t-shirt14),</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">but is also an indication of her non-linear understanding of reality. In addition to being tuned in to Jayne’s betrayal, she forecasts several events, including the presence of the men with blue hands. These elements enable the deconstruction of the male gaze and its authority as well as strengthening River as subject</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">While the possibility exists for a simple, traditional, sexist representation of River as disabled madwoman (see note 9), instead, she is represented as a Cassandra figure with knowledge that is unacknowledged: the audience and then the crew gradually come to realize that River is not insane but gifted</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">15. Simon begins to acknowledge this in ‘Safe,’ when </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">River is able to tell the story of a girl made mute through trauma. When asked how River could know Ruby’s story, Simon attempts to explain: ‘Um, uh, my sister… She’s very good at…’ While he seems to have some inkling of her abilities, Simon is unable to put his sister’s skills into words; they still seem to be beyond his understandings, or at least his articulation</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">It is understandable that Simon would have difficulty expressing River’s talents, since, through her representation, she enacts resistance to the Western system of language and logic; this system is anchored in patriarchy and may be referred to as masculine discourse 16. To speak of River is to communicate the unspeakable within a patriarchal culture; rather than taking up a masculine position—the only position for a woman to inhabit if she is to speak within a system that denies her subjectivity17—River takes up the feminine position and thus refuses the former. As a result, she is an exemplar of l’écriture feminine, or feminine discourse18. This mode of communication and the pleasure</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (jouissance) </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">enabled by it is unrepresentable in (masculine) language since it disrupts language and representation. Binary oppositions, fixed meaning, and the ‘linear flow of language and narrative’ (Klages) are broken down through the multiplicity and fluidity of women’s language: the woman who utilizes this means towards subjectivity does not make (phallogocentric) sense</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">The bodies of hysterical women, Cixous argues, write l’écriture feminine</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, enacting what the conscious mind cannot express. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">So, too, for River: Simon tells Inara that River still can’t tell him what they did to her. However, River has nightmares, enactments of the unspeakable by her unconscious mind. Meaning also seeps out through her seemingly incomprehensible language and action. Her desire, like that of the women of l’écriture feminine, is ‘often interpreted, and feared, as a sort of insatiable hunger, a voracity that will swallow you whole’</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Irigaray 30</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">). Irigaray argues this woman is indefinitely other in herself. This is doubtless why she is said to be whimsical, incomprehensible, agitated, capricious…not to mention her language, in which she sets off in all directions leaving ‘him’ unable to discern the coherence of any meaning. Hers are contradictory words, somewhat mad from the standpoint of reason, inaudible for whoever listens to them with ready-made grids, with a fully elaborated code in hand</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. (28-9) </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">She does not speak in linear fashion; she collapses the boundaries of speech and text, order and chaos, sense and nonsense (Klages). This woman is River19. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Through this construction of River and Simon’s construction as a son of privilege and man of science, Whedon also criticizes the patriarchal Alliance. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">When her brother steps into the role of doctor, a role that emphasizes rational, linear discourse, River is afraid of his actions, and, as I have shown, he often dismisses her non-linear, intuitive perception of the world around her</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Due to his background, including his former Alliance affiliation, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Simon represents the patriarchal system that experimented upon her. Within this system, River is an object, a guinea pig, a weapon to be wielded. However, she undercuts the authorship of her being by the male hero (Mal), her brother, and that of the mercenary Jayne, seeing through the latter’s lies and betrayal</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. She even ‘edits’ Shepherd Book’s Bible, taking out what doesn’t make literal sense to her (‘Jaynestown,’ 1.7) Ironically, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">River is like the Bible—she ‘doesn’t make sense,’ and her brother attempts to fix her as she attempts to fix the Bible.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> As Book says about the Bible, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">the crew of Serenity must come to have faith in River, which they do by the end</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> of ‘Objects in Space’ (1.14). </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Whedon provides another blow to masculine discourse through his resistance to sexualizing River. Since River is seventeen, she is able to function both as girl and woman. She is not inscribed as romantic object for any of the characters</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Juabal Early’s suggestion to Simon (‘Objects in Space’) that River is secretly sleeping with one of the crewmembers seems absurd</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">. River is not sexualized by the camera nor the narrative</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> as are Kaylee and Inara20. Her visual construction is waifish; she primarily wars oversized skirts, long sweaters, and dresses. She often goes barefoot, maintaining her tactile contact with the ship. Significantly, at least to the discussion of narrative and cinematographic discourse, River’s point of view is privileged in one of the most touching—and revealing—episodes: ‘Objects in Space,’ the last of the series. Here is a reversal of the first episode, in which Mal’s point of view was established; however, River’s point of view is not undercut. In this episode, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">our sympathies are aligned with River</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. As discussed, throughout the series viewers are allowed to know more about her than the others characters do; </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">while we are a step ahead of the other characters, we are a step behind River.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> This episode does not change the pattern—whether or not viewers temporarily believe River has become one with the ship21. At the beginning of the episode, River wanders the corridors of Serenity, hearing the unspoken reality behind the pleasant banter of the crew. As they speak, the camera depicts them from River’s perspective: they seem to turn toward her and speak their inner thoughts, granting viewers </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">a visualization of River’s ability to read thoughts and establishing identification with her through subjective camera. Although they do not consciously voice their dis-ease with her, she is able to read it in their minds</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. She hears her brother bemoaning his loss of Alliance security in his rescue of River; surprisingly, she also hears Book vehemently stating that he doesn’t ‘give half a hump’ if she’s ‘innocent or not’ while Jayne proclaims he betrayed the Tams to the Alliance out of greed. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">She comes down the stairs into a cargo bay covered in autumn leaves and picks a stick up from the ground.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ‘</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">It’s just an object,’ she states, ‘it doesn’t mean what you think.’ The stick, we find, is actually a loaded gun with the safety off, and it is pointed in the direction of crewmembers</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">We again are given River’s perspective; we initially see the gun as she does. Like the gun, river doesn’t ‘mean anything.’ Her essence isn’t predetermined: she doesn’t have to be the paranoid schizophrenic her brother has labeled her—or the victim, the aggressor</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, or…. It is this indeterminacy that allows the temporary possibility that she has indeed melted into the ship, become Serenity. Of course, she’s actually buying time for the crew to work against bounty hunter Jubal Early. But she is able to read his secrets, and the cinematography again supports her point of view: we get quick cuts from the ‘reality’ of Early to River’s visualization of his mind. River contests the narrative of both crew and Early, rewriting herself into action, plotting a scenario for escape of both crew and herself, and speaking truth to Early’s proclamation of allegiance to a code he actually does not keep. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">River cannot be encapsulated by traditional employments of women as lunatics or witches. She is far too complicated, and her excesses enable the transgression of these limits.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> While the community in ‘Safe’ sees her as witch, the community of Serenity eventually moves beyond its fear and misunderstanding and is rewarded. While </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Mal’s crew</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> struggles to understand her, the indeterminacy allowed by character, story, and cinematography </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">eventually</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">allows them to re-evaluate their judgment and understand she is unknowable, unthinkable, unimaginable</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. For instance, while Jayne cannot understand her indeterminacy when Mal states that </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">River ‘knows things she shouldn’t’. Things she couldn’t,’ (‘Objectus in Space’) and thus asks, ‘What, are you—are you sayin’ she’s a witch?’ the others are able to go beyond defining her simplistically as madwoman or witch. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At the end of ‘Objects in Space,’ Wash and Zoe have a conversation about River in which they seem to have accepted her indeterminacy, although that means giving up some of their own power in the form of control: </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Wash: Little River just gets more colorful by the moment. What’ll she do next? Zoe: Either blow us all up or rub soup in our hair. It’s a toss-up. Wash: I hope she does the soup thing. It’s always a hoot, and we don’t all die from it. River challenges not only the male gaze and the heroic monomyth through her embodiment of l’écriture feminine, but also those who represent a ‘logical’ extension to the violence of patriarchal society </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(represented by the Alliance, the Patron, Jayne, Niska, Jubal Early, and the Reavers—see note 21). As in Joss Whedon’s other series, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">what truly distinguishes River is the force of community. Through community, her physical ability and estrangement from others is developed into a force that illustrates the shortcomings of masculine discourse and de-centers it, opening up spaces for revision. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Unlike River, the outcast Reavers remain victims, through vicious. River will sacrifice her safety and happiness for that of the crew if necessary, becoming, for instance, River the Reaver Slayer in Serenity. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">She makes her decisions from a communal perspective rather than an isolated one and uses violence only to protect the crew and herself</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Whedon’s titular character Buffy is also part of a movement in which women are increasingly represented as (s)heroes rather than damsels in distress, but </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">River takes the deconstruction of traditional ideology even further. She is not simply an alternative universe reconstruction of Buffy; she is far more of an outsider than even Buffy—in whom her circle of friends quickly place their trust. She stands further outside the system of masculine discourse than Buffy and is more easily perceived as damaged, as hysterical, as dangerous to the community</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Like Buffy, however, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">she is able to question both simplistic binaries and traditional emplotments of women, as well as story, because of her liminal location and self-authorship.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PAGE 45</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The use of feminist science fiction narratives allows for the re-imagining of gender and identity, to open up for a new avenue of resistance against masculine discourse</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Wolmark 94 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Jenny, has a MA at Leeds University and is an Editor of the Journal of Gender Studies, “Aliens and Others: Science Fiction, Feminism, and Postmodernism” Pg. 21-25 **Note: SF = Science Fiction[CR])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The intersection of feminism and science fiction has produced a similar emphasis on provisionality, in that it has resulted in the production of texts who recognizable generic boundaries and continuities are consistently undermined by their subject matter, as Anne Cranny-Francis has indicated in her study of what she calls ‘feminist genre fiction’:</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Feminist theory and the experiential knowledge of women went into the making of feminist SFand the result was the remaking of a literary genre</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, a fundamental investigation of the conventions of that genre</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">, both for their literary or narrative implications and for their embedded ideological significances(s). The ‘investigation of the genre has been informed by more than feminist theory</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">and experiential knowledge, however, as has already been suggested: the</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">intersections between</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">science fiction and postmodernism, as well as those between feminism and postmodernism, and</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">feminism and science fiction, have contributed to the complex accounts of gender and identity</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">offered in feminist SF.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The fragmented and decentered narrative of Joanna Russ’s //The Female Man// (1975; 1985) is a notable example of a text that explores the pleasures of dissonance and incongruity that occur when gender and genre are in conflict</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Russ dispenses the necessity for either a single plot or a specific time sequence by means of a narrative that shifts continuously between parallel universes, and between the four different female characters who inhabit them</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. Joanna, Janet, Jael, and Jeannine are all aspects of ‘Everywoman’ but they are also stubbornly themselves: ‘I said goodbye and went off with Laur, I, Janet; I also watched them go, I, Joanna; moreover I went off to show Jael the city, I, Jeannine, I Jael, I myself. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye. Thus, they, and</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">the narrative</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, remain fragmented, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">disrupting the familiar discursive practices of science fiction in a playful and witty way, and enabling Russ to explore the possibility</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">suggested by Mary Gentile</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">that women ‘must begin to see themselves as in a network of multiple possibilities, multiple perspectives, multiple identities, where there is no clear split between “I” and “not-I”, but rather a range or continuum of existence</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.’ The instability of the genre is emphasized by the way in which feminist science fiction, foregrounds female desire, and makes reference to other genres, particularly that of romance, in order to do so. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Feminist SF challenges the way in which female desire is subordinated to the privileged position accorded to male desire</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">within the genre, as</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Russ</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> herself</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">points out</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">in a discussion of</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">the work of one male SF writer, whose novel is ‘one long proof that, for women, heterosexuality is so much physically pleasanter than lesbianism that it binds a woman not only to sexual pleasure but to one man in particular and to a whole ideology of male dominance.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">’ In opposition to this subordination of female desire, the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">narrative strategies of feminist SF</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">have developed to ‘</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">provide women with possible scenarios for their own future development’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, as Pamela Sargent put it in the introduction to her pioneering collection of science fiction stories by women, //Women of Wonder//. These strategies recognize what Joanna Russ calls ‘the whole difficulty of science fiction, of genuine speculation: how to get away from traditional assumptions which are nothing more than traditional strait-jackets.’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Feminist SF is concerned with the complexities and ambiguities of contemporary definitions and representations of gender</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, and this concern places it within the terrain marked out by the contradictory relations between science fiction, feminism, and postmodernism. Although it is rare for feminist science fiction </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">narratives</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">to engage in narrative experimentation of the kind that is familiar in postmodern texts, they </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">are nevertheless fully implicated in the complicitous and contradictory processes of postmodernism described by Hutcheon</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. Feminist science fiction is situated within a popular cultural genre which itself has an uneasy relationship with postmodernism, but</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">it uses the mechanisms of the genre against it, in order to question the way in which science fiction narratives represent the gendered self. It utilises the genre’s preoccupation with the future in order to suggest that the construction of subjectivity and identity is a process, and as such is always incomplete</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. As Stuart Hall says of cultural identity, it is ‘a matter of “becoming” as well as being. It belongs to the future as well as to the past.’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The notion of a unified, integrated self is made as problematic in feminist science fiction</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">as it is in more explicitly postmodern texts. The territory of unresolved contradictions inhabited the postmodernism has been described in other terms by Samuel Delany, who uses the term ‘paraspace’, as distinct from ‘subspace’, to define the relations that exist between the narrative space of science fiction and that of ‘naturalistic’ fiction. A paraspace does not exist in a hierarchical relation – at least not in a simple and easy hierarchical relation – to the narrative’s ‘real’, or ordinary, space. What goes on in one subverts the other; what goes on in the other subverts the one. They change the weights all the time, throughout their stories. So calling it a subspace – with the prefix’s strong suggestion of subordination – is wrong. A paraaspace, or even an alternative space, with its much weaker – and more problematic – question of position and troubling supplementarity, is more to the point. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The notion of paraspace also provides a useful way of thinking about the way in which feminist science fiction exists within a gendered space of ‘troubling supplementarity’. It is a space in which subjectivity and experience, gender and identity, can be re-imagined in opposition to, and in recognition of, the dominant gendered discourses</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. The ‘paraspace’ within which feminist SF exists corresponds to that ‘elsewhere’ described by Teresa de Lauretis, which consists in ‘spaces in the margins of hegemonic discourses, social spaces carved in the interstices of institutions and in the chinks and cracks of the power-knowledge apparati’. De Lauretis uses the notion of an ‘elsewhere’ in a specific context, that of the need to ‘theorize gender beyond the limits of “sexual difference”, and the constraints that such a notion has to come to impose on feminist critical thought.’ The emphasis on sexual difference, and its limitations, are present in Alice Jardine’s discussion of the construction of the feminine in //Gynesi//s//,// in which she suggests that the rethinking provoked by the crisis of legitimacy in the grand narratives of western culture has opened up an ‘elsewhere’ or a space that is specifically coded as feminine, because it has involved, above all, a reincorporation and a reconceptualization of that which has been the master narrative’s own ‘nonknowledge’, what has eluded them, what has engulfed them. This other-than-themselves is almost always a ‘space’ of some kind (over which the narrative has lost control), and this space has been coded as //feminine//, as //woman.// Jardine argues that</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">the feminine is both defined by and defines the marginal spaces which emerge as the binary divisions of western culture begin to collapse, and this marginalization enables it to subvert the dominant masculinist cultural order</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. However,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">the radical potential of the marginal is undermined here by the way in which the feminine is equated with ‘woman’, and because the differences between women cannot be recognized in this equation, the female subject becomes a unified rather than a contradictory, and therefore multiple, subject</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. The female subject is thus defined solely by its marginality, rather than by, and in, the contradictory discourses of the dominant culture. In contrast, de Lauretis argues that it is gender rather than the feminine, that is constructed in the social space that is ‘elsewhere’, and that the subject is therefore constituted in gender, to be sure, though not by sexual difference alone, but rather across languages and cultural representations; a subject en-gendered in the experiencing of race and class, as well as sexual, relations; a subject, therefore, not unified but rather multiple, and not so much divided as contradicted. The distinction discussed above, between the subject as gendered or as female, finds a parallel in the distinction that is made between ‘feminine’ writing and feminist writing, and all of these different positions become relevant when considering the nature of the cultural intervention that feminist SF is making. Although attempts to define</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">feminine writing</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">are problematic, its primary intention is to c</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">hallenge and disrupt the dominant discourse by means of its experimental, fluid and non-linear qualities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. In the work of Luce Irigaray and Helen Cixous in particular, the practice of feminine writing is defined by the female body: feminine writing becomes the embodiment of woman and of female sexuality. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Feminine texts are defined as oppositional because of the way in which they rupture the semantic and syntactical structures of the dominant culture</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">; similarly for Julia Kristeva, this means that</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">women’s writing is identified with the ‘explosion of social codes: with revolutionary movements’</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, in other words, with the avant-garde. However, these arguments are forced to ignore the existence of texts that are resolutely realist and conformist, but which are equally oppositional because they contain an explicit critique of the unequal power relations experienced by women within the dominant culture. Feminist science fiction can clearly be situated here: like feminism itself,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">It exists in a contradictory relationship to the hegemonic discourses to which it is opposed but on which it draws, and this is the reason for its oppositional capacity to open up new spaces for alternative representations of gender that these spaces, conceived of in terms of an ‘elsewhere’ or a ‘paraspace’, cannot be coded as ‘feminine’ or as ‘woman’. The texts that operate within these spaces can, however, be considered as feminist, because they destabilize and rupture the dominant ideology of gender by confronting the contradictions of gender representation, rather than assuming the existence of a unitary subject that is ‘feminine’ or ‘masculine’. </span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative]]Negative</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Topicality]]Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Topicality-Increase=Preexisting]]Increase=Preexisting</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Cite">A-Interpretation</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Cite">Increase requires making an already existing program greater </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Buckley 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Jeremiah, Attorney, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, the court said that the ordinary meaning of the word “increase” is “to make something greater,” which it believed should not “be limited to cases in which a company raises the rate that an individual has previously been charged.” 435 F.3d at 1091. Yet the definition offered by the Ninth Circuit compels the opposite conclusion. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Because “increase” means “to make something greater,” there must necessarily have been an existing premium,__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> to which Edo’s actual premium may be compared, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to determine whether an “increase” occurred</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. Congress could have provided that “ad-verse action” in the insurance context means charging an amount greater than the optimal premium, but instead chose to define adverse action in terms of an “increase.” That def-initional choice must be respected, not ignored. See Colautti v. Franklin, 439 U.S. 379, 392-93 n.10 (1979) (“[a] defin-ition which declares what a term ‘means’ . . . excludes any meaning that is not stated”). Next, the Ninth Circuit reasoned that because the Insurance Prong includes the words “existing or applied for,” Congress intended that an “increase in any charge” for insurance must “apply to all insurance transactions – from an initial policy of insurance to a renewal of a long-held policy.” 435 F.3d at 1091. This interpretation reads the words “exist-ing or applied for” in isolation. Other types of adverse action described in the Insurance Prong apply only to situations where a consumer had an existing policy of insurance, such as a “cancellation,” “reduction,” or “change” in insurance. Each of these forms of adverse action presupposes an already-existing policy, and </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">under usual canons of statutory construction the term “increase</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">” also </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">should be construed to apply to increases of an already-existing policy</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. See Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U.S. 88, 101 (2004) (“a phrase gathers meaning from the words around it”) (citation omitted).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B-Violation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff creates a program not currently in development</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C-Standards</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1-Limits-The aff explodes the topic destroying predictability</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2-Ground-There is little literature on new technology and ideas related to space, and most discussions of space are only hypothetical.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">D-T is a voter for fairness, education, and jurisdiction. Evaluate T under Competing Interpretations</span>**















==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks]]Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Anthropocentrism]]Anthropocentrism</span>=== 



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff is rooted in anthropocentrism—the desire to explore posits nature as a disposable resource in order to spread the ideology of human-centered values.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Monbiot 10 — George Monbiot, Columnist for the </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Guardian</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, has held visiting fellowships or professorships at the universities of Oxford (environmental policy), Bristol (philosophy), Keele (politics), Oxford Brookes (planning), and East London (environmental science), 2010 (“After this 60-year feeding frenzy, Earth itself has become disposable,” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Guardian</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, January 4th, Available Online at[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/jan/04/standard-of-living-spending-consumerism]], Accessed 07-26-2011)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Who said this? "All the evidence shows that beyond the sort of standard of living which Britain has now achieved, extra growth does not automatically translate into human welfare and happiness." Was it a) the boss of Greenpeace, b) the director of the New Economics Foundation, or c) an anarchist planning the next climate camp? None of the above: d) the former head of the Confederation of British Industry, who currently runs the Financial Services Authority. In an interview broadcast last Friday, Lord Turner brought the consumer society's most subversive observation into the mainstream.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In our hearts most of us know it is true, but we live as if it were not. Progress is measured by the speed at which we destroy the conditions that sustain life. Governments are deemed to succeed or fail by how well they make money go round, regardless of whether it serves any useful purpose. They regard it as a sacred duty to encourage the country's most revolting spectacle: the annual feeding frenzy in which shoppers queue all night, then stampede into the shops, elbow, trample and sometimes fight to be the first to carry off some designer junk which will go into landfill before the sales next year. The madder the orgy, the greater the triumph of economic management.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As the Guardian revealed today, the British government is now split over product placement in television programmes: if it implements the policy proposed by Ben Bradshaw, the culture secretary, plots will revolve around chocolates and cheeseburgers, and advertisements will be impossible to filter, perhaps even to detect. Bradshaw must know that this indoctrination won't make us happier, wiser, greener or leaner; but it will make the television companies £140m a year.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Though we know they aren't the same, we can't help conflating growth and wellbeing. Last week, for instance, the Guardian carried the headline "UK standard of living drops below 2005 level". But the story had nothing to do with our standard of living. Instead it reported that per capita gross domestic product is lower than it was in 2005. GDP is a measure of economic activity, not standard of living. But the terms are confused so often that journalists now treat them as synonyms. The low retail sales of previous months were recently described by this paper as "bleak" and "gloomy". High sales are always "good news", low sales are always "bad news", even if the product on offer is farmyard porn. I believe it's time that the Guardian challenged this biased reporting.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Those who still wish to conflate welfare and GDP argue that high consumption by the wealthy improves the lot of the world's poor. Perhaps, but it's a very clumsy and inefficient instrument. After some 60 years of this feast, 800 million people remain permanently hungry. Full employment is a less likely prospect than it was before the frenzy began.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In a new paper published in Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, Sir Partha Dasgupta makes the point that the problem with gross domestic product is the gross bit. There are no deductions involved: all economic activity is accounted as if it were of positive value. Social harm is added to, not subtracted from, social good. A train crash which generates £1bn worth of track repairs, medical bills and funeral costs is deemed by this measure to be as beneficial as an uninterrupted service which generates £1bn in ticket sales.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Most important, no deduction is made to account for the depreciation of natural capital: the overuse or degradation of soil, water, forests, fisheries and the atmosphere. Dasgupta shows that the total wealth of a nation can decline even as its GDP is growing. In Pakistan, for instance, his rough figures suggest that while GDP per capita grew by an average of 2.2% a year between 1970 and 2000, total wealth declined by 1.4%. Amazingly, there are still no official figures that seek to show trends in the actual wealth of nations.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">You can say all this without fear of punishment or persecution. But in its practical effects, consumerism is a totalitarian system: it permeates every aspect of our lives. Even our dissent from the system is packaged up and sold to us in the form of anti-consumption consumption, like the "I'm not a plastic bag", which was supposed to replace disposable carriers but was mostly used once or twice before it fell out of fashion, or like the lucrative new books on how to live without money.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">George Orwell and Aldous Huxley proposed different totalitarianisms: one sustained by fear, the other in part by greed. Huxley's nightmare has come closer to realisation. In the nurseries of the Brave New World, "the voices were adapting future demand to future industrial supply. 'I do love flying,' they whispered, 'I do love flying, I do love having new clothes … old clothes are beastly … We always throw away old clothes. Ending is better than mending, ending is better than mending'". Underconsumption was considered "positively a crime against society". But there was no need to punish it. At first the authorities machine-gunned the Simple Lifers who tried to opt out, but that didn't work. Instead they used "the slower but infinitely surer methods" of conditioning: immersing people in advertising slogans from childhood. A totalitarianism driven by greed eventually becomes self-enforced.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Let me give you an example of how far this self-enforcement has progressed. In a recent comment thread, a poster expressed an idea that I have now heard a few times. "We need to get off this tiny little world and out into the wider universe … if it takes the resources of the planet to get us out there, so be it. However we use them, however we utilise the energy of the sun and the mineral wealth of this world and the others of our planetary system, either we do use them to expand and explore other worlds, and become something greater than a mud-grubbing semi-sentient animal, or we die as a species."</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is the consumer society taken to its logical extreme: the Earth itself becomes disposable. This idea appears to be more acceptable in some circles than any restraint on pointless spending. That we might hop, like the aliens in the film Independence Day, from one planet to another, consuming their resources then moving on, is considered by these people a more realistic and desirable prospect than changing the way in which we measure wealth.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anthropocentrism causes involuntary extinction—it divorces our relationship with the natural world and makes ecocide on a cosmic scale inevitable.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gottlieb 94 — Roger S. Gottlieb, Professor of Humanities at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Brandeis University, 1994 (“Ethics and Trauma: Levinas, Feminism, and Deep Ecology,” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Crosscurrents: A Journal of Religion and Intellectual Life</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Summer, Available Online at [[http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm]], Accessed 07-26-2011)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Here I will at least begin in agreement with Levinas. As he rejects an ethics proceeding on the basis of self-interest, so I believe the anthropocentric perspectives of conservation or liberal environmentalism cannot take us far enough. Our relations with nonhuman nature are poisoned and not just because we have set up feedback loops that already lead to mass starvations, skyrocketing environmental disease rates, and devastation of natural resources. The problem with ecocide is not just that it hurts human beings. Our uncaring violence also violates the very ground of our being, our natural body, our home. Such violence is done not simply to the other – as if the rainforest, the river, the atmosphere, the species made extinct are totally different from ourselves. Rather, we have crucified ourselves-in-relation-to-the-other, fracturing a mode of being in which self and other can no more be conceived as fully in isolation from each other than can a mother and a nursing child. We are that child, and nonhuman nature is that mother. If this image seems too maudlin, let us remember that other lactating women can feed an infant, but we have only one earth mother. What moral stance will be shaped by our personal sense that we are poisoning ourselves, our environment, and so many kindred spirits of the air, water, and forests? To begin, we may see this tragic situation as setting the limits to Levinas's perspective. The other which is nonhuman nature is not simply known by a "trace," nor is it something of which all knowledge is necessarily instrumental. This other is inside us as well as outside us. We prove it with every breath we take, every bit of food we eat, every glass of water we drink. We do not have to find shadowy traces on or in the faces of trees or lakes, topsoil or air: we are made from them. Levinas denies this sense of connection with nature. Our "natural" side represents for him a threat of simple consumption or use of the other, a spontaneous response which must be obliterated by the power of ethics in general (and, for him in particular, Jewish religious law(23) ). A "natural" response lacks discipline; without the capacity to heed the call of the other, unable to sublate the self's egoism. Worship of nature would ultimately result in an "everything-is-permitted" mentality, a close relative of Nazism itself. For Levinas, to think of people as "natural" beings is to assimilate them to a totality, a category or species which makes no room for the kind of individuality required by ethics.(24) He refers to the "elemental" or the "there is" as unmanaged, unaltered, "natural" conditions or forces that are essentially alien to the categories and conditions of moral life.(25) One can only lament that Levinas has read nature -- as to some extent (despite his intentions) he has read selfhood -- through the lens of masculine culture. It is precisely our sense of belonging to nature as system, as interaction, as interdependence, which can provide the basis for an ethics appropriate to the trauma of ecocide. As cultural feminism sought to expand our sense of personal identity to a sense of inter-identification with the human other, so this ecological ethics would expand our personal and species sense of identity into an inter-identification with the natural world. Such a realization can lead us to an ethics appropriate to our time, a dimension of which has come to be known as "deep ecology."(26) For this ethics, we do not begin from the uniqueness of our human selfhood, existing against a taken-for-granted background of earth and sky. Nor is our body somehow irrelevant to ethical relations, with knowledge of it reduced always to tactics of domination. Our knowledge does not assimilate the other to the same, but reveals and furthers the continuing dance of interdependence. And our ethical motivation is neither rationalist system nor individualistic self-interest, but a sense of connection to all of life. The deep ecology sense of self-realization goes beyond the modern Western sense of "self" as an isolated ego striving for hedonistic gratification. . . . . Self, in this sense, is experienced as integrated with the whole of nature.(27) Having gained distance and sophistication of perception [from the development of science and political freedoms] we can turn and recognize who we have been all along. . . . we are our world knowing itself. We can relinquish our separateness. We can come home again -- and participate in our world in a richer, more responsible and poignantly beautiful way.(28) Ecological ways of knowing nature are necessarily participatory. [This] knowledge is ecological and plural, reflecting both the diversity of natural ecosystems and the diversity in cultures that nature-based living gives rise to. The recovery of the feminine principle is based on inclusiveness. It is a recovery in nature, woman and man of creative forms of being and perceiving. In nature it implies seeing nature as a live organism. In woman it implies seeing women as productive and active. Finally, in men the recovery of the feminine principle implies a relocation of action and activity to create life-enhancing, not life-reducing and life-threatening societies.(29) In this context, the knowing ego is not set against a world it seeks to control, but one of which it is a part. To continue the feminist perspective, the mother knows or seeks to know the child's needs. Does it make sense to think of her answering the call of the child in abstraction from such knowledge? Is such knowledge necessarily domination? Or is it essential to a project of care, respect and love, precisely because the knower has an intimate, emotional connection with the known?(30) Our ecological vision locates us in such close relation with our natural home that knowledge of it is knowledge of ourselves. And this is not, contrary to Levinas's fear, reducing the other to the same, but a celebration of a larger, more inclusive, and still complex and articulated self.(31) The noble and terrible burden of Levinas's individuated responsibility for sheer existence gives way to a different dream, a different prayer: Being rock, being gas, being mist, being Mind, Being the mesons traveling among the galaxies with the speed of light, You have come here, my beloved one. . . . You have manifested yourself as trees, as grass, as butterflies, as single-celled beings, and as chrysanthemums; but the eyes with which you looked at me this morning tell me you have never died.(32) In this prayer, we are, quite simply, all in it together. And, although this new ecological Holocaust -- this creation of planet Auschwitz – is under way, it is not yet final. We have time to step back from the brink, to repair our world. But only if we see that world not as an other across an irreducible gap of loneliness and unchosen obligation, but as a part of ourselves as we are part of it, to be redeemed not out of duty, but out of love; neither for our selves nor for the other, but for us all.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is to endorse the global suicide of humanity – our total rejection of human centered agency and the continuation of human life functions as a valuable thought experiment that allows us to end the oppression of the squo.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kochi and Ordan 08 – (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How might such a standpoint of dialectical, utopian anti-humanism reconfigure a notion of action which does not simply repeat in another way the modern humanist infliction of violence, as exemplified by the plan of Hawking, or fall prey to institutional and systemic complicity in speciesist violence? While this question goes beyond what it is possible to outline in this paper, we contend that the thought experiment of global suicide helps to locate this question – the question of modern action itself – as residing at the heart of the modern environmental problem. In a sense perhaps the only way to understand what is at stake in ethical action which responds to the natural environment is to come to terms with the logical consequences of ethical action itself. The point operates then not as the end, but as the starting point of a standpoint which attempts to reconfigure our notions of action, life-value, and harm. For some, guided by the pressure of moral conscience or by a practice of harm minimisation, the appropriate response to historical and contemporary environmental destruction is that of action guided by abstention. For example, one way of reacting to mundane, everyday complicity is the attempt to abstain or opt-out of certain aspects of modern, industrial society: to not eat non-human animals, to invest ethically, to buy organic produce, to not use cars and buses, to live in an environmentally conscious commune. Ranging from small personal decisions to the establishment of parallel economies (think of organic and fair trade products as an attempt to set up a quasi-parallel economy), a typical modern form of action is that of a refusal to be complicit in human practices that are violent and destructive. Again, however, at a practical level, to what extent are such acts of nonparticipation rendered banal by their complicity in other actions? In a grand register of violence and harm the individual who abstains from eating non-human animals but still uses the bus or an airplane or electricity has only opted out of some harm causing practices and remains fully complicit with others. One response, however, which bypasses the problem of complicity and the banality of action is to take the non-participation solution to its most extreme level. In this instance, the only way to truly be non-complicit in the violence of the human heritage would be to opt-out altogether. Here, then, the modern discourse of reflection, responsibility and action runs to its logical conclusion – the global suicide of humanity – as a free-willed and ‘final solution’. While we are not interested in the discussion of the ‘method’ of the global suicide of humanity per se, one method that would be the least violent is that of humans choosing to no longer reproduce. [10] The case at point here is that the global suicide of humanity would be a moral act; it would take humanity out of the equation of life on this earth and remake the calculation for the benefit of everything nonhuman. While suicide in certain forms of religious thinking is normally condemned as something which is selfish and inflicts harm upon loved ones, the global suicide of humanity would be the highest act of altruism. That is, global suicide would involve the taking of responsibility for the destructive actions of the human species. By eradicating ourselves we end the long process of inflicting harm upon other species and offer a human-free world. If there is a form of divine intelligence then surely the human act of global suicide will be seen for what it is: a profound moral gesture aimed at redeeming humanity. Such an act is an offer of sacrifice to pay for past wrongs that would usher in a new future. Through the death of our species we will give the gift of life to others. It should be noted nonetheless that our proposal for the global suicide of humanity is based upon the notion that such a radical action needs to be voluntary and not forced. In this sense, and given the likelihood of such an action not being agreed upon, it operates as a thought experiment which may help humans to radically rethink what it means to participate in modern, moral life within the natural world. In other words, whether or not the act of global suicide takes place might well be irrelevant. What is more important is the form of critical reflection that an individual needs to go through before coming to the conclusion that the global suicide of humanity is an action that would be worthwhile. The point then of a thought experiment that considers the argument for the global suicide of humanity is the attempt to outline an anti-humanist, or non-human-centric ethics. Such an ethics attempts to take into account both sides of the human heritage: the capacity to carry out violence and inflict harm and the capacity to use moral reflection and creative social organisation to minimise violence and harm. Through the idea of global suicide such an ethics reintroduces a central question to the heart of moral reflection: To what extent is the value of the continuation of human life worth the total harm inflicted upon the life of all others? Regardless of whether an individual finds the idea of global suicide abhorrent or ridiculous, this question remains valid and relevant and will not go</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-XO]]XO</span>===