[[toc]]

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
**Hooker AC**
**The only plausible view of morality is one that best coheres with our convictions. They are the starting point for any morality.**
**Hooker 1** 
[Brad Hooker, 11-12, Ideal Code, Real World]

**Rule consequentialism is consistent with our moral convictions while also being impartial.** 
**Hooker 2** 
[Brad Hooker, 29, Ideal Code, Real World]

**And, death is bad for the person who dies—this justifies promoting existence.**
**McMahan**
[Rutgers], “Death and the Value of Life,” Ethics (1988).

**When skilled terrorists are assassinated it disrupts operations because it takes many months to train new terrorists to gain enough experience to be effective.** 
**Byman 1**
[Daniel, Ph.D in Political Science, Director for Security Studies Program and for Peace and Security Studies @ Georgetown, Associate Professor in the School of Foreign Service, Senior Fellow with the Saban Center for Middle East Policy @ Brookings Institution. Professional Staff Member for the Joint 9/11 Inquiry Staff of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. Research Director of Middle East Public Policy @ RAND Corporation. Analyst on the Middle East for the U.S. government, “Foreign Affairs volume 85 no. 2” p.103-104]

**And, the impact is terrorism, which leads to thousands of deaths and escalation could potentially ignite global conflicts that result in nuclear war.**
**Sid-Ahmed writes**
Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, Al-Ahram Weekly Online, Extinction!, August 26- September 1, 2004, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm

**Targeted killings defeats important figureheads, which increase chances of defeating insurgencies by 30%.**
**Johnston 11**
[Assessing the Effectiveness of Leadership Decapitation in Counterinsurgency Campaigns Patrick B. Johnston. July 2011 Former Research Fellow, International Security Program, 2010–2011: International Security Program/Intrastate Conflict Program, 2009–2010]

**Targeted killing has been empirically proven to reduce suicide bombings. Even if there is retaliation, these new attacks are much less frequent and less effective.** 
**Wilner 10**
Alex S. Wilner. “Targeted Killings in Afghanistan: Measuring Coercion and Deterrence in Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency”. Studies in Conflict & Terrorism. 33: 4, 307-329. Center for Security Studies. ETH Zurich. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. Zurich, Switzerland. March 9th, 2010

**Targeted killing effectively takes out leadership of terrorist organizations.**
**Byman 2**
[Daniel L. Byman, Professor at Georgetown University and Research Director of the Saban Center at Brookings Institution, The Targeted Killings Debate, Expert Roundup, Council on Foreign Relations, June 8, 2011, http://www.cfr.org/international-peace-and-security/targeted-killings-debate/p25230]

**Targeted killings exacerbates tensions between terrorists, which reduces their numbers and prevents them from focusing on carrying out terrorist attacks.**
**Morehouse 11**
[HELLFIRE AND GREY DRONES: AN EMPIRICAL EXAMINATION OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF TARGETED KILLINGS. Matthew Morehouse, University of Nebraska]

**Micro air vehicles used in targeted killing solve any collateral damage. Cutting edge modern targeted killing technology means they're super accurate and are better than any alternative.**
**Hambling 10** 
[Wired, http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/01/killer-micro-drone]

**And,** **targeted killing is comparatively better than full-scale warfare ― fewer casualties, cheaper, and more effective.**
**Nordan 10** 
[E. Walker Nordan Jr., active duty Psychological Operations officer that has served in the USASOC community for over eight years, with experiences in combat in Iraq serving at the Joint Task Force level and in leading a Military Information Support Team for Ambassador Crocker in support of the Department of State and USSOCOM, August 24, 2010, “The Best Defense is a Good Offense: The Necessity of Targeted Killing”]

**Drones are critical to stabilizing the ground in Iraq and helping reconstruction efforts.**
**Callam 10**
[Andrew Callam The George Washington University, Emory University Executive Assistant at George Washington University, International Affairs Review Volume XIX, No. 1: Winter 2010]

**And, regional instability escalates and envelopes the entire Middle East in widespread war with massive fallout in neighboring regions.**
**Cetron 7**
[Marvin J. and Owen Davies, President of Forecasting International Ltd. and former senior editor at Omni magazine, 9/1/7 “Worst-case scenario: the Middle East: current trends indicate that a Middle Eastern war might last for decades,” The Futurist, 41, No. 5]

**And, opposition to drone strikes are only because of lack of transparency, the continued use of targeted killing will prompt the government to act to bring the issue to the public, that establishes a check on the policy through public opinion, which solves all opposition. Transparency prevents loss of credibility by the government.**
**Cullen 7**
[Colonel Peter M. United States Army, Staff Judge Advocate, 101st Airborne Division Air Assault at Fort Campbell, The Role of Targeted Killing in the Campaign Against Terror, March 13, 2007, p.11]

**And, Article 51 of the UN charter justifies targeted killing.**
**Jahagirdar 8** 
[Om. M. Jahagirda, University of Virginia School of Law, July 2008, “Targeted killing, not assassination: the legal case for the United States to kill terrorist leaders”]

**And, targets wouldn’t get due process anyway if we were to kill them in war, so due process is irrelevant.**
**Gross 6**
Gross, Michael. “Assassination or Targeted Killing: Law Enforcement, Execution, or Self-Defense?” Journal of Applied Philosophy, 23.3 (2006): 323-355.

**And, the international realm is anarchic, so states must seek to maximize their relative power to other states. Governments only have obligations to their own citizens.** 
**Mearsheimer**
[Mearsheimer, John. Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Chicago. “Back to the Future: Instability in Europe after the Cold War.” __International Security Vol. 15, No. 1__. Pg. 5-56. 1990 JSTOR]

==Negative== 
**Pakistan DA**
**The U.S. is currently increasing drone capacity to carry out further strikes.**
**McMurtrie 2/28**
[Craig McMurtrie, North America Correspondent, “US Sending More Drones to Afghanistan and Pakistan," ABC Radio Australia. 2/28/12.]

**Targeted killings increase anti-American sentiment in Pakistan among civilians and the military, which worsens relations and increases domestic instability.**
**Iftikhar 2/13**
[February 13, 2012. Momin Iftikhar, Columnist, The Nation. "Redefining Pak-US Relations." The Nation, the most respected Pakistani news publication in English, with five editions published daily from three stations, it is the market leader in the Punjab and Islamabad. The Nation’s editorials are acknowledged as the boldest and most influential in the country, while the wide variety of opinion it publishes by contributing writers, including some of the country's most prominent figures, is unrivalled.] 

**The impact is Pakistan collapse, which causes widespread global conflicts that draws in China, India and Russia.**
**Pitt 9**
[William Pitt, a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World."]

**Yemen DA**
**Yemen's transition between governments means instability is at its weakest point, any more anti-American sentiment coupled with widespread al-Qaeda influence will spark violent conflict ― drones are the tipping point.**
**Schulberg 2/28**
[Jessica Schulberg. The George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs in Washington, D.C. "Is Yemen Ready for Democracy?" International Affairs Review. February 28, 2012]

**Instability in Yemen undermines regional stability and increases terror attacks.**
**Gude 11**
[Ken Managing Director of the National Security and International Policy Program and Ken Sofer is a Special Assistant with the National Security and International Policy team at American Progress, “The Last Best Chance to Save Yemen,” Center for American Progress, 6/10/11]

**Regional instability escalates and envelopes the entire Middle East in widespread war with massive fallout in neighboring regions.**
**Cetron 7**
[Marvin J. and Owen Davies, President of Forecasting International Ltd. and former senior editor at Omni magazine, 9/1/7 “Worst-case scenario: the Middle East: current trends indicate that a Middle Eastern war might last for decades,” The Futurist, 41, No. 5]
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]