=Contention 1: They’re Out There (Not E.T.)= 

Status-quo NASA programs are insufficient to detect a significant number of near-earth objects – expanding survey capacity is key to discovering potentially hazardous asteroids
National Academies, 10
[ Over many decades, the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, and National Research Council have earned a solid reputation as the nation's premier source of independent, expert advice on scientific, engineering, and medical issues, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12842&page=41]

Congress<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…impactors. </span>



And most recent studies show a high risk of an incoming asteroid
Easterbrook, 8
[Gregg, American writer, lecturer, and a senior editor of The New Republic June 2008, Atlantic Magazine, “ The Sky Is Falling,” [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Breakthrough …plane.” </span>

The impact is extinction – timeframe is fast and all their impact defense is wrong
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brownfield ‘4 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Once …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> fear. </span>

Even a small impact triggers global panic and nuclear war
Arentz et. al, 10
[ Robert Arentz, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Crucial…</span><span class="UnderlineBold">event.</span>

The time is now – any delay decreases mitigation success and increases the risk that we deflect with nuclear weapons
Arentz et. al, 10
[ Robert Arentz, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]

Derating…option

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(X) - Nuclear deflection fails – guarantees a bigger asteroid impact</span>
O’Neill, 8
[Ian, PhD Solar Physics @ University of Wales - Space Producer for Discovery News, Nov. 27, 2008, “ Apollo Astronaut Highlights Threat of Asteroid Impact,” [[http://www.astroengine.com/2008/11/apollo-astronaut-highlights-threat-of-asteroid-strike/]]]

Unfortunately… limited.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We need a new approach to the oncoming asteroid – we must consider the economic, political, and socio-cultural ramifications by integrating all of social sciences to save humanity</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 2006 - CARD 1</span>__**(Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

<span class="Underline">The …</span>categories.

Even if the tech fails, astrosociology is critical to the survival of humanity
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 - CARD 2</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even … us.</span>

Asteroid deflection requires astrosociology – we need to know how to react to the threat
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 - CARD 3</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]]

A. Detection**:** <span class="Underline">…</span> life.

Reducing existential risk __by even a tiny amount__ outweighs __every other impact__ — the math is conclusively on our side.
Nick **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom</span>__**, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>__** (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]], Accessed 07-04-2011)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding …</span><span class="Underline">action</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[13]</span>
Err Aff – uncertainty means you should default to worst-case predictions – precautionary principle – it’s try-or-die for the aff
Seamone, 4
[Evan, J.D., University of Iowa College of Law; M.P.P. and B.A., University of California, Los Angeles. Evan Seamone is an attorney and a Judge Advocate in the U.S. Army stationed at Fort Polk, Louisiana, “The Precautionary Principle as the Law of Planetary Defense: Achieving the Mandate to Defend the Earth Against Asteroid and Comet Impacts While There is Still Time,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review. Washington: Fall 2004. Vol. 17, Iss. 1; pg. 1, 23 pgs]

Although <span class="UnderlineBold">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">confusion.26</span>

=Plan= 

Thus we advocate that the United States federal government should develop and deploy asteroid detection and deflection technologies beyond the Earth’s mesosphere with an astrosociological perspective.
=Contention 2: Beyond Hard Science= 

Our speech act is uniquely key – nonscientists are ultimately the ones who will deal with the threat
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 4</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

Despite <span class="Underline">…sciences.</span>

Our demand and action is key to sparking a new world consciousness – our speech act challenges defense and technocratic discourse institutions
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 5</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]]

<span class="Underline">These …</span> astrosociology.
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The interdisciplinary approach we advocate sparks discussion of cosmic impacts – this is critical to evaluating and planning for the future of humankind</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 6</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

<span class="Underline">Astrosociology …</span>astrosociologists<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our demand for a change in societal consciousness would be like the Overview Effect – binding societies and Earth together in human unity. Our position as the USFG is key and the threat of an asteroid solves – no K’s</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 7</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**Positive …**</span> way.

Our project is key to reinvigorating the public sphere and reenergizing thought and societal consciousness
Gangale and Dudley-Flores, 7
[Thomas, Executive Director, OPS-Alaska ; and Marilyn, CEO/Chief Research Scientist, OPS-Alaska; “The Globalization of Space – The Astrosociological Approach”, Presented at the AIAA SPACE 2007 Conference & Exposition 18 - 20 September 2007, Long Beach, Californi]

**__The …civilization.__**
Socio-cultural considerations come first – the neg’s purely body count based logic is flawed
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 8</span>__** (Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

<span class="Underline">The …</span>protection<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">social science informs policy analysis</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pass 6 – CARD 9</span>__**(Jim, 09-21, Ph.D. in sociology, University of Southern California, Founder of Astrosociology.com & Senior Consultant “Applied Astrosociology: The New Imperative to Protect Earth and Human Societies”, STAIF, [[http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Protecting%20Societies.pdf]])

The … differences.


**Detection with an astrosociological mindset Solves.**
**Aretz, Reitsema, Van Cleve, and Linfield 2010.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert Arentz, Harold Reitsema , Jeffrey Van Cleve and Roger Linfield. (Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. AND SETI Institute) December 10, 2010. December 5, 2011. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]]</span>
**__If, … work.__**