[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 120%;">Affirmative</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
=<span style="font-size: 120%;">Negative</span>= 
<span style="font-size: 120%;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-top: 10pt; overflow: hidden; page-break-after: avoid; page-break-before: always; position: absolute; text-align: center; top: -25px; width: 1px;">[[#_GoBack]]**__Contention 1: Inherency__**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-top: 10pt; overflow: hidden; page-break-after: avoid; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**1. No organization will implement SPS in the status quo.**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**Cox 11**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">William John Cox, retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author, and political activist, “The Race for Space-Solar Energy”, Truthout, 30 April 2011: http://www.truth-out.org/race-space-solar-energy/1304186557</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">A Miraculous Source of Abundant Energy: Space-solar energy is the greatest source of untapped energy that could, potentially, completely solve the world's energy and greenhouse gas emission problems. **__The technology currently exists to launch solar-collector satellites into geostationary orbits around the Earth to convert the sun's radiant energy into electricity 24 hours a day and to safely transmit the electricity by microwave beams to rectifying antennas on Earth.__** Following its proposal by Dr. Peter Glaser in 1968, the concept of solar power satellites was extensively studied by the US Department of Energy (DOE) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). By 1981, the organizations determined that the idea was a high-risk venture; however, they recommended further study. With increases in electricity demand and costs, NASA took a ///"fresh look" at the concept between 1995 and 1997. The NASA study envisioned a trillion-dollar project to place several dozen solar-power satellites in geostationary orbits by 2050 that would send between two gigawatts and five gigawatts of power to Earth. **__The <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">NASA </span>effort <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">successfully demonstrated the ability to transmit electrical energy</span> by microwaves <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">through the atmosphere</span>; however, the study's leader, John <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">Mankins</span>, now <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">says the program "has fallen through the cracks because no organization is responsible for both space </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">programs</span><span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;"> and energy </span>security.__**</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="color: black;">Dr Ben-Abraham said: "Nature isn't benign. </span>**__The survival of the human species is not a preordained evolutionary programme. <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">Abundant sources of genetic variation exist for viruses </span>to <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">learn how to</span> mutate and <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">evade the immune system</span>__**<span style="background: aqua; color: black;">.</span><span style="color: black;">" He cites the 1968 Hong Kong flu outbreak as an example of how viruses have outsmarted human intelligence. And as new "mega-cities" are being developed in the Third World and rainforests are </span>destroyed, disease-carrying animals and insects are forced into areas of human habitation. **__"This raises the very real possibility that lethal, mysterious <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">viruses would</span>, for the first time, infect humanity at a large scale and <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">imperil the survival of the human race</span>__**<span style="color: black;">," he said.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-top: 10pt; overflow: hidden; page-break-after: avoid; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**9. And, pollution from pesticides collapses the world water supply.**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**Bachtell 02**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">[John Bachtell, “Life in the balance: Capitalism at war with nature and humanity,” Opening to the National Board June 20, 2002, pg. <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">[[http://www.cpusa.org/article/articleview/465/1/47/edlee]]</span>]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**__<span style="background: aqua;">A large amount enters nature's chain through </span>__****__nitrogen based <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">fertilizers</span>.__** The use of nitrogen fertilizer has accelerated world wide to overcome the mineral depletion of soil. Little of it is absorbed by the soil and it turns to **__<span style="background: aqua;">runoff</span>__****__.__** It further depletes the soil by leaching other essential nutrients. The amount of nitrogen in our rivers and streams has grown dramatically. Nitrogen content has doubled in the Mississippi River since 1965. Many scientists believe this **__<span style="background: aqua;">is</span>__** responsible for **__<span style="background: aqua;">creating </span>__****__large scale <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">ecological crises</span>__****,** particularly **__<span style="background: aqua;">in the oceans. It causes</span>__** Eutrophication, mass algae blooms, in estuaries and coastal areas, leading to **__creeping "dead zones."__** These are areas where the bottom water is devoid of oxygen. For example a huge dead zone many miles across has appeared at the mouth of the Mississippi River. Eutrophication is linked to **__<span style="background: aqua;">the loss of oceanic biodiversity, destruction of </span>__****__the <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">corral reefs</span>, sea grasses and seaweeds__**. In the last few decades 35 million acres of corral reefs have been destroyed. **__This has reverberating effects all the way up the food chain.__** We are experiencing mass deforestation and desertification, particularly in Asia and Africa. Many tropical forests which contain the greatest concentrations of biodiversity are being destroyed. We have our own desertification crisis in Montana and some western states reminiscent of the Dust Bowl. Worldwide over 135 million people in 110 countries are affected, particularly in poor rural regions. Some 60 million people are expected to leave the Sahelian region of North Africa if desertification there is not halted**__. The shortage of water for human consumption is a world crisis. <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">Water tables are dropping drastically</span>,__** agricultural production is threatened over vast areas, and conflicts are brewing between countries over water resources.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-top: 10pt; overflow: hidden; page-break-after: avoid; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**6. Collapsing global water supply causes extinction.**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**Barlow 01**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Maude Barlow, Spring 2001. National Chairperson of the Council of Canadians and IFG Committee on the Globalization of Water. “BLUE GOLD: The Global Water Crisis and the Commodification of the World's Water Supply,” <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">[[http://www.ratical.org/co-globalize/BlueGold.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Perhaps the most devastating analysis of **__<span style="background: aqua;">the global water crisis</span>__** comes from hydrological engineer Michal Kravèík and his team of scientists at the Slovakia non-governmental organization (NGO) People and Water. Kravèík, who has a distinguished career with the Slovak Academy of Sciences, has studied the effect of urbanization, industrial agriculture, deforestation, dam construction, and infrastructure and paving on water systems in Slovakia and surrounding countries and has come up with an alarming finding. Destroying water's natural habitat not only creates a supply crisis for people and animals, it also dramatically **__<span style="background: aqua;">diminishes</span>__** the amount of **__available fresh <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">water on the planet</span>__**<span style="background: aqua;">.</span> Kravèík describes the hydrologic cycle of a drop of water. It must first evaporate from a plant, earth surface, swamp, river, lake or the sea, then fall back down to earth as precipitation. If the drop of water falls back onto a forest, lake, blade of grass, meadow or field, it cooperates with nature to return to the hydrologic cycle. "Right of domicile of a drop is one of the basic rights, a more serious right than human rights," says Kravèík. However, if the earth's surface is paved over, denuded of forests and meadows, and drained of natural springs and creeks, the drop will not form part of river basins and continental watersheds, where it is needed by people and animals, but head out to sea, where it will be stored. It is like rain falling onto a huge roof, or umbrella; everything underneath stays dry and the water runs off to the perimeter. The consequent reduction in continental water basins results in reduced water evaporation from the earth's surface, and becomes a net loss, while the seas begin to rise. In Slovakia, the scientists found, for every 1 percent of roofing, paving, car parks and highways constructed, water supplies decrease in volume by more than 100 billion meters per year. Kravèík issues a dire warning about the growing number of what he calls the earth's "hot stains"—places already drained of water. **__<span style="background: aqua;">The "drying out" of the earth will cause</span>__** massive global warming, with the attendant extremes in weather: **__<span style="background: aqua;">drought</span>__****__, decreased protection from the atmosphere, <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">increased solar radiation, decreased biodiversity, </span>melting of the polar icecaps, submersion of vast territories, massive continental desertification <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">and</span>,__** eventually, "**__<span style="background: aqua;">global collapse</span>__**."</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-top: 10pt; overflow: hidden; page-break-after: avoid; page-break-before: always; position: absolute; text-align: center; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**__Contention 5 is Solvency__**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-top: 10pt; overflow: hidden; page-break-after: avoid; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**1. SPS solve energy and global warming.**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**NSS 11**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">National Space Society, “Space Solar Power”, accessed 4 January, 2012: [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/]]</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**__The United States and the world need to find new sources of clean energy__**__<span style="text-underline: thick;">.</span>__ Space Solar Power gathers energy from sunlight in space and transmits it wirelessly to Earth. **__<span style="background: aqua;">S</span>__****__pace <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">s</span>olar <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">p</span>ower <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">can solve our energy and greenhouse gas </span>emissions <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">problems. Not just help, </span>not just take a step in the right direction, <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">but solve. </span>__**Space solar power can provide large quantities of energy to each and every person on Earth with very little environmental impact. The solar energy available in space is literally billions of times greater than we use today. The lifetime of the sun is an estimated 4-5 billion years, making space solar power a truly long-term energy solution. As Earth receives only one part in 2.3 billion of the Sun's output, space solar power is by far the largest potential energy source available, dwarfing all others combined. Solar energy is routinely used on nearly all spacecraft today<span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">. </span>**__<span style="background: aqua;">This technology </span>__****__on a larger scale, combined with already demonstrated wireless power transmission__** (see 2-minute video of demo), **__<span style="background: aqua;">can supply </span>__****__nearly <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">all the electrical needs of our planet. </span>Another need is to move away from fossil fuels for our transportation system.__** While electricity powers few vehicles today, hybrids will soon evolve into plug-in hybrids which can use electric energy from the grid. As batteries, super-capacitors, and fuel cells improve, **__the gasoline engine will gradually play a smaller and smaller role in transportation — but only if we can generate the enormous quantities of electrical energy we need.__** It doesn't help to remove fossil fuels from vehicles if you just turn around and use fossil fuels again to generate the electricity to power those vehicles. **__<span style="background: aqua;">S</span>__****__pace <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">s</span>olar <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">p</span>ower <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">can provide </span>the needed <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">clean power for any</span> future <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">electric transportation system.</span>__** While all viable energy options should be pursued with vigor, space solar power has a number of substantial advantages over other energy sources.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-top: 10pt; overflow: hidden; page-break-after: avoid; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**2. Government investment in SPS catalyzes private action, we access full solvency through the plan.**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**NSSO 07**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Finding: The SBSP Study Group found that **__a small amount of <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">entry capital by the US Government is likely to catalyze</span> substantially more <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">investment by the private sector.</span>__** This opinion was expressed many times over from energy and aerospace companies alike. Indeed, there is anecdotal evidence that even **__the activity of <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">this</span>__** interim **__<span style="background: aqua;">study has </span>__****__already <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">provoked </span>significant <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">activity by </span>at least three <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">major aerospace companies. Should the U</span>nited <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">S</span>tates <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">put some dollars in for a </span>study or d<span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">emonstration, it is likely to catalyze significant</span> amounts of internal <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">research and development.</span>__** Study leaders likewise heard that the DoD could have a catalytic role by sponsoring prizes or signaling its willingness to become the anchor customer for the product. These findings are consistent with the findings of the recent President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) report which recommended the federal government “expand its role as an early adopter in order to demonstrate commercial feasibility of advanced energy technologies.”</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-top: 10pt; overflow: hidden; page-break-after: avoid; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**3. Space solar power will replace oil because it costs less.**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**Billings 09**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">“William Maness on why alternative energy and power grids aren’t good playmates and his plans for beaming solar power from space”, Getting Solar Off the Ground, Power Player / by Lee Billings / July 28, 2009: http://seedmagazine.com/content/article/getting_solar_off_the_ground/</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Seed: **__Ideas for SBSP have been around since the late 60s. So why is it only commercially viable now?__** WM: **__<span style="background: aqua;">The costs of </span>__****__deploying <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">powersats are falling, and the costs of fossil fuels are rising.</span>__** When powersats were first envisioned, solar cells were these huge monolithic crystalline beasts that weren’t very efficient in weight per watt. Now, we’re printing thin solar cells on sub-micron aluminum and titanium. **__<span style="background: aqua;">Solar cells have gotten </span>__****__much <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">more efficient</span>__** per unit **__at converting sunlight to electricity, <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">and the weight’s gone</span> way <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">down</span>.__** Weight—or, really, mass—is everything in space. **__Meanwhile, <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">the</span> base <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">cost </span>and the burdened cost <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">of fossil fuel is rising fast.</span>__** The base cost is just how much it costs to extract and distribute fossil fuels, pretending that carbon emissions don’t mean anything and that there’s no penalty whatsoever for warming the entire world. Burden cost is when the political system says, “Wait a minute. You can’t do that!” and spanks you in terms of taxations and carbon-curbing measures. Seed: Are you worried about fluctuations or manipulations in the price of fossil fuels causing problems for PowerSat? WM: There will surely be further price manipulations. You see OPEC doing it all the time. But the market can only support this in the short term. The fossil fuel price cycle is fairly regular, but the cycle’s tightening every time it occurs, getting shorter and shorter in duration. We could easily weather another artificial lowering because we know what’s coming on the other side of it. **__The market’s__** fundamental **__feedstock is inflexible; there’s only so much fossil fuel. <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">Powersats</span>, once established, <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">will </span>always <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">win </span>over the long term <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">because there’s </span>essentially <span style="background: aqua; mso-highlight: aqua;">no cost for fuel—you get it for free </span>from the Sun.__**</span>