[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

If you want any cites for the september october resolution feel free to email me at: [[mailto:ekayeh@gmail.com|ekayeh@gmail.com]]
==Negative== 
If you want any cites for the september october resolution feel free to email me at: [[mailto:ekayeh@gmail.com|ekayeh@gmail.com]]
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
Theory is an issue of reasonability or at least I get an RVI also abuse needs to be clairified in cx

Negating by saying bad things happen of the moral obligation exists does not deny the existence of the obligation

The resolution is only about individuals that can have a moral obligation

The value is morality because it is prescribed per the resolution.

burden is abiding by moral obligations

There are two types of moral olbigations, ones where we assign guilt and culpabliilty and other ones where the moral reasons for fulfilling the obligation outweigh the non moral reason not too.
Wolf
On the one <span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS';">…</span> doing something else.

Thus I contend that we have an obligation to assist those in need Peter Singer 1explains:

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">My next point … the child out.</span>__**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Singer 2 Continues, </span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">The uncontroversial appearance …the same position.</span>__**

**And we have an obligation to help that live far from us Singer3**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">I do not … on geographical grounds.</span>__**

**We also have an obligation to assist even if other people do not respond to their obligation Singer 4**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">There may be …</span>__** almost equally involved.

**Also, it is a duty to assist those in need not an act of charity Singer**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> 5</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">The outcome of </span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">…</span> not to do so.__

The singer article’s cites: <span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 11pt;">Famine, Affluence, and Morality Author(s): Peter Singer Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 3 (Spring, 1972), pp. 229-243 Published by: </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Times; font-size: 11pt;">Blackwell Publishing </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 11pt;">Stable URL: </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Times; font-size: 11pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265052 </span><span style="color: white; font-family: Times; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 11pt;">Accessed: 26/10/2011 23:47</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 11pt;">The wolf cite: </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Susan Wolf University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Article: Moral obligations and social commands </span>
==Negative== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Permis Flows Neg [4 reasons]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">the rules that govern the act [action of the resolution] must preclude the actual application.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Two concepts of attachment to rules Authors: Christian Greiffenhagen and Wes Sharrock Address: Christian Greiffenhagen School of Social Sciences University of Manchester June 26, 2009</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__The rules of__** **__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS';">…</span>__** **__defined by a practice.__**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">we can never know if we are following the rule correctly.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Chantal Mouffe, <span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS';">“</span>The Democratic Paradox<span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS';">”</span> pg 71 Verso 2000</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__the first consists__** **__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Unicode MS';">…</span>__** **__chess or tennis.__**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Two impacts:</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">1) never know if correctly applying rule</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">2) Its just an issue of permissibility, not of obligations</span>
No way to ensure compliance with the rule
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]