[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=Negative= 

==Speciesism K [vs patriarchy aff]== 
The aff understands history solely as a product of human relations, obfuscating the oppression of animals. Instead, endorse the method of animal standpoint theory – we control root cause of oppression and conflict 

Best 2007 -- Associate Professor, Departments of Humanities and Philosophy, University of Texas (“Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression.” Journal for Critical Animal Studies, Volume V, Issue 2, 2007) CMR italics in original 

Since the nineteenth century, geographers have developed theories of “environmental determinism” that reject the humanist interpretation of history as constituted solely through human-to-human interactions. By contrast, they emphasized that environmental factors such as physical terrain and climate determined psychological outlooks and temperaments, cultural characteristics, social organization, and historical change. Once introduced into historiography as a crucial perspective mediated with other perspectives such as economics, class, technology, and culture in a non-reductionist manner that does not ignore the influence of social factors and the ability of humans to shape their environments as well, “environmental determinism” (read: “conditioning”) greatly bolsters our abilities to understand biological evolution, social development, and human behavior.
While a welcome advance over the anthropocentric conceit that only humans shape human actions, the environmental determinism approach typically fails to emphasize the crucial role that animals play in human history, as well as how the human exploitation of animals is a key cause of hierarchy, social conflict, and environmental breakdown. A core thesis of what I call “animal standpoint theory” is that animals have been key driving and shaping forces of human thought, psychology, moral and social life, and history overall. More specifically, animal standpoint theory argues that the oppression of human over human has deep roots in the oppression of human over animal. 
In this context, Charles Patterson’s recent book, The Eternal Treblinka: Our Treatment of Animals and the Holocaust, articulates the animal standpoint in a powerful form with revolutionary implications. The main argument of Eternal Treblinka is that the human domination of animals, such as it emerged some ten thousand years ago with the rise of agricultural society, was the first hierarchical domination and laid the groundwork for patriarchy, slavery, warfare, genocide, and other systems of violence and power. A key implication of Patterson’s theory is that human liberation is implausible if disconnected from animal liberation, and thus humanism -- a speciesist philosophy that constructs a hierarchal relationship privileging superior humans over inferior animals and reduces animals to resources for human use -- collapses under the weight of its logical contradictions. 
Patterson lays out his complex holistic argument in three parts. In Part I, he demonstrates that animal exploitation and speciesism have direct and profound connections to slavery, colonialism, racism, and anti-Semitism. In Part II, he shows how these connections exist not only in the realm of ideology – as conceptual systems of justifying and underpinning domination and hierarchy – but also in systems of technology, such that the tools and techniques humans devised for the rationalized mass confinement and slaughter of animals were mobilized against human groups for the same ends. Finally, in the fascinating interviews and narratives of Part III, Patterson describes how personal experience with German Nazism prompted Jewish to take antithetical paths: whereas most retreated to an insular identity and dogmatic emphasis on the singularity of Nazi evil and its tragic experience, others recognized the profound similarities between how Nazis treated their human captives and how humanity as a whole treats other animals, an epiphany that led them to adopt vegetarianism, to become advocates for the animals, and develop a far broader and more inclusive ethic informed by universal compassion for all suffering and oppressed beings.

They are not radical – they still understand oppression as HUMAN oppression – fails to recognize exploitation of animals 

Best 2006 -- Associate Professor, Departments of Humanities and Philosophy, University of Texas (Steven, The International Journal of INCLUSIVE DEMOCRACY, Vol. 2, No. 3 (June 2006), http://www.inclusivedemocracy.org/journal/vol2/vol2_no3_Best_rethinking_revolution_PRINTABLE.htm) CMR 

The prejudice and discriminatory attitude of speciesism is as much a part of the Left as the general population and its most regressive elements, calling into question the “radical,” “oppositional,” or “progressive” nature of Left positions and politics. While condemning violence and professing rights for all, the Left fails to take into account the weighty needs and interests of billions of oppressed animals. Although priding themselves on holistic and systemic critiques of global capitalism, Leftists fail to grasp the profound interconnections among human, animal, and earth liberation struggles and the need to conceived and fight for all as one struggle against domination, exploitation, and hierarchy.
From the perspective of ecology and animal rights, Marxists and other social “radicals” have been extremely reactionary forces. In the Communist Manifesto, Marx and Engels lumped animal welfarists into the same petite-bourgeoisie or reactionary category with charity organizers, temperance fanatics, and naïve reformists, failing to see that the animal welfare movement in the US, for instance, was a key politicizing cause for women whose struggle to reduce cruelty to animals was inseparable from their struggle against male violence and the exploitation of children.[10]In works such as his 1844 Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts, Karl Marx advanced a naturalistic theory of human life, but like the dominant Western tradition he posited a sharp dualism between human and nonhuman animals, arguing that only human beings have consciousness and a complex social world. Denying to animals the emotional, social, and psychological complexity of their actual lives, Marx argued that whereas animals have an immediate and merely instinctual relation to productive activity the earth, human labor is mediated by free will and intelligence. If Marxism and other Left traditions have proudly grounded their theories in science, social radicals need to realize that science―specifically, the discipline of “cognitive ethology” which studies the complexity of animal emotions, thought, and communications― has completely eclipsed their fallacious, regressive, speciesist concepts of nonhuman animals as devoid of complex forms of consciousness and social life.[11]
While there is lively debate over whether or not Marx had an environmental consciousness, there is no question he was a speciesist and the product of an obsolete anthropocentric/dominionist paradigm that continues to mar progressive social theory and politics. The spectacle of Left speciesism is evident in the lack of articles ―often due to a blatant refusal to consider animal rights issues― on animal exploitation in progressive journals, magazines, and online sites. In one case, for example, The Nation wrote a scathing essay that condemned the treatment of workers at a factory farm, but amazingly said nothing about the exploitation of thousands of chickens imprisoned in the hell of battery cages. In bold contrast, Gale Eisnitz’s powerful work, Slaughterhouse, documents the exploitation of animals and humans alike on the killing floors of slaughterhouses, as she shows the dehumanization of humans in and through routinized violence to animals.[12]
As symptomatic of the prejudice, ignorance, provincialism, and non-holistic theorizing that is rife through the Left, consider the case of Michael Albert, a Chomskyian libertarian socialist and co-founder of Z Magazine and Z Net. In a recent interview with the animal rights and environmental magazine Satya, Albert confessed: “When I talk about social movements to make the world better, animal rights does not come into my mind. I honestly don’t see animal rights in anything like the way I see women’s movements, Latino movements, youth movements, and so on … a large-scale discussion of animal rights and ensuing action is probably more than needed … but it just honestly doesn’t strike me as being remotely as urgent as preventing war in Iraq or winning a 30-hour work week.”

We outweigh – we control the internal link to freedom, oppression and hiearchal genocides in addition to over 100 billion animal deaths a year– many times your impact even if you win human extinction 

Best 2007 -- Associate Professor, Departments of Humanities and Philosophy, University of Texas (“Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression.” Journal for Critical Animal Studies, Volume V, Issue 2, 2007) CMR italics in original 

Moreover, the point of the exhibit – as true of Patterson’s book – is not to reduce humans to animals, but rather to raise animals up into humans in the sense that they are accorded respect, granted their proper intrinsic value, and endowed with the rights relevant for them to lead lives based on freedom from pain and suffering and freedom to happiness and pleasure. Finally, whether critics acknowledge it or not, there simply are commonalities among modes of oppression, they do co-constitute and reinforce one another, and these need to be analyzed as one holistic complex of hierarchy, domination, and oppression, one that, as argued all along, has important roots in the domination of animals. As Matt Prescott eloquently explains: "The very same mindset that made the Holocaust possible - that we can do anything we want to those we decide are 'different or inferior' - is what allows us to commit atrocities against animals every single day. ... The fact is, all animals feel pain, fear and loneliness. We're asking people to recognize that what Jews and others went through in the Holocaust is what animals go through every day in factory farms." 
To give Dr. Martin Luther King a significantly broader reading that extends beyond the narrow limits of the human community to include all sentience life: “No one can be free until all are free.” There is a moral hypocrisy and speciesist double-standard informing heated attacks on PETA’s attempts to draw parallels between animal and human suffering, one that desperately needs to be transcended in favor of a broader ethic. For while groups such as the NAACP and the Anti-Defamation League ask PETA to be sensitive to human oppression, understanding that Blacks and Jews often accused PETA of barging into communities with their display and not appreciating how oppressed peoples might feel used or exploited to make moral arguments on behalf of animals. While these criticisms no doubt were valid in many cases, it must also be said that there were few attempts by oppressed people to make the effort from their side to try to sympathize with and understand animal oppression. While PETA may use images of Jewish and Black exploitation in ways they object to, it is more to the point to note that they eat animals in their private lives and groups functions, a considerable more grievous offense than a well-intended, possible misappropriation of images of suffering to expand the moral community. Indeed, the NAACP’s shameless public defense of serial dog torturer and killer Michael Vick was despicable and displayed a grotesque lack of moral sympathy to non-human animals, not fundamentally different from the detachment (if not pleasure) white racists showed toward those Blacks victimized by their violence
Too many people with pretences to ethics, compassion, decency, justice, love, and other stellar values of humanity at its finest resist the profound analogies between animal and human slavery and animal and human holocausts, in order to devalue or trivialize animal suffering and avoid the responsibility of the weighty moral issues confronting them. The moral myopia of humanism is blatantly evident when people who have been victimized by violence and oppression decry the fact that they “were treated like animals” – as if it is acceptable to brutalize animal, but not humans. 
If there is a salient disanalogy or discontinuity between the tyrannical pogroms launched against animals and humans, it lies not in the fallacious assumption that animals do not suffer physical and mental pain similar to humans, but rather that animals suffer more than humans, both quantitatively (the intensity of their torture, such as they endure in fur farms, factory farms, and experimental laboratories) and qualitatively (the number of those who suffer and die). And while few oppressed human groups lack moral backing, sometimes on an international scale, one finds not mass solidarity with animals but rather mass consumption of them. As another Nobel Prize writer in Literature, South African novelist writer J. M. Coetzee, forcefully stated: “Let me say it openly: we are surrounded by an enterprise of degradation, cruelty, and killing which rivals anything the Third Reich was capable of, indeed dwarfs it, in that ours is an enterprise without end, self-regenerating, bringing rabbits, rats, poultry, livestock ceaselessly into the world for the purpose of killing them.” 
Every year, throughout the world, over 45 billion farmed animals currently are killed for food consumption. This staggering number is nearly eight times the present human population. In the US alone, over 10 billion animals are killed each year for food consumption – 27 million each day, nearly 19,000 per minute. Of the 10 billion land animals killed each year in the US, over 9 billion are chickens; every day in the US, 23 million chickens are killed for human consumption, 269 per second. In addition to the billions of land animals consumed, humans also kill and consume 85 billion marine animals (17 billion in the US). Billions more animals die in the name of science, entertainment, sport, or fashion (i.e., the leather, fur, and wool industries), or on highways as victims of cars and trucks. Moreover, ever more animal species vanish from the earth as we enter the sixth great extinction crisis in the planet’s history, this one caused by human not natural events, the last one occurring 65 million years ago with the demise of the dinosaurs and 90% of all species on the planet. 

Alt text: reject the affirmative’s endorsement of speciesism 

We endorse a new type of ethics, an ethics that begins from the standpoint of an animal. Intellectuals in academia need to remove their speciesist blinders – only this solves the oppression the 1AC outlines 

Best 2007 -- Associate Professor, Departments of Humanities and Philosophy, University of Texas (“Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression.” Journal for Critical Animal Studies, Volume V, Issue 2, 2007) CMR italics in original 

The most important objective of the book, indeed, is to promote a new ethics and mode of perception. Eternal Treblinka affects a radical shift in the way we understand oppression, domination, power, and hierarchy. It is both an effect of these changes, and, hopefully, a catalyst to deepen political resistance to corporate domination and hierarchy in all forms. Given its broad framing that highlights the crucial importance of human domination over animals for slavery, racism, colonialism, and anti-Semitism, Eternal Treblinka could and should revolutionize fields such as Holocaust studies, colonial and postcolonial studies, and African American studies. But this can happen only if, to be blunt, humanists, “radicals,” and “progressives” in academia and society in general remove their speciesist blinders in order to grasp the enormity of animal suffering, its monumental moral wrong in needless and unjustifiable exploitation of animals, and the larger structural matrix in which human-over-human domination and human-over-animal domination emerge from the same prejudiced, power-oriented, and pathological violent mindset. Political resistance in western nations, above all, will advance a quantum leap when enough people recognize that the movements for human liberation, animal liberation, and earth liberation are so deeply interconnected that no one objective is possible without the realization of the others. 

Method first comparatively when it comes to this K 
Agamben 2004 -- Italian political philosopher (“The Open: man and animal.” Stanford university press, Stanford California, p. 37-38) CMR **we don’t endrose gendered language 

On the one hand, we have the anthropological machine of the moderns. As we have seen, it functions by excluding as not (yet) human an already human being from itself, that is, by animalizing the human, by isolating the nonhuman within the human: Homo alalus, or the ape-man. And it is enough to move our field of research ahead a few decades, and instead of this innocuous paleontological find we will have the Jew, that is, the non-man produced within the man, or the néomort and the overcomatose person, that is, the animal separated within the human body itself.
The machine of earlier times works in an exactly symmetrical way. If, in the machine of the moderns, the outside is produced through the exclusion of an inside and the inhuman produced by animalizing the human, here the inside is obtained through the inclusion of an outside, and the non-man is produced by the humanization of an animal: the man-ape, the enfant sauvage or Homo ferus, but also and above all the slave, the barbarian, and the foreigner, as figures of an animal in human form.
Both machines are able to function only by establishing a zone of indifference at their centers, within which—like a “missing link” which is always lacking because it is already virtually pres ent—the articulation between human and animal, man and nonman, speaking being and living being, must take place. Like every space of exception, this zone is, in truth, perfectly empty, and the truly human being who should occur there is only the place of a ceaselessly updated decision in which the caesurae and their rearticulation are always dislocated and displaced anew. What would thus be obtained, however, is neither an animal life nor a human life, but only a life that is separated and excluded from itself—only a bare life.
And faced with this extreme figure of the human and the inhuman, it is not so much a matter of asking which of the two machines (or of the two variants of the same machine) is better or more effective—or, rather, less lethal and bloody—as it is of understanding how they work so that we might, eventually, be able to stop them.


==Afghanistan Stuff== 

Winning the war – momentum 

Jones 3/14 -- senior political scientist at the Rand Corporation (Seth, Rand, appeared on Foreign Policy, “Beating Back the Taliban.” http://www.rand.org/commentary/2011/03/14/FP.html) CMR 

Despite all the political hand-wringing in Washington over the war in Afghanistan, it's the Taliban who are now on the defensive on the military battlefield. Indeed, there is a growing recognition among senior Taliban leaders that they are losing momentum in parts of southern Afghanistan, their longtime stronghold. This is more than the normal winter lull of senior Taliban fighters migrating to Pakistan: The Taliban have definitively lost territorial control in parts of Helmand, Kandahar, Uruzgan, and other southern provinces.
According to a growing body of Afghan, NATO, and even Taliban reports, Taliban leaders held a secret meeting last month near Quetta, Pakistan, to discuss concerns that they had lost territory in parts of Helmand province and other areas in southern Afghanistan. According to one Taliban commander with direct knowledge of the meeting, they concluded that local forces allied to the Afghan government "are in control of a growing number of areas in the province and will likely continue to expand since local families and the government have encouraged their sons to participate."
Assessing progress in a counterinsurgency is more art than science. Body counts tend not to be helpful in measuring insurgent progress. Nor do levels of violence. Neither captures the combatants' primary goal: control over the population.
The Taliban have been remarkably transparent about their objectives and tactics. As the group announced in 2010 when it kicked off Operation al-Fath, or "conquest," it aims to conduct a range of targeted assassinations in urban and rural areas to seize control of Afghanistan. "May Allah help the mujahideen establish an Islamic government, keep the trenches of war hot against the aggressive infidels, and carry out their jihad," the Taliban announced. But after years of gains, the Taliban's progress has stalled—and even reversed—in southern Afghanistan this year.
A recent NATO assessment indicated that Taliban control of territory had decreased since last year, with many of the Taliban's losses coming in the south, their most important sanctuary. Since late 2010, Taliban leader Mullah Omar and Sirajuddin Haqqani, a senior official in the Haqqani network, have acknowledged mounting losses, though they have vowed to retaliate.
There appear to be several reasons for the Taliban's diminished ability to wage war.
One is the decision among Afghan and NATO leaders to establish a "bottom-up" component of the campaign plan that allows Afghan communities to stand up for themselves. The Afghan Local Police program, which was established in August by President Hamid Karzai, has undermined Taliban control in Helmand, Kandahar, Uruzgan, and other provinces by helping villagers protect their communities and better connecting them to district and provincial government.
The Afghan government and NATO forces have been fairly meticulous in choosing locations where locals have already resisted the Taliban, vetting candidates with biometrics and available intelligence, and training and mentoring local villagers. In some cases, the Afghan government has provided basic weapons and equipment to local communities for self-protection. The government and NATO forces have also helped ensure Afghan Local Police are small, defensive entities under the supervision of local shuras and control of the Interior Ministry.
The Taliban have taken notice. "We must crush these efforts," another Taliban commander, who has been with the organization since 2002, told me in Kandahar province in February. "And we must do it now." Taliban and other insurgent commanders are listening. Insurgent attacks against the Afghan government and NATO forces have nearly doubled from levels at the beginning of 2010, though so have civilian casualties caused by the Taliban.
A second reason for the decline in Taliban control appears to be the surge in conventional military forces, especially in eastern and southern Afghanistan. There are currently nearly 70,000 NATO forces in the south, up from 20,000 in April 2009. In Helmand province, for example, U.S. Marine Corps and Afghan National Army forces have conducted a range of dismounted patrols, targeting insurgent sanctuaries and working closely with tribal and other community leaders. One of the most notable successes has been the recent agreement with the Alikozai tribe in Sangin district, an insurgent stronghold, to halt insurgent attacks on coalition forces and expel Taliban fighters.
These factors have placed the Taliban in a difficult position. When asked who they would rather have ruling Afghanistan today, 86 percent of Afghans said the Karzai government and only 9 percent the Taliban, according to a December poll by ABC News, BBC, ARD, and the Washington Post. When asked who posed the biggest danger in the country, 64 percent of respondents said the Taliban, up from 41 percent in 2005.
It's not difficult to see why the Taliban are unpopular. In the 1990s, the Taliban closed cinemas and banned music, along with almost every other conceivable kind of entertainment. Most Afghans don't subscribe to their religious zealotry. Indeed, most Muslims elsewhere in the world would also disavow the severity of the Taliban's puritanism.

No loose nukes and can’t deploy them 
Gavin, 2010 [Francis J., Tom Slick Professor of International Affairs and Director of the Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law, Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, University of Texas at Austin, “Same As It Ever Was: Nuclear Alarmism, Proliferation, and the Cold War.” International Security, Vol. 34, No. 3 (Winter 2009/10), pp. 7–37, Google Scholar] CMR 
Experts disagree on whether nonstate actors have the scientific, engineering, financial, natural resource, security, and logistical capacities to build a nuclear bomb from scratch. According to terrorism expert Robin Frost, the danger of a “nuclear black market” and loose nukes from Russia may be overstated. Even if a terrorist group did acquire a nuclear weapon, delivering and detonating it against a U.S. target would present tremendous technical and logistical difaculties.51 Finally, the feared nexus between terrorists and rogue regimes may be exaggerated. As nuclear proliferation expert Joseph Cirincione argues, states such as Iran and North Korea are “not the most likely sources for terror- ists since their stockpiles, if any, are small and exceedingly precious, and hence well-guarded.”52 Chubin states that there “is no reason to believe that Iran to- day, any more than Sadaam Hussein earlier, would transfer WMD [weapons of mass destruction] technology to terrorist groups like al-Qaida or Hezbollah.”53 Even if a terrorist group were to acquire a nuclear device, expert Michael Levi demonstrates that effective planning can prevent catastrophe: for nuclear terrorists, what “can go wrong might go wrong, and when it comes to nuclear terrorism, a broader, integrated defense, just like controls at the source of weapons and materials, can multiply, intensify, and compound the possibili- ties of terrorist failure, possibly driving terrorist groups to reject nuclear terror- ism altogether.” Warning of the danger of a terrorist acquiring a nuclear weapon, most analyses are based on the inaccurate image of an “infallible ten- foot-tall enemy.” This type of alarmism, writes Levi, impedes the development of thoughtful strategies that could deter, prevent, or mitigate a terrorist attack: “Worst-case estimates have their place, but the possible failure-averse, conser- vative, resource-limited ave-foot-tall nuclear terrorist, who is subject not only to the laws of physics but also to Murphy’s law of nuclear terrorism, needs to become just as central to our evaluations of strategies.”54 


Presence doesn’t cause border hopping 

Bruno 10 (4/9/10, Greg, defense and national security analyst for CFR, “ Miscalculations in U.S. Afghan Offensive,”http://www.cfr.org/publication/21863/miscalculations_in_us_afghan_offensive.html) 

The Pakistani government's argument that somehow U.S. military operations in Afghanistan are driving militants into Pakistan is a false one. The real problem has been the Pakistani government's systematic support of militant groups. First in the 1980s, along with the United States to fight the Soviets, but most importantly in the 1990s, various groups were created to fight Indian forces in Kashmir. Throughout the 1990s, various groups were created and the Pakistani government fully supported and trained and armed them. Pakistan has now lost control. Many of them have joined the Tehrik-e Taliban, the Pakistani Taliban movement, and these same groups that were once their proxies are now carrying out attacks on the Pakistani military and the ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence]. I think most Pakistanis have realized this, including Pakistanis in the army, that these militant groups have gone out of control and that they can no longer support militant groups inside of Pakistan itself and think they can simply channel them to fighting India. They can't. They've become a Frankenstein that Pakistan can't control.


Drones turn – CT increases drone strikes causes terror and instability 

Porter 2009 (Gareth, alternet writer “Errant Drone Attacks Spur Militants in Pakistan.” http://www.alternet.org/world/137329/errant_drone_attacks_spur_militants_in_pakistan/) CMR 

WASHINGTON, Apr 15 (IPS) - The U.S. program of drone aircraft strikes against higher-ranking officials of al Qaeda and allied militant organizations, which has been touted by proponents as having eliminated nine of the 20 top al Qaeda leaders, is actually weakening Pakistan’s defense against the insurgency of the Islamic militants there by killing large numbers of civilians based on faulty intelligence and discrediting the Pakistani military, according to data from the Pakistani government and interviews with senior analysts.
Some evidence indicates, moreover, that the top officials in the Barack Obama administration now see the program more as an incentive for the Pakistani military to take a more aggressive posture toward the militants rather than as an effective tool against the insurgents.
Although the strikes have been sold to the U.S. public as a way to weaken and disrupt al Qaeda, which is an explicitly counter-terrorist objective, al Qaeda is not actually the main threat to U.S. security emanating from Pakistan, according to some analysts. The real threat comes from the broader, rapidly growing insurgency of Islamic militants against the shaky Pakistani government and military, they observe, and the drone strikes are a strategically inappropriate approach to that problem.
"Al Qaeda has very little to do with the militancy in the tribal areas of Pakistan," said Marvin Weinbaum, former Afghanistan and Pakistan analyst at the Bureau of Intelligence Research at the U.S. Department of State and now scholar-in-residence at the Middle East Institute.
John McCreary, a senior intelligence analyst for the Defense Intelligence Agency until his retirement in 2006, agrees with Weinbaum’s assessment. "The drone program is supposed to be all about al Qaeda," he told IPS in an interview, but in fact, "the threat is much larger."
McCreary observes that the targets in recent months "have been expanded to include Pakistani Pashtun militants." The administration apparently had dealt with that contradiction by effectively broadening the definition of al Qaeda, according to McCreary
Ambassador James Dobbins, the director of National Security Studies at the Rand Corporation, who maintains contacts with a range of administration national security officials, told IPS in an interview that the drone strikes in Pakistan are aimed "in the short and medium term" at the counter-terrorism objective of preventing attacks on Washington and other capitals.
But as they have shifted to Pakistani Taliban targets, Dobbins said, "To degree the targets are insurgents and are Pakistanis not Arabs it would be correct to assess that they are part of an insurgency." That raises the question, he said, whether the drone program "is feeding the insurgency and popular support for it."

Al Qaeda inevitable regardless of Afghanistan 

Farrall 3/1 -- is a former senior Counter Terrorism Intelligence Analyst with the Australian Federal Police (AFP), taught at U of Queensland, phd student on terrorism (Leah, Foreign Affairs peer reviewed journal, “How al Qaeda Works: What the Organization's Subsidiaries Say About Its Strength.” Factiva) CMR 

In the near term, aside from any efforts to bring al Shabab on board, al Qaeda is likely to focus on its existing subsidiaries. As it comes under continued pressure in Pakistan, al Qaeda will primarily focus on making sure that the centralization of the organization's actions is maintained through the external operations carried out by its subsidiaries and that the subsidiaries stay on message. Doing so will ensure that in the event the central leadership suffers greater losses, al Qaeda will have alternative means to project power and maintain influence.
Because al Qaeda will continue to encourage its branch and franchises to carry out attacks and will continue to use the reactions they provoke to pursue its goals, it is important that the strategic picture of al Qaeda accurately reflect the organization's broad operating dynamics instead of wishful thinking about the central organization's degraded capacity. A large attack tomorrow orchestrated by the central leadership would prove wrong any assessments of diminished capabilities. Meanwhile, the enduring goals that drive al Qaeda's strategies and tactics, which have allowed the group to expand during the past decade of war, continue to be overlooked. Until al Qaeda's interaction with its branch and franchises is better comprehended and taken into consideration, assessments of its capacity and organizational health will continue to fall short.

Plan doesn’t solve paki instability – border area not key 

Majidayar 3/10 – senior research associate at AEI (Ahmad, AEI, “A New, More Serious Terrorism Threat From Pakistan.” http://www.aei.org/article/103299) CMR 

If the Pakistani government is sincere about countering Taliban and al Qaeda activity in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province, however, it is because they know that the border area is no longer the central problem. Bhatti and Taseer's deaths should be a wake-up call: A new, more serious terrorism threat now emanates from Pakistan. Neither U.S. drone attacks nor Pakistani Army operations will be able to target terrorists in the Punjab's densely-populated cities, for collateral damage from any operation there would increase exponentially. Forcing Pakistan to take a zero tolerance approach to radicalism is the only solution. No longer should any country accept Pakistan's a la carte approach towards Islamist militancy, for if militants take firmer root in Punjab, they will be near impossible to excise. If the Punjab goes the route of Peshawar or Waziristan, then Pakistan is on the path to becoming the world's most populous failed state.


==Patent Reform Politics== 

Patent reform will pass – solves US innovation 

Barfield 3/30 -- resident scholar at AEI (Claude, “Patent Reform: A Rare Bipartisan Triumph for Innovation and Growth.” http://www.aei.org/article/103389) CMR 

Amid continuing partisan strife over the federal deficit, health care, and the EPA, buttressed by fanciful dreams and expenditures for "green technologies" and other budget-busting "investments in America's future," Congress, with strong support from the Obama administration, may well be on the verge of passing legislation that truly will enhance future U.S innovation and economic growth. On March 8, the Senate passed the "America Invents Act (S. 23) by a vote of 95-5. In the coming weeks, the House Judiciary Committee will process a companion bill; and if the two houses can reach accommodation, a technology-enhancing patent reform act will become law this year.
The 2011 Senate patent reform bill - as the near-unanimous Senate vote underscores - passed as a result of genuine bipartisan consultation and compromise. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-Vt), Charles Grassley (R-IA), and Oren Hatch (R-Utah), chairman and ranking minority members respectively of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and their staffs, spent many hours over the past two years working through the complicated substantive issues while attempting to accommodate diverse corporate sector interests and priorities. They received crucial help from Sen. John Kyle (R-AR.), whose staff crafted a breakthrough amendment and compromise on one of the most debated and contentious elements of the legislation (rules for administrative appeal hearings after the U.S. Patent Office has granted a patent).
The economic significance of the patent system -- and the importance of "getting it right" on legislative reform -- is underscored by numerous studies. In the United States, an estimated 30-40 percent of the gains in productivity and economic growth throughout the 20th century have been attributed to innovation in its various forms. In 2005, economists Kevin Hassett and Robert Shapiro calculated that the value of U.S. intellectual property (patents, copyrights, trademarks) was $5-5.5 trillion.
Within this world of knowledge and ideas, the patent system occupies a central place - a fact recognized by the Founding Fathers, who enshrined intellectual property in Article 8 of the Constitution, granting limited monopoly to inventors, artists and writers to "promote the progress in Science and the Useful Arts."
The U.S. patent system has evolved over time, and while in the broadest context it has worked quite well, problems and impediments to innovation have accumulated in recent decades. The challenge for the Congress, then, has been to craft targeted changes to the existing system that will remove those impediments, while retaining the flexibility and dynamism to adjust to future needs of U.S. entrepreneurs across diverse technological fields and sectors.
S. 23, the bill passed by the Senate, largely accomplishes these goals: it harmonizes U.S. patent policy with other nations' practices; it creates an administrative appeals system that carefully balances the rights of patent applicants with challengers; and it removes a number of subjective elements that have crept into the patent system. Finally - of equal importance - the Senators have exercised restraint in not second-guessing the courts in areas where judicial decisions are already settling a number of difficult questions.
Specifically, the Senate bill brings the United States into harmony with other national patent systems by changing to a first-inventor-to-file system from the existing first-to-invent system. The present practice has produced endless controversy - and litigation - over who actually had first inventor rights. Taking into account the concerns of some small inventors and academics, the legislation also provides a "grace period" of one year, during which the inventor's own disclosure (through a research article, for instance) would not defeat the right to obtain a patent.
Second, the bill attempts to mitigate the huge costs of patent litigation (average patent court litigations costs:$4-5 million) by establishing a post-grant administrative procedure aimed at settling challenges in a less costly and more expeditious fashion. S. 23 creates a 9-month window after a patent has been granted for an administrative proceeding in which any third party may challenge the initial determination of the patent office. It also continues a more constricted reexamination procedure (a so-called second window) that can be requested after the conclusion of the first appeal. These reexamination appeals, however, can only raise questions of novelty and non-obviousness derived from existing patents or printed material. Deadlines for both procedures ensure prompt action.
Third, the new legislation curtails or eliminates certain subjective elements of the patent process, the most significant being the requirement for an inventor to describe the "best mode" or practice of his or her invention - or risk later challenges or invalidation. The Senate removes a failure to disclose best mode as a defense for patent validity.
Finally, the Senate has wisely not attempted to second guess the federal courts in a number of areas where they have addressed difficult issues through interpretation of existing law. For instance, in one case, eBay v. mercExchange, the Supreme Court effectively reined in the excessive use of permanent injunctions by so-called patent "trolls," who had used the patent system to extort payments just to get out of the way. And in a second area, developing case law has established practical, appropriate principles for determining damages for patent infringement. As Dan Burk, a leading patent legal scholar, has stated: "a judicial response is often the fastest and most efficient way to address emerging issues."
House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX), and second ranking minority member Howard Berman (D.-CAL) both have long bipartisan experience and expertise in the area of patent law. In draft form (The bill has been published and will be formally introduced this week), the House bill is quite close to the Senate bill on most issues.
There is thus the expectation that in the coming weeks the House will also pass a patent reform bill by a sizeable majority. Then it will be up to the congressional leaders in both parties to shepherd a final product through a conference committee and on to the president for enactment before Congress departs in the fall.

PC Key 
Dutra 3/4 (IP center BNA “Obama Administration Puts Weight Behind Patent Reform Bill in Senate.” http://ipcenter.bna.com/pic2/ip.nsf/id/RSAR-8EKREU?OpenDocument) 

As the U.S. Senate began debate Feb. 28 on a patent reform bill, S. 23, six years in the making, the Obama administration in a “Statement of Administration Policy,” reinforced by a Commerce Department press conference the next day.
“The Administration supports Senate passage of S. 23,” the SAP began. “As a whole, this bill represents a fair, balanced, and necessary effort to improve patent quality, enable greater work sharing between the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and other countries, improve service to patent applicants and the public at the USPTO, and offer productive alternatives to costly and complex litigation.”
During the March 1 press conference, Commerce Secretary Gary F. Locke said, “The stars are aligned better than ever before,” predicting that Congress will pass a bill this year.
However, it is clear that the current S. 23 will be modified before patent reform can be finalized, as the administration acknowledged that key provisions are still being negotiated by key stakeholders.
'The America Invents Act.'
Originally titled “The Patent Reform Act of 2011,” S. 23 was renamed “The America Invents Act” as its primary sponsor, Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) began debate on the legislation in the Senate Feb. 28.
When the floor action continued March 1, Leahy added the SAP into the Senate record and said, “I thank all those from the administration who worked on this matter and, in particular, Secretary Locke, Director [David J.] Kappos of the Patent and Trademark Office and former [Commerce] Secretary [William M.] Daley.”
The bill was reported unanimously out of the Senate Judiciary Committee Feb. 3 (81 PTCJ 451, 2/11/11). Most of its provisions are now geared to modifying or adding procedures at the PTO, though a few provisions directed to litigation remain.
One probable floor amendment would put an end to Congress's right to take fees collected by the PTO and use the funds for other governmental purposes. That process, known as fee diversion, has been a point of contention between the judiciary committees of both houses, responsible for substantive law, and their respective appropriations committees, who perceive the funds to be little different from other government taxes.
The amendment is highly likely to be submitted on the Senate floor by Sen. Thomas A. Coburn (R-Okla.).
First Inventor to File, PTO Fee-Setting Highlighted.
The administration appears to be gearing up for a debate over S. 23's provision that would require a switch from the current first-to-invent system for determining inventorship to a first-inventor-to-file system. However, the proposed adoption of such a system is one of only two provisions in the bill specifically endorsed in the SAP.
“By moving the United States to a first-to-file system, the bill simplifies the process of acquiring rights,” according to the SAP. “This essential provision will reduce legal costs, improve fairness, and support U.S. innovators seeking to market their products and services in a global marketplace.”
During the Commerce Department press conference, Kappos made a point to assure independent inventors and small businesses--the most vocal critics of the first-inventor-to-file provision--that the change will advance their claims to ownership of inventions rather than favor large corporations.
The second provision cited favorably by the SAP--granting fee-setting authority to the PTO--has also been welcomed enthusiastically by most stakeholders. That provision, the administration said, would allow the PTO “to establish and adjust its fees to reflect changes in costs, demand, and workload, the bill would enhance productivity--reducing delay in the patent application process--and ensure full cost recovery at no taxpayer expense.”
The American Intellectual Property Law Association and the Intellectual Property Owners Association, however, have argued that the fee-setting provision must be tied to a provision banning fee diversion.
Both Kappos and Locke addressed the fee-diversion controversy in the press conference. Kappos noted that a ban on such reallocation of PTO resources is embedded in the president's fiscal year 2012 budget (81 PTCJ 483, 2/18/11). He was referring to the statement in the budget, “That the receipts collected as a result of these surcharges shall be available within the amounts provided herein to the United States Patent and Trademark Office without fiscal year limitation, for all authorized activities and operations of the Office.”
Locke predicted operational problems unless the agency can keep its fees. “Having fees diverted does not help us reform the patent process and get us down to what the industry wants” in terms of the pendency between patent application and a decision on its allowance, he said. “If we set our fees but the money is taken away, we could be going backwards, in fact,” he said, and the backlog of unexamined applications at the PTO may even increase.
But Administration Ready to Shed Litigation Pieces.
Patent reform efforts over the past six year were initially focused largely on substantive changes affecting patent infringement litigation, but recent decisions by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and the U.S. Supreme Court attempted to resolve some of those issues--such as the standards for granting injunctive relief in patent infringement actions, and for awarding damages for willful infringement. However, proposals for litigation reform continued to spark debate as the patent lingered.
Indeed, the most contentious issue in the last Congress was on the calculation of damages--despite the Federal Circuit attempts to clarify its jurisprudence on that issue over the past two years. Damages reform is proposed again in S. 23, and so is venue language limiting transfers of patent cases out of patentee-friendly courts--a topic that has also received considerable recent attention by the Federal Circuit.
Apparently recognizing the judicial advances, the SAP suggested that damages and venue reform might no longer be needed. “The Administration would not object to removal of these provisions from the final version of the legislation,” according to the SAP.
More Compromises to Come.
However, the SAP provided a hint that simply deleting those two provisions and adding a ban on fee diversion will not address all the anticipated concerns of stakeholders. “The Administration looks forward to continuing to work with the Congress to craft patent reform legislation that reflects sound policy and meets the needs of the Nation's innovators,” the SAP concluded.
In the press conference, Locke acknowledged that he has been meeting with industry leaders and “trying to work through compromises to get [a patent reform bill] enacted.”
He praised the communication between and mutual commitment by Leahy and Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Texas) as a sign that whatever controversies remain can be resolved.

[INSERT LINK] 

Key to space 
Taylor 8 (Tom, Lunar Transportation Systems, Vice president and senior member, “Outreach Development Public Private Partnership for Space Exploration”, http://tinyurl.com/Outreach-Development-Public-Pr)JFS
Continuing innovation and technology development is one way a global leader nation defines itself. Both happen in war and can happen in peace, if we think like President Lincoln. Innovation adds new dimensions to technology and sometimes comes from unexpected avenues. Innovation and how to stimulate it plus finance it is the subject of this paper. The opportunities available to mankind in the exploration of the universe are bigger than the Louisiana Purchase, and space commerce generally brings innovation and reduces costs in a competitive marketplace. Public Private Partnerships (PPP) are one method of expanding the money available to develop the opportunities. President Lincoln started the Transcontinental Railroad during our most costly war and it accelerated the development of the American West. Space exploration is a milestone for our species of a magnitude and opportunities never before encountered. Lincoln chose to stimulate others to finance the transportation into the American West by leapfrogging into building a railroad to the Pacific. America must again innovate, leapfrog our technology and build the partnerships plus the hardware stimulated by innovation and private investment to come forward and fill in the “gaps” in government space budgets. Space exploration innovation must energize our American economic engine and to “be what we can be.” We need to start the big projects that are not getting start by government space budgets alone. This innovation includes collecting energy in space for Earth use, developing trade routes beyond our home planet, joining nations to build projects, combining global government capabilities to solve climate problems and to use our resources in a peaceful manner, which is done everyday by global commerce. Society expects space tourism to produce low costs quickly, but entrepreneurs/financers need larger commercial markets on which bankers are comfortable. What are some examples of innovation that might impact our problems/solutions? Space Based Solar Power is perceived as so large and expensive everybody is scared to touch it for fear their budgets will be changed, yet it has become near term and very “GREEN” in its solution. Congress waits until problems are so large that massive solutions are forced instead of solving problems in a planned manner. Lunar bases are orders of magnitude more remote than bases on Earth, but lessons learned like the North Slope of Alaska can teach us about our first trade route beyond Earth including logistics and private financial development techniques. Within PPPs, government stretches space budgets, increases vehicle innovation without cost, with less cost to the taxpayers, and gains cost advantages of larger markets. This paper explores innovation and PPPs to bring governments and innovation together to stimulate financing to flourish in a world of dwindling resources. History will view lunar trade routes as a slow start after the Apollo landings in 1969, but the commerce possible from an evolving, affordable, two directional, sustainable trade route will definitely be a part of it, with at least one early transportation native financed privately to remain in operation after NASA moves on to explore the universe.

Solves 10^14 lives per second 
Bostrum, Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, 2002 (Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html)

As I write these words, suns are illuminating and heating empty rooms, unused energy is being flushed down black holes, and our great common endowment of negentropy is being irreversibly degraded into entropy on a cosmic scale. These are resources that an advanced civilization could have used to create value-structures, such as sentient beings living worthwhile lives.
The rate of this loss boggles the mind. One recent paper speculates, using loose theoretical considerations based on the rate of increase of entropy, that the loss of potential human lives in our own galactic supercluster is at least ~10^46 per century of delayed colonization.[1] This estimate assumes that all the lost entropy could have been used for productive purposes, although no currently known technological mechanisms are even remotely capable of doing that. Since the estimate is meant to be a lower bound, this radically unconservative assumption is undesirable.
We can, however, get a lower bound more straightforwardly by simply counting the number or stars in our galactic supercluster and multiplying this number with the amount of computing power that the resources of each star could be used to generate using technologies for whose feasibility a strong case has already been made. We can then divide this total with the estimated amount of computing power needed to simulate one human life.
As a rough approximation, let us say the Virgo Supercluster contains 10^13 stars. One estimate of the computing power extractable from a star and with an associated planet-sized computational structure, using advanced molecular nanotechnology[2], is 10^42 operations per second.[3] A typical estimate of the human brain’s processing power is roughly 10^17 operations per second or less.[4] Not much more seems to be needed to simulate the relevant parts of the environment in sufficient detail to enable the simulated minds to have experiences indistinguishable from typical current human experiences.[5] Given these estimates, it follows that the potential for approximately 10^38 human lives is lost every century that colonization of our local supercluster is delayed; or equivalently, about 10^31 potential human lives per second. While this estimate is conservative in that it assumes only computational mechanisms whose implementation has been at least outlined in the literature, it is useful to have an even more conservative estimate that does not assume a non-biological instantiation of the potential persons. Suppose that about 10^10 biological humans could be sustained around an average star. Then the Virgo Supercluster could contain 10^23 biological humans. This corresponds to a loss of potential equal to about 10^14 potential human lives per second of delayed colonization. What matters for present purposes is not the exact numbers but the fact that they are huge. Even with the most conservative estimate, assuming a biological implementation of all persons, the potential for one hundred trillion potential human beings is lost for every second of postponement of colonization of our supercluster.[6]


==Korea Case Stuff== 

The US is not at fault here – NK is repeatedly provoking and will take the bait to start a conflict 

Klinger 3/10 -- Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at The Heritage Foundation (Bruce, “North Korea – a Multi-Faceted Threat to Peace and Stability.” http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/03/north-korea-a-multi-faceted-threat-to-peace-and-stability) CMR 

It was premised that the departure of the Bush Administration would lead North Korea to no longer feel threatened and therefore it would refrain from any further provocations. New efforts at dialogue would lead to dramatic improvements in U.S.-North Korean relations and breakthroughs in the Six-Party Talks.
Instead, Pyongyang quickly sent clear signals that it would not adopt a more accommodating stance post-Bush. On the eve of President Obama’s inauguration, the North Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs declared the existing Six-Party Talks agreements were void since Pyongyang had new demands. Only two days after Obama’s inauguration, unclassified satellite imagery photos showed Pyongyang was already preparing for a Taepo Dong-2 missile launch in violation of U.N. resolutions.
Pyongyang also conducted a rapid-fire series of provocations in 2009. North Korea responded to President Obama’s soft touch by threatening to weaponize all of its plutonium and build more nuclear weapons, abandoning all previous disarmament pledges, and vowing to “never return” to the already moribund Six-Party Talks.
The regime also launched several missiles in violation of U.N. resolutions; conducted a nuclear test; abrogated the Korean War armistice and all bilateral agreements with South Korea; threatened war against the United States, South Korea, and Japan; threatened the safety of civilian airliners; and closed its border, holding hundreds of South Koreans hostage.
As a result, 2009 saw the death of a lot of cherished misperceptions about engaging North Korea. Pyongyang’s biting the offered open hand of dialogue backfired on the regime since it caused a belated epiphany among U.S. experts that Pyongyang, and not the various U.S. policies over the years under successive administrations, was to blame for the North Korean nuclear problem.

SK beligerance responsible for provocations not US presence 

Hart-Landsberg 12/31 -- professor of economics and director of the Political Economy Program at Lewis and Clark College, Portland, Oregon (“Martin Hart-Landsberg: What’s happening on the Korean Peninsula?.” Internatoinal journal of socialist renewal. http://links.org.au/node/2080) CMR 

What about the most recent incident involving the North Korean artillery attack on Yeonpyeong Island? The South Korean position is that its military was merely engaged in ”routine” war games (involving over 70,000 troops), which also happened to include the firing of live ammunition into the sea from a military base on the island. It had done nothing to provoke a North Korean artillery attack on the base.
In reality, the South had been strengthening its artillery on the island for some time, engaging in ever more aggressive (non-live ammunition) artillery drills with the apparent aim of boosting its capacity to inhibit the movement of the North Korean navy even in its own waters. These drills were a direct threat to North Korean security given how close the island is to its coast.
Moreover, although the South claims that its war games and artillery fire were routine, it may be the first time that the South has staged major war games and simultaneously engaged in firing live ammunition into territory claimed by the North. The North fired on the South Korean artillery batteries located on Yeonpyeong Island only after its repeated demands that the South stop its live ammunition firing were rejected by the South.

Provocations good –

No offense – they lead to sustained peace through forcing negotiations 

Klinger 3/10 -- Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at The Heritage Foundation (Bruce, “North Korea – a Multi-Faceted Threat to Peace and Stability.” http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/03/north-korea-a-multi-faceted-threat-to-peace-and-stability) CMR 

Charm Offensive. Yet, none of this precludes the potential for resumed dialogue. North Korean provocations have often laid the groundwork for negotiations. Pyongyang used its annual New Year’s Day joint editorial to initiate a new charm offensive. The shift in tactics is consistent with standard North Korean negotiating behavior to alternate between provocations and seemingly conciliatory behavior to attain its goals.
Pyongyang realizes it must lower tensions on the Korean Peninsula and appear to be a reasonable negotiating partner. In order to resume dialogue with Washington, Pyongyang understands it must fulfill one of the Obama Administration’s preconditions by first reaching out to South Korea.


===AT TNW Redeployment=== 

No redeployment 

a. Your evidence is lies that have been refuted by the white house 

Kwon 3/2 (Kwon Tae-ho, Washington Correspondent for the hankyoreh, http://www.hani.co.kr/arti/english_edition/e_northkorea/466051.html) CMR 

The White House officially reaffirmed Monday (local time) that it has no plans to redeploy tactical nuclear weapons in South Korea.
White House National Security Council (NSC) deputy spokesman Robert Jensen said that the position of the Barack Obama administration is that “tactical nuclear weapons are unnecessary for the defense of South Korea” and that the administration has “no plan or intention to return them.”
Jensen also stated emphatically that the administration’s policy “remains in support of a non-nuclear Korean Peninsula” and that “there is no plan to change that policy.”
Additionally, the NSC said that it respects the Korean Peninsula denuclearization statement agreed upon in 1991, that it has no plans for changing its current non-nuclear Korean Peninsula policy, and that no plans for reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons are being examined.
“This is not an issue that is under active consideration,” Stephen Bosworth, special representative for North Korea policy, told Tuesday the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
In its Monday issue, the JoongAng Ilbo quoted White House Coordinator for Arms Control and Weapons of Mass Destruction Gary Saymore as saying, as his personal opinion, “If South Korea, a U.S. ally, were to feel threatened by North Korea’s nuclear development and request that U.S. tactical nuclear weapons be redeployed, the United States would naturally agree to it.”
Observers say Jensen’s remarks appear to be intended to quickly put to rest a needless debate by directly articulating a clear position, out of concerns that the controversy could easily blow up as Saymore’s remarks add fuel to calls by conservative politicians in South Korea for tactical nuclear weapon redeployment.
The reintroduction of tactical nuclear weapons on the Korean Peninsula would run counter to the current of the Obama administration’s nuclear policy, which is characterized by calls for nuclear weapons reduction and non-proliferation.
In a Nuclear Posture Review released in April 2010, the Obama administration clearly stated the U.S.’s intention of both limiting the use of nuclear weapons and removing tactical nuclear weapons deployed in Europe. President Obama has pushed for additional discussions with Moscow to follow up the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) between the United States and Russia with tactical nuclear weapons reductions. He also plans to propose discussions with Beijing to ensure transparency in nuclear weapons programs.


==Korea CP== 

TEXT: The United States federal government should: 

- End the doctrine of “strategic flexibility” as it relates to U.S. posture in South Korea;
- Enlist Russia to begin informal talks with North Korea discussing the dangers of nuclear deterrence.

Strategic flexibility gives deterrence uniqueness and makes NK chill 

McDevitt 2011 -- Vice President and Director, CNA Strategic Studies (Michael, Brookings, “Deterring North Korean Provocations.” http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2011/02_north_korea_mcdevitt.aspx) CMR **italics in original

Another related consideration is the issue of what is termed “strategic flexibility” as it relates to U.S. posture in Korea. The concept is intended to characterize the ultimate end state for the U.S. posture on the peninsula, and attempts to mirror the U.S. posture in Japan. In short, the idea expresses the belief that U.S. forces in place for the defense of South Korea could also be employed off the peninsula for other regional contingencies.
Perhaps it is time to reconsider this idea in order to send a signal that the U.S. is not interested in implying by its actions a weakened commitment to the defense of South Korea. Taking strategic flexibility off the table would be a step the alliance could take to impress upon Pyongyang that the defense of South Korea is still its central task, and that the United States is not intimidated by the fact that Pyongyang has a nuclear capability that puts U.S. forces in Korea at risk.

Telling Russia to tell NK to chill solves war

Cha 12/6 (“What to Do About N. Korean Aggression?.” http://csis.org/files/publication/101206_Revised_Chosun-Ilbo_Op-ed.pdf) CMR 
Second, the U.S., South Korea, and Japan should seek a resolution from the UN authorizing the use of force in self-defense at the next North Korean provocation. China will oppose both measures, in which case it should stop North Korea's provocations. Third, the U.S. should enlist Russia to begin informal talks with North Korea about nuclear deterrence. The purpose of such talks would be to undercut any false notions Kim might have that a few nukes in the basement permit him to provoke recklessly. These are extreme measures but they befit the gravity of the situation.


==Korea Deterrence Updates== 

Credibility key 
Hakan Tunc¸ (htunc@connect.carleton.ca) teaches Political Science at Carleton University, Canada. Currently, he is involved in various research projects about U.S. foreign policy toward terrorism, the Iraq war, and Afghanistan, Fall, 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669
Reputation can be deﬁned as a judgment about an actor’s past behavior and character that is used to predict future behavior. In international politics, a major component of building or maintaining a country’s reputation involves resolve. 5 Policy makers may believe that a lack of resolve in one military confrontation will be seen as an indication of general weakness. 6 According to Shiping Tang, this concern frequently amounts to ‘‘a cult of reputation’’ among foreign policy makers, which he deﬁnes as ‘‘a belief system holding as its central premise a conviction (or fear) that backing down in a crisis will lead one’s adversaries or allies to underestimate one’s resolve in the next crisis.’’7 Of particular importance to the cult of reputation is concern about the consequences of withdrawal from a theater of war. The major dictate of the cult of reputation is that a country should stand ﬁrm and refuse to withdraw from a theater of war. The underlying belief is that a withdrawal would inﬂict a severe blow to a country’s reputation and thus ‘‘embolden’’ the adversaries by boosting commitment and recruitment to their cause. 8

Credibility first 

Bush 2/24 -- Senior Fellow and Director, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies The Brookings Institution (Richard III, transcript of interview/round table discussion, “U.S. EXTENDED DETERRENCE IN EAST ASIA.” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/events/2011/0224_extended%20_deterrence/20110224_extended_deterrence.pdf) CMR

I’d like to make seven points in talking about extended deterrence in Asia. First of all, as Steve has indicated, extended deterrence is all about the credibility of threats. If North Korea is considering the use of force to unify the peninsula, it’s more likely to abandon those plans if it is certain that the United States will react on its threat to retaliate. Pyongyang is more likely to go ahead if it concludes that the threats are idle, either because Washington does not signal well or because North Korea underestimates the U.S. resolve due to its own faulty perception. South Korea must have a high degree of confidence in our defense pledge as well; otherwise it faces the stark choice between appeasement on the one hand and an independent defense policy. 

US credible now – and that is most important – turns korea conflict 

McDevitt 2011 -- Vice President and Director, CNA Strategic Studies (Michael, Brookings, “Deterring North Korean Provocations.” http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2011/02_north_korea_mcdevitt.aspx) CMR **italics in original**

**“Broadly defined, deterrence is the threat of force intended to convince a potential aggressor not to undertake a particular action because the costs will be unacceptable or the probability of success extremely low.”[1] In other words, deterrence comes in two forms—deterrence by punishment and deterrence by denial. In the first instance, potential aggressors are deterred by the prospect of having to endure unacceptable punishment in response to an aggressive act. In the second case, deterrence by denial, the potential aggressor is deterred because defenses are so good that the aggressor concludes that it could not achieve its political and military objectives through use of force. In Korea, the U.S.-ROK alliance combines both of these approaches—a strong defense that can deny success, buttressed with the promise of overwhelming retaliation in the event of an invasion from the north.**
**For either of these forms of deterrence to be successful what is threatened in response to aggression or a hostile act must be believable, or as it is commonly cast, must be credible. Credibility in turn, derives from a combination of military capability and a belief in the minds of North Korean leaders that the alliance has the political will to act. There is no doubt that the U.S.-ROK allies have the political will to respond to an invasion; hence the conditions necessary for a credible deterrent, capability and political will, are met.**

**Doing drills**

**GNT 2/27 (Guyana News Today, “”North Korea Threatens To Attack South Korea And The U.S..”**
**http://guyananewstoday.com/category/world-news/page/9/) CMR**

**Seoul - The armed forces of South Korea and the United States on Monday launched planned joint military exercises as the North denounced the drills as preparations for an invasion.**
**About 200,000 South Korean and 12,800 US troops were to take part in the 11-day exercises, known as Key Resolve and focused on computer-based war games, the Yonhap News Agency reported, quoting officials from South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff.**
**The manoeuvres were to be followed by field training exercises under the name Foal Eagle, planned to run until April 30.**
**The drills were meant to reinforce the US-South Korean alliance and 'demonstrate our mutual commitment to defending the Republic of Korea,' a statement by the US-South Korean Combined Forces Command said.**


**NPR solves**

**McDevitt 2011 -- Vice President and Director, CNA Strategic Studies (Michael, Brookings, “Deterring North Korean Provocations.” http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2011/02_north_korea_mcdevitt.aspx) CMR** italics in original

The Obama administration has been attentive to the importance of extended deterrence, the provision of the so-called nuclear umbrella to friends and allies threatened by states like North Korea that possess or are seeking nuclear weapons. Historically, extended deterrence has been based on the combination of the strategic nuclear triad (sea-, air-, and land-based delivery platforms), tactical or non-strategic nuclear weapons permanently stationed abroad, and U.S.-based weapons that could be deployed quickly in the case of emergencies.[6]
Since President George H.W. Bush’s direction, there have been no nuclear weapons in South Korea since the early 1990s. The April 2010 Nuclear Posture Review makes clear, however, that the U.S. depends on,” …the capacity to re-deploy non-strategic systems in East Asia if needed in times of crisis.”[7] These explicit comments in an official statement of U.S. policy are clearly aimed at North Korea. The language is clear: the U.S. has both the capacity and policy in place to reintroduce tactical nuclear weapons to the Korean peninsula, and the aircraft to deliver them, should the situation dictate. This is an important aspect of extended deterrence as it applies to potential North Korean use of a nuclear weapon.

All indicators show US is credible in SQ 

Jansson 3/17 -- deputy director for the Project on Nuclear Issues, CSIS (Mark, “Carrier Diplomacy to Nuclear Diplomacy on the Korean Peninsula.” CSIS http://csis.org/blog/carrier-diplomacy-nuclear-diplomacy-korean-peninsula) CMR 

Putting aside a scenario in which this particular escalatory step serves as the one that inspires China to take decisive action to reverse North Korea’s nuclear program, the other presumed benefit would be that this step will have unique effects on North Korea that the subs, destroyers, troops and aircraft carriers in the region, not to mention all other manner of U.S. military capability, have not yet been able to induce. However, it is already abundantly clear that the U.S. has both the capability and longstanding affirmations of intent – solidified in the Nuclear Posture Review Report, establishment of the Extended Deterrence Policy Committee, etc. – to protect South Korea with its nuclear weapons, so it’s hard to see what will be gained by pursuing new ways of demonstrating to North Korea what it already knows. While the U.S. and South Korea can trouble themselves ad infitum about whether or not they have done enough to convince North Korea – and for that matter, China – of their solidarity, we are already running out of room for ways to up the ante through demonstrations of power. And while it seems reasonable to assume that continuing to increase the military footprint, or making it a more nuclear one, will make things better by posing an ever graver threat to North Korea, there is also a danger of getting stuck in a mode of thinking linearly about the problem and, in so doing, come to believe that simply rattling the sabers harder will correct the failures of past saber rattling to achieve desired effects. 


US Asian power projection high now 

Paal 12/9 -- vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Douglas, Carnegie foundation, “The Rise of China and Alliance in East Asia: Implications for Diplomatic Truce.” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42110&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+CarnegieEndowmentForInternationalPeaceGeneralPublicationsAndEvents+(DC+-+General+Publications+and+Events)

The familiar post-World War II order of U.S.-centered “hub and spokes” relationships appears somewhat surprisingly to endure into the twenty-first century, providing the core security counterweight to prevent the region’s strong centrifugal forces from overwhelming its weaker centripetal forces, a classic balance-of-power function. The strength of the U.S. alliance structure—whether welcome or not in Beijing or elsewhere—appears still to act as a brake on rash action to enforce old claims and settle old scores through military means.
For example, China muted its protests over the George Washington exercising recently in the Yellow Sea, after its North Korean ally rashly fired artillery into the South. Beijing saw that Washington is determined to meet its obligations to Seoul and protests would be unavailing. China preemptively sent only “fishing administration” vessels to make its points in the Diaoyu Islands, choosing not to send naval vessels that could have triggered a tough response under the U.S.-Japanese alliance of mutual defense treaty. This sort of restraint suggests a resident wisdom that should be acknowledged and encouraged.
China could not have been entirely pleased that the foreign ministers of the three allies met unusually in Washington this week to respond to the new signs of disorder. Yet, it remains engaged in diplomacy to seek a solution to the current tensions, as seen in the telephone conversation between Presidents Hu and Obama on Sunday. So long as the United States remains willing and able to provide what is necessary to sustain the region’s security and stability—while keeping open the door to negotiation—the prospect for the region’s smaller powers seems safe enough.
Now, this brings me to the heart of the matter: Is the United States going to be willing and able to do its part to sustain the region’s security and stability over the long haul? In the face of seemingly unsustainable fiscal deficits at home, a sense of growing economic inequality, and political gridlock, should the region begin to prepare for a day when the United States cannot or will not make a decisive difference in the balance of power in the region?
As China closes the technology gap between itself and modern armed forces—and does so on the rising tide of a still rapidly growing GDP—it has already, in the words of Defense Secretary Bob Gates, ended the “sanctuary” status of the Western Pacific, which the United States enjoyed for the previous six decades. In these more contested environs, can America’s partners in the region trust the United States to be able to deliver the right forces, at the right time, to deter or defeat aggression?
For the near term, the answer is clearly “yes.” Just look at the scale and intensity of the recent exercises conducted with South Korea and Japan. If anything, recent events have reinforced alliance relationships that wobbled over the past five or so years with these allies, as they experimented with ideas of greater equidistance between Beijing and Washington. I cite the joint foreign ministers meeting in Washington this week as a clear example.
The United States is importantly engaged in a quiet “strategic rebalancing,” as over time it extracts itself from Iraq and Afghanistan and reallocates resources to the Pacific. The Obama administration has made a welcome commitment to reactivate American involvement in the region, from India through Southeast Asia to Northeast Asia. And it has followed through with actions reflecting its recognition of the region’s growing gravitational pull.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]