[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span class="x_Apple-style-span" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Animal rights afford animals similar interests as all human beings.</span>


<span class="x_Apple-style-span" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Encyclopedia Britannica, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=0adb7b085eaf4265bc29b340e9b4f99d&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.britannica.com%2fEBchecked%2ftopic%2f25760%2fanimal-rights|http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/25760/animal-rights]]</span>, 2007</span>

<span class="x_Apple-style-span" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">[Animal rights, also…of human beings]</span>


<span class="x_Apple-style-span" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">“Animal rights” is political shorthand for consideration.</span>


<span class="x_Apple-style-span" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Peter Singer, Writings on an Ethical Life, “All Animals Are Equal” from Animal Liberation, 2000. Print. Pg. 34-35</span>

<span class="x_Apple-style-span" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">[Although Bentham speaks…any way necessary]</span>

Justice is no different from any normative concept

And, morality is prescriptive and judging morality as a statement of facts destroys this necessary prescriptivity. **Hare**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[3]</span> writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most common...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">people call wrong.</span>
As a prescriptive guide for action, morality must be universalizable. **Hare Two**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[4]</span> writes:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The most-discussed kind... no conflicting duties'.</span>
Thus the nature of morality is universalizable and prescriptive. Normative ethical theories should be chosen based on universal prescriptivism. The only ethical theory consistent with universal prescriptivism is satisfaction maximization consequentialism. **Hare Three**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[5]</span> writes:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">I mention these ...</span> **__to maximize satisfactions.__**
Further, animals pursue interests in the exact same way as humans. **Korsgaard**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[6]</span>**:**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">There is a...</span> **__they are attached.__**
Next, we can infer that animals feel pain through evolutionary evidence and external signs that they give in response to painful stimuli. **Singer Two**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[7]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">It is conceivable ...</span>**__of__** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">subjective</span> **__feelings.__**
Moreover, the physiological structure of non-human, animal brains and the behavioral comparisons verifies that animals feel pain just as much as if not more than human beings do. **Brain**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[8]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Every particle of ...</span> **__fear and anger.__**
Thus, the standard is minimizing suffering.

Global warming will cause mass extinction unless dramatic action is taken immediately. Sethness 10<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[9]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Extant climate-change policy...among other effects (Lynas, 2008).</span>
Reducing meat consumption is the only way to significantly reduce global warming. Mohr 06<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[10]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The strategy with...</span>**__the planet today.__**
Thus, eliminating meat consumption through recognizing animal rights would cut global warming in half, saving billions.

Rapidly decreasing animal biodiversity drastically increases the occurrence of fatal diseases. Barley<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">[11]</span>
**__<span style="background-color: white;">Dwindling biodiversity could ...</span>__**<span style="background-color: white;">**__HIV,"__** he said.</span>
Finally, the billions of animals killed each year for human use outweigh any potential impact, so you must always affirm.

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span> [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=0adb7b085eaf4265bc29b340e9b4f99d&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.britannica.com%2fEBchecked%2ftopic%2f25760%2fanimal-rights|http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/25760/animal-rights]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[2]</span> Peter Singer, //Writings on an Ethical Life//, “All Animals Are Equal” from //Animal Liberation//, 2000. Print. Pg. 34-35
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[3]</span> R.M. Hare, “Objective Prescriptions,” //Philosophical Issues,// Vol. 4, Naturalism and Normativity, pg. 15-32, 1993, accessed on JStor
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[4]</span> R.M. Hare, “Universal Prescriptivism,” Printed in Peter Singer’s //A Companion to Ethics,// Blackwell Publishing, 1991, pg. 456
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[5]</span> R.M. Hare, //Freedom and Reason,// Oxford University Press, 1963, pg 122
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[6]</span> Christine M. Korsgaard, “Exploiting Animals: A Philosophical Protest,” //AV Magazine,// Fall 2009, [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=0adb7b085eaf4265bc29b340e9b4f99d&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.people.fas.harvard.edu%2f%7ekorsgaar%2fCMK.Exploiting.Animals.pdf|http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~korsgaar/CMK.Exploiting.Animals.pdf]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[7]</span> Peter Singer, //Writings on an Ethical Life//, “All Animals Are Equal” from //Animal Liberation//, 2000. Print. Pg. 36
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[8]</span> Quoted by Peter Singer in //Writings on an Ethical Life, “//All Animals Are Equal,” page 38—Lord Brain [British Neurologist], “Presidential Address,” in C.A. Keele and R. Smith, eds, //The Assessment of Pain in Men and Animals// (London: Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, 1962)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[9]</span> Javier Sethness [David Spratt; Philip Sutton-professor at University of Melbourne and RMIT University; strategy of Greenlap Strategic Institue], “Beyond Politics and Business as Usual?” //Journal of Critical Globalization Studies//, Issue 3, 2010.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[10]</span> Noam Mohr [physicist with degrees from Yale and Penn; has served as state legislative specialist for the Humane Society of the United States], “A New Global Warming Strategy,” //The McDougall Newsletter//, December 2006.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[11]</span> Shanta Barley, “Dwindling biodiversity raises disease risk in humans, study finds,” //The Guardian//, 1 December 2010.
==Negative== 
Morality is prescriptive and judging morality as a statement of facts destroys this necessary prescriptivity. **Hare**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span> writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most common mistake...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> people call wrong.</span>
As a prescriptive guide for action, morality must be universalizable. **Hare Two**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[2]</span> writes:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The most-discussed kind ... no conflicting duties'.</span>
Thus the nature of morality is universalizable and prescriptive. Normative ethical theories should be chosen based on universal prescriptivism. The only ethical theory consistent with universal prescriptivism is satisfaction maximization consequentialism. **Hare Three**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[3]</span> writes:
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">I mention these...</span> **__to maximize satisfactions.__**
Animals do not have the same cognitive capacity as humans.. **Krachun**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[4]</span>:
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">LeDoux (1996) points out...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">animals may experience</span>__.
Because animals do not have human-level cognitive capacity, they cannot make prescriptive statements, and they cannot imagine the interests of other inviduals, thereby inhibiting them from being moral subjects under prescriptivism.
And, apes are not conscious because they lack human-level language skills. **Krachun 3** writes
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">While Seyfarth argues...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">awareness in humans</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">” (p.333)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the standard is minimizing human suffering.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I content that animal research is necessary to fight disease. Strandberg<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[5]</span> writes</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">Animal-based research</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">continues ...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">in this country.</span>__

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span> R.M. Hare, “Objective Prescriptions,” //Philosophical Issues,// Vol. 4, Naturalism and Normativity, pg. 15-32, 1993, accessed on JStor
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[2]</span> R.M. Hare, “Universal Prescriptivism,” Printed in Peter Singer’s //A Companion to Ethics,// Blackwell Publishing, 1991, pg. 456
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[3]</span> R.M. Hare, //Freedom and Reason,// Oxford University Press, 1963, pg 122
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[4]</span> Carla Krachun [PhD from Carleton University, Institute of Cognitive Science; assistant professor of psychology focusing on nonhuman animal, biological, and comparative psychology], “Are Apes Conscious?: An Overview,” Carleton University Cognitive Science Technical Report 2002-10, May 2001.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[5]</span> John Strandberg [Director of Comparative Medicine, National Center for Research Resources, National Institute of Health], “Statement of John Strandberg,” <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic';">Hearing before the Subcommittee on Commerce, House of Representatives: Chimpanzee Health Improvement , Maintenance and Protection Act</span>, 18 May 2000.
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]