[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span class="Underline">Plan Text</span>== 
<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should deploy weapons in space beyond the earth’s mesosphere.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Contention 1 is Uniqueness</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Space weaponization is inevitable – it can’t be a sanctuary </span>
<span class="Underline">Sheldon, professor of air and space studies, and Gray, IR prof, ‘11 -- * Marshall Institute Fellow, and a visiting professor at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University, AND ** prof of International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, United Kingdom (John B. and Colin, “Theory Ascendant?: Spacepower and the Challenge of Strategic Theory” in “Toward a Theory of Space Power: selected essays” ed. Lutes and Hayes, published 2011. http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf) </span>
<span class="Underline">The idea that space can redeem human sin still persists in many quarters. The reason for this persistence is as much about the perception of space as a place, and what that place purports to represent, as it is about the technologies required for its manned and unmanned exploration and use. This particular way of framing space can be described as astrofuturism, which "posits the space frontier as a site of renewal, a place where we can resolve the domestic and global battles that have paralyzed our progress on earth."45 We believe that space as a place is no different from the land, sea, and air, and we reject the astrofuturist credo as a fallacy. Human beings and their robotic proxies operate and (in the case of the land) live every day in these environments, carrying out myriad functions from the spiritual and artistic to the martial (and these are by no means mutually exclusive). Our entry into space must respect the human condition in its entirety, good and bad, and attempts to redeem human nature through the wonders of technology or hopes that the infinite expanse of space will offer the opportunity to unite humankind where our existence on Earth has failed are bound to disappoint. It is tragic but true that "short of a revolution in the heart of man and the nature of states, by what miracle could interplanetary space be preserved from military use?"46 Strategy, Eternal and Universal In the quest for a theory of spacepower, it is perhaps wise to first state categorically what such a theory should not be. In particular, a theory of spacepower should not be at odds with the universal and eternal logic of strategy. Instead, it should be a theory of its use in the service of strategy. Edward N. Luttwak points out that to postulate such a thing as "nuclear strategy," "naval strategy," or, in this case, "space strategy" is to argue that each of these kinds of strategy is somehow fundamentally different from the strategy that governs them all. Luttwak writes, "If there were such a thing as naval strategy or air strategy or nuclear strategy in any sense other than a conflation of the technical, tactical, or operational levels of the same universal strategy, then each should have its own peculiar logic."47 A theory of spacepower should not claim such a "peculiar logic," and the foundations for this theory should be cognizant and respectful of a superior and overarching logic of strategy. Sir Julian Corbett wrote of the purpose of theory in strategy: [open quote] It is a process by which we co-ordinate our ideas, define the meaning of the words we use, grasp the difference between essential and unessential factors, and fix and expose the fundamental data on which every one is agreed. In this way we prepare the apparatus of practical discussion; we secure the means of arranging the factors in manageable shape, and of deducing from them with precision and rapidity a practical course of action. Without such an apparatus no two men can even think on the same line; much less can they ever hope to detach the real point of difference that divides them and isolate it for quiet solution.48 [unquote] Given the relative infancy of spacepower, it is important that sensible theoretical foundations be established. Spacepower has made itself ubiquitous in modern war and statecraft, yet discerning a strategic experience of spacepower has proved to be notoriously difficult. Over time, strategic experience will doubtless accumulate, and so eventually a comprehensive theory of spacepower will develop and evolve synergistically with its actual practice. Although spacepower is relatively new, the need for theory is not. As Corbett's thoughts suggest, a theory of spacepower should provide a common framework from which all can refer and a conceptual means by which spacepower is exploited to its full potential in order to attain policy objectives. Pragmatism That said, a theory of spacepower must guard against a creeping inflexibility and orthodoxy that stifle innovative thinking or constructive criticism. It will evolve along with its actual use, and it may be found that some tenets of spacepower thought are in fact wrong. A theory of space-power must also guard against flights of fancy and overactive imaginations that make theory useless as a guide to practice. Spacepower could be especially susceptible to such problems given that it is, conceptually, a blank canvas and is bound up for many people with science fiction. Spacepower is not science fiction, and its intellectual guardians, the theorists, much like the protagonists in the "widening gyre" of W.B. Yeats's "The Second Coming" who are either "lacking all conviction" or are "full of passionate intensity,"49 must take care to protect it from the ignorance of some and the worst excesses of others. Theorists of spacepower, and practitioners who would read such theory, must always be mindful of the fact that strategy "is nothing if not pragmatic," and that "strategic theory is a theory for action."50 A theory of spacepower that is disrespectful of the practicalities of spaceflight and orbitology, the limits of technology, and the eternal, universal workings of strategy could be worse than useless; it could be dangerous. The Nature of Spacepower To repeat, spacepower is not beyond the logic of strategy, nor can it be. Strategy is eternal in its nature and logic, and while the grammar and character of strategy evolve because of changes in their many dimensions such as society, politics, and technology, strategy's fundamental nature does not. Spacepower is subject to the nature of strategy and always will be. The nature of spacepower is simply the ability to use space for political purposes, and that too will never change. John G. Fox is only partially correct when he states, "The nature and character of space warfare 50 years from now may be wholly unrecognizable to those of us alive today."51 Fox is probably correct in that the character of spacepower will change over the next 50 years, due perhaps to unforeseen technological developments. He is wrong, however, to state that the nature of spacepower is changeable; it is not. So long as humankind possesses the ability to exploit the space environment, then the nature of spacepower is immutable and impervious to societal, political, economic, technological, or any other kind of change.</span>


<span class="Underline">It’s happening now – there are multiple military challengers to US space superiority</span>
<span class="Underline">Gopalaswamy and Wang 10 [Bharath-Senior Research Scholar @ Cornell University, defense fellow @ the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, PhD in Mechanical Engineering, Ting-Post doc fellow @ the Judith V Reppy Center for Space and Conflict Studies, Cornell University, Science Direct, “The Science and Politics of an Indian ASAT Capability”]</span>

<span class="Underline">The revolution in military affairs has compelled actors such as China, Russia, and the USA to emphasize the use of space to support national security in their military doctrines, and thus space assets have become a critical component of their national security infrastructures. In particular, space support for defence operations on the ground has long been established. Worldwide spending for ground support is estimated at billions of dollars for programmes that provide military attack warning, communications, weather forecasting, reconnaissance and weapons guidance applications.1 Spending on these types of programmes by nations such as India, China, France, Germany, Israel, Italy and Spain is increasing; security being the main driver. In the absence of dedicated military satellites, these actors are resorting to using their civilian space satellites for applications such as communications, imagery, etc.2 With the increased emphasis on the military uses of space has come an interest in anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons. Speaking in early 2010, Indian Air Chief Marshal P.V. Naik argued for the development of an Indian anti-satellite missile system. “Our satellites are vulnerable to ASAT weapon systems because our neighborhood possesses one,” Naik said while delivering the Air Chief Marshal L.M. Katre memorial lecture. He underlined the need for India to develop ASAT technology and referred to it as “one of our challenges of future war capability.”3 In this paper we analyse the context in which India must decide on pursuing an ASAT capability and the implications of such a decision for Indian security. The growing military use of space has increased the probability that satellites will be targeted should a conflict break out. In January 2007 China became the third country (after the USA and Russia) to test an ASAT weapon. The large debris field created by the Chinese test underlined the potential for a conflict in space to damage the commercial space activities and long-term economic interests of both combatant and non-combatant countries. Although this debris issue has achieved a reasonable amount of publicity in India, Indian officials have been putting greater public emphasis on developing their own hit-to-kill capabilities and, particularly in the past few months, have been quite open in calling for India to develop its own ASAT weapons.4 Given India’s extensive commitments to space activities, its concerns regarding a demonstrated Chinese ASAT capability may be legitimate and justifiable. However, it is important to assess whether a response in kind is an appropriate one. Over the past 20 years, the use of outer space has both increased and changed dramatically. From the dawn of the Space Age to the end of the Cold War Russia and the USA were the world’s only major space powers. However, in recent years the accessibility of space has increased and continues to increase, with new states building satellites, developing launchers and starting space agencies. The 2010 Space Security Index reports that, as of 2009, almost 10 countries have independent orbital launch capabilities, and around 60 nations have assets in space.5 India’s interests in space are manifold and it can be classified as a country that relies heavily on space. In the field of telecommunications and broadcasting the liberalization policies adopted by the Indian government have expanded the role of the private sector in telecommunications and broadcasting, thus increasing the number of stakeholders in the field of space technology. Among India’s substantial investments in space are the 11 INSAT (Indian Satellite) satellites with 211 transponders for broadcasting and communications. These satellites are the mainstay for television broadcasting and provide connectivity to more than 1100 TV transmitters.6 They also provide rural area communications, business communication, and tele-education and telemedicine services. The INSAT satellites include very high resolution radiometers for producing cyclone warnings, gathering meteorological data, assisting emergency communication for weather forecasting, providing support during disasters and aiding search and rescue missions. The eight-satellite Indian Remote Sensing system (IRS) comprises some of the best satellites in the world for generating information on natural resources. Data from the IRS satellites are used for a variety of applications such as drought monitoring, flood-risk zone mapping, urban planning, forest survey, environmental impact analysis and coastal studies. Investments in space have a major economic impact for India and, considering India’s recent rise in economic and political might, it is quite logical to expect that its ambitions and investments in space will only continue to rise. The first Gulf war demonstrated that space is indispensable to the military. The space systems acquired by the USA during the 1970s and 1980s proved their worth in the Persian Gulf during the 1990 and 1991 Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm. Lieutenant General Donald L. Cromer, at the time Commander of Space Systems Division of the Air Force Systems Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, pointed out that Desert Storm was the first space war – the first war in which space systems were used by operational commanders and integrated into their daily decision-making processes. This, in turn, influenced the attitude of military leaders towards space. Previously, said General Cromer, “…space people used to be pushed off to the side. We had to fight for everything. We had neither understanding nor strong support for all the things that space could do for the Air Force.” As a result of Desert Shield/Desert Storm, however, commanders acquired a new appreciation of the value of space systems. In the general’s words, “Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm will be a watershed for recognizing that space is as much a part of the Air Force and military infrastructure as the airplanes, tanks and the ships…. All future wars will be planned and executed with that in mind.”7 That said, the rapidly increasing dependency on space during war time requires a correspondingly rapid increase in capabilities.</span>


<span class="Underline">China is rapidly militarizing space and will surpass the US</span>
<span class="Underline">Blanchard, 7/11/11 – Ben Blanchard is a Reuters correspondent based in Beijing, cites a report by the Journal of Strategic Studies [Reuters, “China ramps up military use of space with new satellites-report”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/07/12/china-satellites-idUSL3E7I902220110712]</span>
<span class="Underline">(Reuters) - China is developing cutting-edge satellites that will allow it to project power far beyond its shores and deter the United States from using aircraft carriers in any future conflict over its rival Taiwan, a report said. The piece in October's Journal of Strategic Studies, a U.K.-published defence and security journal, runs at odds with China's stated opposition to the militarization of space. But the report, an advance copy of which was obtained by Reuters, said that the rapid development of advanced reconnaissance satellites to enable China to track hostile forces in real time and guide ballistic missiles has become a key to the modernisation of its forces. While the United States used to be unrivaled in this area, China is catching up fast, it added. "China's constellation of satellites is transitioning from the limited ability to collect general strategic information, into a new era in which it will be able to support tactical operations as they happen," the report said. "China may already be able to match the United States' ability to image a known, stationary target and will likely surpass it in the flurry of launches planned for the next two years." Beijing has consistently denied it has anything other than peaceful plans for space and says its growing military spending and prowess are for defensive purposes and modernisation of outdated forces. But with the recent unveiling of a stealth fighter, the expected launch of its first aircraft carriers and more aggressive posture over territorial disputes such as one in the South China Sea, Beijing has rattled nerves regionally and globally. China's space program has come a long way since late leader Mao Zedong, who founded Communist China in 1949, lamented that the country could not even launch a potato into space. Since then, it has launched men into orbit and brought them home, sent out its first lunar probe and begun longer-term programmes to explore Mars and establish a space station. The successful missile "kill" of an old satellite in early 2007 represented a new level of ability for the Chinese military, and last year China successfully tested emerging technology aimed at destroying missiles in mid-air. U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates warned earlier this year that advances by China's military in cyber and anti-satellite warfare technology could challenge the ability of U.S. forces to operate in the Pacific. "STRATEGICALLY DISQUIETING" China's need to use satellites to up its military game became apparent during the 1995-96 Taiwan Straits crisis, when the U.S. dispatched a carrier group after China menaced the self-ruled island with war games, the report said. Beijing realised it could neither track nor respond to the U.S. ships. The incident also led China to realise it needed the means to keep Washington from using its navy to intervene in a war over Taiwan. Beijing regards the island as a rebel province. "The most immediate and strategically disquieting application (of reconnaissance satellites) is a targeting and tracking capability in support of the anti-ship ballistic missile, which could hit U.S. carrier groups," the report said. "But China's growing capability in space is not designed to support any single weapon; instead it is being developed as a dynamic system, applicable to other long-range platforms. With space as the backbone, China will be able to expand the range of its ability to apply force while preserving its policy of not establishing foreign military bases." More broadly speaking, satellites will be able to help China project power. "As China's capabilities grow, with space reconnaissance as an example, it will be increasingly hard to reconcile the rhetoric of a defensive posture and a more expansive capability." (Editing by Brian Rhoads and Yoko Nishikawa) </span>


==<span class="Underline">Contention 2 is Links</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Space challenges will collapse hegemony. Weaponizing now locks in heg.</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">Almost 2,500 years ago, Thucydides foresaw the inevitability of a disastrous Peloponnesian war due to “the rising power of Athens and the fear it caused in Sparta.” Indeed, whenever an extant international order is challenged by a rising power, the dominant power in the system is obligated to respond. Such conditions are relatively rare in history, but when they occur, the resulting war is not for minor spoils or border modifications, but for leadership of a new world order. It is a great war, a hegemonic war. This is the context in which the world now exists. The relatively stable global hegemony of US dominance since 1945, punctuated by limited wars and shifting balances of opposition, has relied on technology-dominant global power projection. Today, that technology is wholly integrated and inextricable from space support, and no state relies more on space power for its economic and security well-being than the US. Any effort to deny space capabilities would be a direct challenge to its hegemonic power, and the United States must confront the usurper or abdicate its leadership position. To be sure, China’s increasing space emphasis and its cultural antipathy to military transparency suggests that a serious attempt at seizing control of space is in the works. A lingering fear is the sudden introduction of an unknown capability (call it Technology X) that would allow a hostile state to place multiple weapons into orbit quickly and cheaply. The advantages gained from controlling the high ground of space would accrue to it as surely as to any other state, and the concomitant loss of military power from the denial of space to America’s already-dependent military forces could cause the immediate demise of the extant international system. The longer the United States dithers on its military responsibilities, the more likely a potential opponent could seize low-earth orbit before America is able to respond. And in such circumstances, the US certainly would respond. Conversely, if America were to weaponize space, it is not at all sure that any other state or group of states would find it rational to counter in kind. The entry cost to provide the necessary infrastructure is still too high—hundreds of billions of dollars, at minimum. The years of investment needed to achieve a 29 comparable counter-force capability—essentially from scratch—would provide more than ample time for the United States to entrench itself in space and readily counter preliminary efforts to displace it. The tremendous effort in time and resources would be worse than wasted. Most states, if not all, would opt not to counter US deployments directly. They might oppose American interests with asymmetric balancing, depending on how aggressively it uses its new power, but the likelihood of a hemorrhaging arms race in space should the United States deploy weapons first—at least for the next few years—is remote. This reasoning does not dispute the fact that US deployment of weapons in outer space would represent the addition of a potent new military capacity, one that would assist in extending the current period of American hegemony well into the future. Clearly this would be intimidating, and America must expect severe condemnation and increased competition in peripheral areas. But such an outcome is less threatening than another, particularly non-liberal authoritarian state doing so, as the necessity of a response in kind is compelling. Placement of weapons in space by the United States would be perceived correctly as an attempt at continuing American hegemony. Although there is obvious opposition to the current international balance of power, the majority of states seem to regard it as at least tolerable. A continuation of the status quo is thus minimally acceptable, even to states working toward its demise. As long as the United States does not employ its power arbitrarily, the situation would be bearable initially and grudgingly accepted over time. Mirror-imaging does not apply here. An attempt by China to dominate space would be part of an effort to break the land-sea-air dominance of the United States in preparation for a new international order. Such an action would challenge the status quo, rather than seek to perpetuate it. This would be disconcerting to nations that accept, no matter how grudgingly, the current international order—including the venerable institutions of trade, finance, and law that operate within it—and intolerable to the United States. As leader of the current system, the United States could do no less than engage in a perhaps ruinous space arms race, save graciously decide to step aside and accept a diminished world status. 30 Seizing the initiative and securing low-Earth orbit now, while the United States is dominant in space infrastructure, would do much to stabilize the international system and prevent an arms race in space. The enhanced ability to deny any attempt by another nation to place military assets in space and to readily engage and destroy terrestrial anti-satellite capacity would make the possibility of large-scale space war or military space races less likely, not more. Why would a state expend the effort to compete in space with a superpower that has the extraordinary advantage of holding securely the highest ground at the top of the gravity well? So long as the controlling state demonstrates a capacity and a will to use force to defend its position, in effect expending a small amount of violence as needed to prevent a greater conflagration in the future, the likelihood of a future war in space is remote. Moreover, if the United States were willing to deploy and use a military space force that maintained effective control of space, and did so in a way that was perceived as tough, non arbitrary, and efficient, such an action would serve to discourage competing states from fielding opposing systems. It could also set the stage for a new space regime, one that encourages space commerce and development. Should the United States use its advantage to police the heavens and allow unhindered peaceful use of space by any and all nations for economic and scientific development, over time its control of LEO could be viewed as a global public good. In much the same way the British maintained control of the high seas in the nineteenth century, enforcing international norms of innocent passage and property rights, and against slavery, the US could prepare outer space for a long-overdue burst of economic expansion. There is reasonable historic support for the notion that the most peaceful and prosperous periods in modern history coincide with the appearance of a strong, liberal hegemony. America has been essentially unchallenged in its naval dominance over the last 60 years and in global air supremacy for the last 15 or more. Today, there is more international commerce on the oceans and in the air than ever. Ships and aircraft of all nations worry more about running into bad weather than about being commandeered by a military vessel or set upon by pirates. Search and rescue is a far more common task for the Navy than forced embargo, and the transfer of 31 humanitarian aid is a regular mission. The legacy of American military domination of the sea and air has been positive, and the same should be expected for space. </span>


<span class="Underline">Specifically, the US and China are headed for a space war despite rapprochement elsewhere – both sides understand the benefits of space control</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, PhD, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">The coming war with China will be fought for control of outer space. The stakes are high. The side that prevails will have a clear path to domination of the international system. Although its effects will be far-reaching, the conflict itself will not be visible to those looking up into the night sky. It will not be televised. Most will not even be aware that it is occurring. It may already have begun. And yet, this new kind of remotely-controlled proxy war will not be so different that it is unrecognizable. The principles of war and the logic of competition remain as they always have. Only the context has changed. When perceived through this mind-set, via the tenets of traditional realist and geopolitical theories that have survived millennia in their basic forms, the unavoidable conclusion is that the United States and the People’s Republic of China are on a collision course for war. Such determinist theory is quickly countered by those who find its implications abhorrent. Inevitability is a crass and unsubtle divination. Because a thing has always happened does not mean that it always will. Nor does the reverse hold—because a thing has never happened does not mean that it cannot be so. The realist paradigm of power politics does not have to hold sway. The cruelly consistent narrative of history need not be eternally retold. Nothing is inevitable, counter the idealists. The world can be made different, the world today is different. 1 Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1676919 The power of possibility is tantalizing, but the brusque strength of probability, for a decision maker, usually holds sway. The past foreshadows the future—and it is the calculation of probability over time combined with risk that is more persuasive than platitudes. If an event is likely, its outcome perceptible, and its influence measurable, the prudent state must make preparations to mitigate its effects. If an event is unlikely, even if its impact is serious, actions necessary to mitigate it are often deferred to the future—though this form of political gambling tends to magnify the deleterious effects of the event when it eventually comes to pass. If the state’s sovereignty is at risk, however, no matter how unlikely the event, it must be dealt with directly. On the surface, it may seem as though geopolitical forces are currently in dynamic balance. The US is the overwhelming sea and air power, offensively oriented and favoring maneuver and precision strike for advantage in war. The PRC is potentially the greatest land power the world has ever known, defensively established and reliant on masses of infantry as its core strength. Neither has a globally significant advantage vis-à-vis the other. There is no plausible near-term scenario in which the US could invade and sustain an occupation of the Chinese mainland. Likewise, the US is currently impervious to any invasion and occupation by Chinese forces. Neither state’s sovereignty appears in doubt due to actions by the other. At the level of grand strategy neither mass or maneuver, offense or defense, has a transformational advantage. From this perspective, war, inevitable though it may be, is not imminent. Less venerable theories of conflict and cooperation are more favorable toward long-term peace. Economically, the US and PRC are tightly bound. Chinese markets are opening and the productivity of PRC manufacturing has allowed the US to move into a post-industrial economy. Trade is increasing substantially, and much of America’s foreign debt is held by China, to the point that it is not to either state’s fiscal advantage to engage in a conflict that will sever or (even just weaken) these ties. Culturally and historically, the Chinese and American people are inclined toward mutual admiration and respect. Despite the political differences between Chinese Communism and Western Liberal Democratic Capitalism, human connections and government rapprochement are valued by both sides. An appreciation of American 2 Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1676919 technological innovation and Chinese work and spiritual ethics imbues the still-developing relationship. Both sides seem willing to work together and sustain a world system in which each nation-state has its place and its independence. In every sphere but one, it seems, the two great powers are building toward peace. In every sphere of competition, with one exception, there is room for negotiation and mutually beneficial outcomes. That one incompatible, uncompromising realm is outer space. A Twenty-First Century Great Wall in Space: No state relies on space power and space support more than the US. Since at least the mid 1980s, its armed forces have undergone a radical transformation. Space intelligence and observations, high bandwidth communications, and navigation support have created the most deadly combat force in history. America can engage targets anywhere in the world, in all weather, day or night, with extraordinary precision and lethality, and with a minimum of collateral damage. The progress of this transformation has been stymied with the continuing emphasis on ground forces occupation duties in Iraq and Afghanistan, but the American military is operating more effectively and efficiently today with the smallest percentage of its population actively engaged in military service since the post-WWII demobilization. Just over two years ago—and perhaps again earlier this year as part of a ballistic missile defense system test—China successfully engaged one of its own derelict satellites in space. This was an extraordinarily provocative action. The United States simply has no defense against such a capability, and China’s anti-satellite (ASAT) test was intended to remind the world of this weakness. Moreover, its use of an MRBM (which the PRC produces in mass) to propel the kill vehicle indicates a potential ASAT weapons capability sufficient to target the entire US low earth orbit inventory. The US responded in kind, engaging and destroying one of its own de-orbiting satellites with a modified surface-to-air missile interceptor launched from an Aegis cruiser. While this response demonstrated an enhanced American capability to engage low-earth orbiting (LEO) satellites 3 from a mobile platform, the message sent was straight-forward. There is no current defense against a satellite attack, and the only option available to US or PRC strategists is retaliation. If deterrence fails, LEO will become a global no-fly zone. Both sides will engage and destroy any and all satellites within range, cheaply and effectively. China’s ultimate goal appears to be to assert its regional supremacy and achieve co-equal (if not dominant) status as a global power. Control of space is a critical step in that direction. Without its eyes and ears in space to provide warning and real-time intelligence, the United States would be in a painfully awkward situation should the PRC put direct military pressure on Taiwan. A robust space program, aimed at achieving dominance in LEO, prompts a comparison to traditional large-scale government projects in China. Its monumental Great Wall was intended to keep the barbarians out, and while never impermeable, when fully manned it stymied the mobile bands of steppe cavalry that had pillaged northern regions for centuries. But defense was only one of its purposes. Such works were needed to enhance security and also to bolster trade and spur economic growth. In turn, these massive public works gave legitimacy to the ruling power. Awe-inspiring achievements were a source of pride, and clear evidence of the superiority of the state. Moreover, they were a way to slough off excess economic capacity, keeping the population industriously engaged while limiting the amount of capital that could be accumulated by private interests. China’s current space program is readily imagined as a New Age Great Wall. Competing with the West in the highest technological endeavors, and doing so despite significant capital disparities, enhances the legitimacy of the communist party. China’s domestic population rationalizes lower per capita income as the state completes its rise among nations to superpower status. International audiences are awed by the accomplishments, conveying further legitimacy to the state. They acknowledge China’s domestic right to self-determination, but more importantly give credence to the capacity of Chinese manufacturing to produce quality high technology goods. This perception helps to increase the sale of advanced Chinese made products abroad. 4 While its comprehensive space program enhances foreign and domestic perceptions of legitimacy, and raises awareness of Chinese industrial and manufacturing acumen, its military space efforts directly threaten the relatively stable international system. It is this latter issue that presents a wicked problem for strategists. Western Action / Eastern Timing: The Western mind sees transparency and openness as the surest way to peace. When one state can effectively monitor another, fears of surprise attack are mitigated and the tendency to overestimate a potential opponent’s capacities and intentions are minimized. With transparency, the security dilemma is obviated and cooperation is possible. But transparency as a confidence-building measure is a purely Western mode of thought. To an Eastern strategist, the idea that an opponent might know precisely one’s strengths and weaknesses merely invites attack. The key to stability in this view is uncertainty—not knowing how strong or how weak an opponent is, and never, under any circumstances, revealing one’s own intentions and capacities. The more sure the knowledge, the more crafty the countervailing plan, the more likely its success. Hence the essential disconnect between West and East in the conduct of war is in the difference between action and timing. The Western strategist seeks to force change through positive steps. Analyses focus on the likely response to specific events, and assessments of whether more or less force is necessary to accomplish change. The future is constructed wholly through the effort and interplay of action. Lao Tsu said, when describing a ceramic storage jar, it is the clay that gives the jar its shape, but it is the hole that is its purpose. Therefore, he insisted, utility is determined from what there is, but value and meaning derive from what there is not. And so it is in the distinction between West and East, between a tactically dominant mindset and a strategy-dominant one. The former concerns itself with reality, in determining what is. From this comes utility. Strategy is instead a search for what there is not, for what there could be. Tactics seeks solutions, the end 5 state of thought. Victory is sufficient in itself. Strategy seeks questions, the commencement of thought. For the strategist, an answer is the debarkation point for a better question. Victory and defeat are understood in the aggregate, merely as pebbles on a long and endless path. Just as the one is meaningless without the other—each is a necessary part of the definition—a combination of utility and value, tactics and strategy, is vital to our view of and place in the world. In the Western way of War, tacticians-cum-strategists traditionally match means to ends so to maximize utility. In such a worldview, utility is efficiency-maximizing, and the most cost effective matches of available means to ends results in victory. In the Eastern Tao of War, strategists prepare for and await the moment of advantage. Through intense study, preparation and training, and patience, victory emerges. In this essay I describe the dialectic of tactics and strategy, and the linkage between them called operations. It requires a rather counter-intuitive foundation—Lao Tsu’s jar. To the Eastern strategist, proper war-making is a matter of timing. Balance of force is a not a single calculation, but a continuing one. Power is a function of capabilities, position, and morale—just as it is in the West—but it is predicated on the interplay of numerous immutable and sometimes unknowable forces. Structure dominates agency. Rather than force a change through positive actions, the Eastern strategist bides time until the moment to strike is ripe. Indeed, the gardening analogy is a strong one in Chinese military writings. No matter how much effort one puts into growing a crop—in learning how to garden, preparing the soil, and tending the plants—there is no benefit in harvesting too early or too late. Patience is the preeminent military virtue. When Chinese generals are told that their advantage is in long-term planning, they are liable to chuckle. “I do not know what will happen tomorrow,” he or she will respond, “how can I know what will happen in years or decades?” What the Eastern strategist does is study, prepare, and wait. Through study and reflection, the strategist learns about the opponent’s forces and one’s own, as well as the terrain, technologies, and socio-political contexts that shift in time. Through preparation and training, military forces required by the strategist are available when needed. By awaiting the proper moment for action, success is guaranteed. 6 Western hubris and Eastern inscrutability thus dominate their security relations. When Douglas MacArthur famously stated there is no substitute for victory, he was affirming an agent centered dictum. His meaning was clear. Who prevails in war need make no excuses for the manner in which the battles were fought. History is written by the victor. Alternatively, when Sun Tsu claimed the acme of skill is to win without fighting, he did not refer to a passive or inactive strategy. He averred that following the study-prepare-wait model one comes into a position where the outcome is obvious to all parties, and a capable opponent will choose to negotiate the best terms rather than fight to a foregone and disastrous conclusion. To contrast then merge the disparate perceptions, I turn to a deep-rooted if not quite venerable mode of analysis. </span>

<span class="Underline">China is realist and wants hegemony – internal and external motivations</span>
<span class="Underline">Yuan-Kang Wang, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and the School of Public Affairs and Administration at Western Michigan University, CNAPS Taiwan Fellow. July 2006. (THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION. http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cnaps/papers/wang2006.pdf )</span>
<span class="Underline">Studies have shown that China has been acting like a realist power on the world stage and, in the words of Thomas Christensen, “may well be the high church of realpolitik in the post-Cold War world.”7 Chinese analysts frequently write in terms of power and are skeptical of the idea of humanitarian intervention and promotion of democracy. The Chinese government is known to conduct business with states, such as Sudan, Zimbabwe, and others, whose internal governance is questionable by international standards, and it avoids commenting on or attempting to alter those governments’ internal or external behaviors. Hence, to study China’s grand strategy, realism provides a useful starting point. The realist theory of international relations predicts that the long-term objective of China’s grand strategy is to be the dominant power in Asia. In a world in which no central authority exists to protect states from aggression, a great power will strive to amass more power relative to others and attempt to dominate the system—regional or global—so that it has the capability to set the agenda and dictate the “rules of the game.” In an anarchic world, prudence dictates that states not base their security on other nations’ assurances of benign intentions.8 After all, intentions are difficult to fathom and, even if known, can change in the future. Uncertainty about intentions—an enduring feature of the anarchic system—pushes states to aim for domination. The benefits of being the world’s strongest state are tremendous. Such a state enjoys not only a broader set of foreign policy options, but is also more capable of protecting its vital interests and consequently has the best chance of survival. Once a state has achieved that preeminent position, it will strive to prevent potential rivals from challenging its dominance.9 China’s modern history attests to Thucydides’s observation about power: “The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must.”10 The Qing Dynasty’s relative weaknesses in the nineteenth century enabled the Western powers and Japan to encroach upon China’s sovereignty and territorial interests, causing the infamous “century of humiliation.” To free the country from further suffering, generations of Chinese leaders since the Opium War in 1839 have endeavored to rebuild a powerful nation. They understood that in international politics weakness invites aggression, and strength begets security. The desire for a strong country was a major reason that Dr. Sun Yat-sen led the revolution to overthrow the Qing Dynasty and establish the Republic of China in 1912. Later on, Chiang Kai-shek continued the agenda of building a strong China but was thwarted by Japanese invasion. In 1949, Mao Zedong, emerging as the victor in the Chinese civil war, proclaimed atop the Tiananmen Square: “The Chinese people have stood up!” It is hardly surprising that New China was a revisionist state bent on changing the balance of power in its favor. China’s century of humiliation demonstrated to the CCP leadership that power is the key to state survival.11 Thus, “strong country” (qiangguo) is a constant theme of contemporary Chinese statecraft and an aspiration of the populace. As one of China’s leading experts of foreign affairs notes, having the status of a great power brings “confidence and dignity to billions of Chinese people, significantly reduces the likelihood of China being suppressed or bullied by today’s superpower, significantly alleviates the potential and actual threats posed by countries hostile to China, significantly helps China secure the cooperation and support of other countries (including other great powers) and more effectively maintain and pursue the international interests that China deserves.”12 But how strong should China be? There is no clear answer in the policy and academic communities in China. The official mission of the Chinese Communist Party calls for “the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation” (zhonghua minzu weida fuxing), as reiterated nine times in former General Secretary Jiang Zemin’s report to the 16th Party Congress in 2002. But this does not answer the question of how much power is enough. The writings of Chinese analysts are also unclear about how much power the country should eventually possess.13 Does China wish to revive its status as the dominant power in Asia? Most agree that China should become a “world great power” (shijie daguo), but do not specify whether China should be “first among equals” or just equal.14 Some suggest that China should play a “dominant” (zhudao) role in regional, if not global, affairs, and should “reshape” (chongshu) a world order that better suits Chinese interests.15 Others put forth a somewhat qualified view and suggest that China should play a preeminent role in regional security affairs, with global economic interests, but should not become a global military power.16 This lack of clarity in Chinese writings is hardly surprising, considering that the mantra of China’s foreign policy since 1949 has been opposition to any forms of power politics and hegemonism—not to mention that China does not yet have the capability to assume the leading role in Asian affairs. To learn about the future direction of China’s strategic objectives, I turn to realism for guidance. Therefore, my claim about China’s long-term objective of regional primacy is a theory-based inference. Pax Americana and Pax Sinica The explanatory (and predictive) power of realist theory can be illustrated by examples from both America’s and China’s own histories. Consider today’s reigning superpower—the United States. Since the first days of U.S. independence, American leaders have consciously sought to build a country dominant in the Western Hemisphere—in the words of John Quincy Adams in 1811 before he became president, “a nation, coextensive with the North American continent, destined by God and nature to be the most populous and most powerful people ever combined under one social compact.”17 Manifest Destiny aside, in 1823 the United States announced the Monroe Doctrine to prevent European powers from meddling in its backyard. Clearly, American leaders understood that its security would be best served by becoming the hegemonic power in the Western Hemisphere. As U.S. power grew in the twentieth century, its policy transmuted: deny other powers the possibility of becoming hegemon in any other region. “The interest of the United States of America,” declared President John F. Kennedy in 1963, “is best served by preserving and protecting a world of diversity in which no one power or no one combination of powers can threaten the security of the United States.”18 The White House’s National Security Strategy of 2002 explicitly states: “Our forces will be strong enough to dissuade potential adversaries from pursuing a military build-up in hopes of surpassing, or equaling, the power of the United States.”19 Similarly, the Pentagon’s Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) of 2006 states that the United States will “seek to ensure that no foreign power can dictate the terms of regional or global security. It will attempt to dissuade any military competitor from developing disruptive or other capabilities that could enable regional hegemony….”20 Thus, as realist theory predicts, American foreign policy aims to preserve its global dominance and prevent the rise of a regional hegemon in Europe or Asia. Such a regional hegemon could challenge America’s interests and threaten its security. Liberals and realists alike generally agree on this strategic goal. Joseph S. Nye, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, argues that maintaining regional stability and “deterring the rise of hegemonic forces” constitutes the rationale for stationing American troops in East Asia.21 Along the same line, Samuel Huntington argues: “A world without U.S. primacy will be a world with more violence and disorder.”22 Furthermore, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger emphasizes that “it is in the American national interest to resist the effort of any power to dominate Asia.”23 For most Americans, the United States should maintain a preponderant position in global affairs and prevent the emergence of a hostile hegemon in Eurasia that could threaten American security. As Stephen Walt notes, “one would be hard pressed to find a prominent U.S. politician who would openly endorse anything less than the continuation of the nation’s dominance.”24 The same realist logic that led the U.S. to attain and maintain the status of regional hegemon in the Western Hemisphere motivated China’s regional strategy over many centuries. Throughout most of history, China was the regional hegemon in East Asia. The Middle Kingdom was the most powerful state in the region and was able to set the rules for trade and tribute with neighboring and even faraway states. Chinese dominance was expressed through a tribute system that required regional states to acknowledge Chinese supremacy and accept their inferior status as vassals. Their envoys brought tribute to the Chinese court and performed certain rituals, including the kowtow, to symbolize their submission to the emperor. In return, they were lavished with a much higher value of Chinese goods and luxuries such as silk, tea, treasures, and agricultural products. The vassal states were required to adopt the Chinese calendar, and their rulers were enfeoffed by the Chinese emperor. They could also call for Chinese help if attacked. By paying tribute and receiving Chinese goods and culture, it was hoped, the foreigners would be transformed into civilized peoples and would not be a threat to China. In this sense, the tribute system served as a “defense mechanism” to protect China from foreign attacks.25 Many scholars consider Imperial China’s tribute system voluntary and peaceful. China specialists frequently use the tribute system to argue that the Chinese world order was a benign one, and that China has not historically followed the dictates of realism.26 A careful look at Chinese history, however, reveals a different story. First, Chinese statecraft was not as benign (or non-coercive) as is often depicted in the Sinocentric literature. Although those who accepted Chinese suzerainty were granted tributary trade privileges, those who did not “were defined as inhuman, therefore deserving extermination,” in the words of historian Peter Purdue. In the seemingly pacific tribute system, “the iron fist always was held in reserve behind the smooth ritual mask.”27 Second, the bedrock of the tribute system was Chinese power. When China was powerful, it was able to preserve and protect the tribute system. When China was in decline, its ability to maintain the system dropped in tandem.28 For instance, in the sixteenth century, as the Mongol threat mounted, the declining Ming China was forced to watch helplessly as its tributary state of Hami in Inner Asia fell prey to the nearby state of Turfan. Frequently overlooked in the tribute system literature is that, for three hundred years, the weaker Song Dynasty (960-1279) had to pay tribute to a more powerful adversary in northern China and grudgingly accepted China’s inferior status. Third, security through expansion was not uncommon in Chinese history. For example, Han China conquered the Korean state of Choson around 108 BC and established four commanderies on the peninsula. Tang China expanded into Korea by conquering Koguryo in 668. In the south, the Han, Tang, and Ming dynasties conquered and reconquered the northern part of Vietnam and incorporated it into the imperial administrations. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Qing China under the Manchus was an expansionist power bent on dominating Asia.29 Finally, in addition to viewing the tribute system through a Chinese lens, analysts would benefit from the viewpoints of those at the receiving end of Chinese power—the tributary states. These states’ understanding of the tribute system was different from Chinese interpretation. Since Chinese return of goods was usually in excess of the tribute, the vassal states saw this as payment for their cooperation. As historian Henry Serryus aptly observes of Sino-Mongol relations during the Ming Dynasty, “the Mongols thought of the tribute system as a tribute paid to them, not the other way about.”30 This depiction of the Sinocentric order undoubtedly differs in culture and form from Pax Americana as well as other regional hegemonic systems. They share a core element, however: a recognition that security is best ensured by becoming the most powerful state in their region. The regional hegemon can dictate the boundaries of acceptable behavior and possesses the means to enforce them, if necessary, by the threat or use of force. Neither American nor Chinese leaders would prefer to see their nations overshadowed by a stronger great power next door. </span>



<span class="Underline">Space power has become as necessary force multiplier – it must be protected</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf) Note: the first sentence is a myth the authors intend to refute</span>
<span class="Underline">In 1991, U.S. forces defeated the world's fourth-largest military in just 10 days of ground combat. The Gulf War witnessed the public and operational debut of unfathomably complicated battle equipment, sleek new aircraft employing stealth technology, and promising new missile interceptors. Arthur C. Clarke went so far as to dub Operation Desert Storm the world's first space war, as none of the accomplishments of America's new-look military would have been possible without support from space.6 Twelve years later, Operation Iraqi Freedom proved that the central role of spacepower could no longer be denied. America's military had made the transition from a space-supported to a fully space-enabled force, with astonishing results. The U.S. military successfully exercised most of its current spacepower functions, including space lift, command and control, rapid battle damage assessment, meteorological support, and timing and navigation techniques such as Blue Force tracking, which significantly reduced incidences of fratricide. The tremendous growth in reliance on space from Desert Storm to Iraqi Freedom is evident in the raw numbers. The use of operational satellite communications increased four-fold, despite being used to support a much smaller force (fewer than 200,000 personnel compared with more than 500,000). New operational concepts such as reach back (intelligence analysts in the United States sending information directly to frontline units) and reach forward (rear-deployed commanders able to direct battlefield operations in real time) reconfigured the tactical concept of war. The value of Predator and Global Hawk unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), completely reliant on satellite communications and navigation for their operation, was confirmed. Satellite support also allowed Special Forces units to range across Iraq in extremely disruptive independent operations, practically unfettered in their silent movements. But the paramount effect of space-enabled warfare was in the area of combat efficiency. Space assets allowed all-weather, day-night precision munitions to provide the bulk of America's striking power. Attacks from standoff platforms, including Vietnam-era B– 52s, allowed maximum target devastation with extraordinarily low casualty rates and collateral damage. In Desert Storm, only 8 percent of munitions used were precisionguided, none of which were GPS-capable. By Iraqi Freedom, nearly 70 percent were precision-guided, more than half from GPS satellites.7 In Desert Storm, fewer than 5 percent of aircraft were GPS-equipped. By Iraqi Freedom, all were. During Desert Storm, GPS proved so valuable that the Army procured and rushed into theater more than 4,500 commercial receivers to augment the meager 800 military-band ones it could deploy from stockpiles, an average of 1 per company (about 200 personnel). By Iraqi Freedom, each Army squad (6 to 10 Soldiers) had at least 1 military GPS receiver. If, as it has been said, the 1990 Gulf War was the first space war—the birth of military enhancement and enabling space capabilities that had long gestated in the role of mission support—then the twin Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom represent military spacepower's coming-out party. Space support enabled a level of precision, stealth, command and control, intelligence-gathering, speed, maneuverability, flexibility, and lethality heretofore unknown. U.S. combat capabilities were absolutely dominant in these conflicts—and the entire world now understands the significant military role played by space systems. </span>


<span class="Underline">Space is the ultimate high ground. Plan results in domination of Earth and space.</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10 [September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">As technology developed, the details of geostrategic theory morphed toward actionable decisions, but the essential logic persisted. Control the most vital locations and lines of communication (LOC) if possible, deny those advantages to an opponent. Similar arguments were made for air and missile power, and are currently in vogue for space power. When space is perceived as terrain, it can be mapped and studied geopolitically (see figure 2). Gravitational isobars are analogous to elevation lines, and both high-ground and lines of 11 communication stand out. The key feature for understanding the importance of LEO is its dominant position near the top of the earth’s gravity well. Figure 2. A satellite in stable LEO circles the earth every 90 minutes, and does so without any expenditure of fuel. A network of about 300 interconnected satellites armed with kinetic or directed energy weapons could provide continuous coverage of the earth and, according to scaled back Strategic Defense Initiative estimates from the late 1980s, could engage 100 simultaneous missile launches from anywhere on the earth. While this does not protect against a massive attack from a major nuclear power, it does give some defense against the most likely nuclear missile events—an accidental launch, a terrorist or rogue state launch, the so-called mad boat captain scenario, or a limited strike by third party states (e.g. India vs. Pakistan or Israel vs. Iran). A network of just three laser or other directed energy satellites in geostationary orbit (24,000 miles above the earth) would provide near-instantaneous coverage of 70 percent of the earth’s surface. 12 The advantageous position atop the gravity well is extraordinary. Satellites there are travelling at hyper-velocity, about 17,500 mph, making them extremely fleeting and difficult to target from the bottom of the well, that is, from the surface of the earth. The velocity of even a tiny projectile hitting the earth at this speed magnifies the damage potential. A non-explosive heat shielded metal rod could penetrate several meters of hardened concrete, for example. A needle-sized projectile travelling at this speed would smash a missile lumbering up from the bottom of the gravity well to bits. If one state (or entity) could quickly saturate LEO with several dozen micro-satellites, each with a complement of small, hyper-velocity kinetic rods, it could dictate the terms of entry into outer space. Such satellites would be too small to detect from the earth (the optical distortion of looking from a more-dense to a less-dense medium obfuscates all but the largest satellites; think of the difference in clarity between looking into a swimming pool from the atmosphere and looking out at the atmosphere from underwater) and could begin operations by clearing LEO of all adversary satellites. Any state attempting to repopulate LEO would have to take the risk of having its space launch vehicle (SLV) destroyed in the boost phase, at terrific expense. ASAT missiles or SLVs launched from the earth have easily detected heat signatures, and would be readily engaged before they could reach LEO. Indeed, space is the only location that would allow a state intent on preventing opposing weapons from reaching space to do so comprehensively and efficiently. Ground-based interceptors engage in the unpowered mid-course, where they are vulnerable to decoys and other counter-targeting deceptions, or worse, in the re-entry phase. Moreover, such systems must be placed along expected lines of approach (they are not adaptive), and are vulnerable to conventional and terrorist attacks. Sea and air-launched anti-satellite weapons can engage SLVs in the boost phase if they are already operating close to a launch point at the time of attack. Destroying an enemy’s rockets and missiles in the boost phase has many additional advantages, to include ensuring that any debris caused by the engagement falls onto the launching state. Doing so effectively, over the entirety of the earth’s surface, is a capacity best based in space. </span>

<span class="Underline">Space is geographically shaped by gravity – control of chokepoints is possible</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, '2 (Everett C Dolman is Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. Astropolitik, edited by Colin Gray and Williamson Murray, edited by Colin Gray and Williamson Murray, Pg 62)</span>
<span class="Underline">In the Age of Sail, wind and current—their appearance, prevalence, or lack thereof— were the determining factors in transoceanic travel. In rail travel, gradient is the determining limitation in transcontinental planning. In space, gravity is the most important factor in both understanding and traversing the topography of space. It dictates prudent travel and strategic asset placement. The unseen undulations of outer space terrain, the hills and valleys of space, are more properly referred to as gravity wells. Depiction of this terrain is difficult, but a two-dimensional portrayal is that of a weight sinking into a taughtly stretched sheet of rubber (see Figure 3.8). The more massive the body, the deeper the well. Travel or practical distance in space is less a function of linear distance than of effort or work expended to get from point A to point B. Traveling 35,000 km from the surface of the Earth, for example, requires 22 times as much effort as traveling a similar distance from the surface of the Moon, as the Earth’s gravity well is 22 times deeper. 12 In spacefaring terms, the important measure of work is the propulsive effort required to change a velocity vector, or the total velocity required to get from point A to point B. The total velocity effort (also called Δv or Delta V) is the key to understanding the reality of space travel and the efficient movement of goods. In another example of effective distance in space versus linear distance, it is much cheaper in terms of Δv to propel a spacecraft from the Moon to Mars (56 million km at the closest orbital point) than to propel the same spacecraft from the Earth to the Moon (just 385,000 km). 13 Thus the Δv to go from low Earth orbit (an orbit just above the atmosphere) to lunar orbit is 4100 m/s, which is only 300 m/s more than to go to geosynchronous [orbit, indeed] most of the effort of space travel near the Earth is spent in getting 100 km or so off the Earth, that is, into low Earth orbit. [More revealing,] to go from low Earth orbit to lunar orbit takes about 5 days, but requires less than half the effort needed to go from the Earth’s surface to low orbit. [Thus,] certain points that are far apart in distance (and time) are quite close together in terms of the propulsive effort required to move from one to the other. 14 The previous discussion of orbital mechanics has shown that a spacecraft in stable orbit expends no fuel, and is therefore in the most advantageous Δv configuration. The most efficient travel in space can then be envisioned as a transfer from one stable orbit to another with the least expenditure of Δv. Using this logic, in space we can find specific orbits and transit routes that because of their advantages in fuel efficiency create natural corridors of movement and commerce. Space, like the sea, potentially can be traversed in any direction, but because of gravity wells and the forbidding cost of getting fuel to orbit, over time spacefaring nations will develop specific pathways of heaviest traffic. Orbital maneuvers can be performed at any point, but in order to conserve fuel, there are certain points at which thrust ought to be applied. The most efficient way to get from orbit A to orbit B (the proper language of space travel) is the Hohmann transfer (see Figure 3.9). This maneuver is a two-step change in Δv. Engines are first fired to accelerate the spacecraft into a higher elliptical orbit (or decelerate into a lower one). When the target orbit is intersected, the engines fire again to circularize and stabilize the final orbit. A Hohmann transfer orbit is depicted from the Earth to geosynchronous orbit, but the same logic is used in all transfers including low-Earth orbit to geostationary, planetary movement, even interception of comets from Earth launch facilities. So-called ‘fast transfers’, in which the rules of orbital mechanics are ignored and a spacecraft simply expends fuel throughout its flight path, are of course possible, but require such an expenditure of Δv they will only be done only if fuel is abundant/functionally without cost, or if time is critical. This is the outer-space equivalent of sailing the long way round, however, and can make business unprofitable and military losses unacceptable. Given the vital necessity to conserve fuel and increase the productive lives of spacecraft, the future lanes of commerce and military lines of communications in space will be the Hohmann transfer orbits between stable spaceports. Britain’s rise to power came, Mahan believed, because it had exploited its location across the sea routes of Europe. A modern astrostrategist can and should make similar arguments. Mahan correctly observed that a prudent state not only could avoid garrisoning all the seas to dominate them, it would not even have to garrison the whole of the commerce lanes. Only the critical point locations along these lanes need be controlled. A small but highly trained and equipped force carefully deployed to control the bottlenecks or chokepoints of the major sea lanes would suffice. Control of these few geographically determined locations would guarantee dominance over military movement and world trade to the overseeing state. The Hohmann transfer establishes the equivalent of the lane of commerce for space. Domination of space will come through efficient control of specific outer space strategic narrows or chokepoints along these lanes. The primary and first readily identifiable strategic narrow is low-Earth orbit itself. This tight band of operational space contains the bulk of mankind’s satellites, a majority of which are military platforms or have military utility. This is also the realm of current anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons technology and operations, including the US F-15 launched satellite interceptor and the massive Russian proximity blast co-orbital ASAT. Within this narrow belt are the current and projected permanently manned space stations, and all space shuttle operations. Moreover, all the incomprehensible vastness of the universe can be accessed only by traveling through it. At the edge of Earth space, beyond low-Earth orbit, lies the most obvious and discussed strategic narrow—the geostationary belt. This band about the equatorial waist of the Earth is the only natural orbit that allows for a stable position relative to a given point on the Earth. The geostationary belt has severe constraints on the number of satellites that can operate within it, however, due to the possibility of broadcast interference from adjacent platforms. This has caused it to be considered a scarce and precious international natural resource by most members of the international community. Nonetheless, in 1977, nine equatorial states asserted in the Bogota Declaration that national sovereignty extended upward, ad just coloeum, to geostationary altitude. The action is not dissimilar to the attempts of numerous coastal states to extend the limit of their internationally recognized territorial waters. In other words, the geostationary belt is considered the sovereign territory of those states directly beneath it, transforming an area routinely referred to as ‘the common heritage of mankind’ into a geopolitical conflict zone (see Chapter 4 for a complete discussion). Mahan additionally advocated the establishment of naval bases at strategic point locations, including Hawaii, the Philippines, and several Caribbean islands, to act as fueling and resupply stations for the seafaring state’s navy. The range of ships and natural interests of the state geographically determined their spacing. Without these bases, US war and trade ships would ‘be like land birds, unable to fly far from their own shores’. 15 The notion is not fresh, and such staged basing is historically common, but its tendrils reach to outer space. Giulio Douhet’s advocacy of a basing procedure predicated on new technology complements the Mahanian vision when transferred to space. Douhet wrote extensively of the coming revolution in modern warfare due to the fact that aircraft were essentially unimpeded by the Earth’s surface features (a critical change in the evolution toward astropolitics with the gradually decreasing importance of topography). Air power was limited in its operations, however, by critical air operations routes, which required precisely located takeoff and landing fields and effective maintenance and repair facilities at major centers. Such bases should be considered critical for space control, and planets, moons, asteroids, and other heavenly bodies are obvious locations for ‘way stations’ or ‘stepping stones’ for space operations. But these may not be the most favorable point locations from a strategic perception. Another consideration based on Δv advantages must be taken into account. The gravity well concept discussed above has important implications for military combat operations other than space transportation/logistics and way station location. In 1981, G.H.Stine wrote of the energy and maneuver advantages of high ground positions in outer space. 16 The first, energy advantage, is a firepower benefit because weapons placed higher in the gravity well gain the downward momentum—velocity in the power equation, velocity times mass—while kinetic energy weapons firing up the gravity well lose momentum, thus power. The maneuver advantage comes because spacecraft higher up in the gravity well have more time to observe and react to attacks than those at lower positions. Stine argued that true tactical and operational advantage in space would go to those who could dominate the top of the gravity wells, and the best positions were those that because of counterbalancing gravitational forces had no down well pull in any direction. Perhaps the most intriguing point locations useful for strategic or commercial bases in Earth-Moon space are the gravitational anomalies known as Lagrange Libration Points, named for the eighteenth-century French mathematician who first postulated their existence. 17 Lagrange calculated that there were five specific points in space where the gravitational effects of the Earth and Moon would cancel each other out (see Figure 3.10). An object fixed at one of these points (or more accurately stated, in tight orbit around one of these points) would remain permanently stable, with no expenditure of fuel. The enticing property of libration points is that they maintain a fixed relation with respect to the Earth and Moon. In practice, owing to perturbations in the space environment including solar flares, orbital drift and wobble, and micrometeorites, only two of the Lagrange points are effectively stable—L4 and L5. The potential military and commercial value of a point in space that is virtually stable is highly speculative, but imaginatively immense. The occupation and control of these points is of such vital importance that an advocacy group called the L-5 Society was formed to influence national policymakers. 18 </span>


<span class="Underline">The plan is also key to technological leadership necessary for heg</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, EMM)</span>
<span class="Underline">Space weapons are expensive; alternatives are cheaper and just as effective. This is the first argument against space weaponization, although it is an easy one to set aside. Of course space weapons are expensive—very expensive, though not necessarily more expensive than terrestrially based systems that may accomplish the same objectives, not to mention objectives that cannot be met otherwise—but so are all revolutionary technologies, particularly those that pioneer a new medium. Furthermore, the state that achieves cutting-edge military technology first has historically been the recipient of tremendous battlefield advantage, and so pursuit of cut-ting-edge technology continues— despite the enormous cost. Moreover, the cultural and economic infrastructure that allows for and promotes innovation in the highest technologies tends to remain at the forefront of international influence. All empires decline and eventually are subsumed, but it has not been their search for the newest technologies or desire to stay at the forefront of innovation that causes their declines. Rather, it has been the policies of those states, generally an overexpansion of imperial control or an economic decision to freeze technologies, that result in their stagnation and demise. Space and space technology represent both the resources and the innovation that can keep a liberal and responsible American hegemony in place for decades, if not centuries, to come; furthermore, unless America maintains this technological edge, it will likely lose its preeminence.</span>

<span class="Underline">Weaponizing space trades off with conventional power – solves all disads</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">The fiduciary and social costs to weaponize space effectively will be immense. These are necessary costs if America, or any other state, is determined to have a military force structure that relies on space support and enablement to operate as it does now, increasingly so for the future. And it will have benefits for the military that may not be readily apparent; for where will the money come for this space weapons capacity? It will not come from school budgets or foreign aid programs. It will not come at the expense of health care reform or corporate 26 bailouts. It will come from existing or planned military budgets, from the capacity of conventional military capabilities on the land and sea and in the air. There will be fewer aircraft carriers and high dollar aircraft fighters and bombers. If space weapons capable of targeting the earth are deployed, relatively slow moving ships and aircraft will be conceptually obsolete, instantly vulnerable to them. As money is scrounged for space lasers and exotic kinetic kill satellites, the systems these space weapons make defenseless will be scrapped. More funding will come from current ballistic and anti-ballistic missile development and deployment, as global ballistic missile defense from space is more cost and practically effective than comprehensive ground or sea-based systems. And most importantly, it will come from personnel reductions, from ground troops currently occupying foreign territory. In this way, America will retain its ability to use force to influence states around the world, but it will atrophy the capacity to occupy their territory and threaten their sovereignty directly. The era of US hegemony will be extended, but the possibility of US global empire will be reduced. Maybe. The future is not determined or even determinable. I have argued elsewhere the practicality of controlling space. I will not add to that argument here. I have also pointed out that the theory that animates these conclusions is precise and well-developed, but the real world is too complex to mirror theory. The political will necessary to weaponize space and follow up with a regime capable of ensuring commercial and cooperative development of space is not yet evident, and such a pure astropolitik vision is not currently viable. But support for the common or collective good that could come from a properly weaponized space force may change that. There are some potential missions for space weapons that do not detract from their primary purpose but complement the goal of space control that may justify its expense. The desire to clean up debris from high traffic orbits could theoretically be done by nuclear-powered space-based lasers—good target practice for their operators. Assured access to space provided by a robust space control force could pave the way for clean, permanent nuclear and toxic waste disposal, as such items currently stored on earth could be sent into the sun. These scenarios are more likely with the monitoring and protection provided by a space-based military or police power. It is an even more difficult dilemma for those who oppose weapons in general, and space weapons in particular. Ramifications for the most critical current function of the Army, Navy, and Marines—pacification, occupation, and control of foreign territory—are profound. With the downsizing of traditional weapons to accommodate heightened space expenditures, the ability to do all three would wane significantly. At a time when many are calling for increased capability to pacify and police foreign lands, in light of the continuing commitments to the occupation and stabilization of Afghanistan and Iraq, space weapons proponents must advocate reduction of these capabilities in favor of a system that will have no direct potential to do so. Hence, the argument that the unilateral deployment of space weapons will precipitate a disastrous arms race is further eroded. To be sure, space weapons are offensive by their very nature. They deter violence by the omnipresent threat of precise, measured, and unstoppable retaliation. But they offer no advantage in the mission of territorial occupation. As such, they are far less intimidating to the international environment than any combination of conventional weapons employed in their stead. What would be more threatening to a state in opposition to American hegemony: a dozen lasers in space with pinpoint accuracy, or (for about the same price) a dozen low-tech infantry divisions massed on its border? A state employing offensive deterrence through space weapons can punish a transgressor state, but it is in a poor position to challenge that state’s sovereignty. A transgressor state is less likely to succumb to the security dilemma if it perceives that its national survival is not at risk. Over time, the world of sovereign states may recognize that the United States could not and would not use space weapons to threaten another country’s internal self-determination. The United States would still maintain the capacity to challenge any attempts to directly intervene in the politics of others, and it would have severely restricted its own capacity to do so. Judicious and non arbitrary use of a weaponized space eventually could be seen as a net positive, an effective global police force that punishes criminal acts but does not threaten to engage in an imperial manner. </span>

==<span class="Underline">Contention 3 is Impacts</span>== 
<span class="Underline">Force application from space ends interstate conflict</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, ‘3 – Everett C, Professor of Comparative Military Studies (October 2003. Space Policy Institute, Security Policy Studies Program, Elliot School of International Affairs, George Washington University. “Space Power and US Hegemony: Maintaining a Liberal World Order in the 21 st Century”. Space Weapons: Are They Needed?. Ed. John M. Logsdon, Gordon Adams. http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf )</span>
<span class="Underline">By using its current and near-term capacities, the United States should endeavor at once to seize military control of low-earth orbit From that high ground vantage, near the top of the Earth’s gravity well, space-based laser or kinetic energy weapons could prevent any other state from deploying assets there, and could most effectively engage and destroy terrestrial enemy ASAT facilities. Other states should still be able to enter space relatively freely for the purpose of engaging in commerce, in keeping with the capitalist principles of the new regime. Just as in the sea dominance eras of the Athenians and British before them, the military space forces of the United States would have to create and maintain a safe operating environment (from pirates and other interlopers, perhaps from debris) to enhance trade and exploration. Only those spacecraft that provide advance notice of their mission and flight plan would be permitted in space, however. The military control of low-Earth orbit would be for all practical purposes a police blockade of all current spaceports, monitoring and controlling all traffic both in and out. The United States would concurrently have to announce the policy that it will tolerate no launch of a missile (cruise or ballistic), no cross-border incursion of aircraft, no hostile and illegal position of unwanted naval forces within the twelve-mile limit of national territory. Any transgressions anywhere in the world would be stopped, immediately by force from space. States will complain that their sovereignty has been infringed, but the United States will be on the highest moral ground. Under no condition can a state initiate cross-border violence, and therefore no state can credibly claim that it is defending itself. Thus the complaints of the state whose forces have been dispatched by space weapons will ring hollow. Yes, perhaps the United States had no international right to shoot down the nuclear or chemically tipped missile launched at a traditional adversary, but the launching state will have a hard time justifying its prior right to start such a war. Over time, and this is the key factor to make such a policy work for international stability and peace (which are at least intervening factors in the rise of global prosperity), the United States must rigidly enforce this policy without discrimination. It must not make any terrestrial military incursions of its own. It must act decisively and openly, and completely without bias. There will be cries of dismay that the United States is acting as an empire, but since the only limitations made on another state’s rights are on those to make war, eventually the loudest outbursts will ebb. People will get used to having American weapons flying overhead. They won’t like it, to be sure, but it will seem a waste of time to protest something that has brought so much good to the world. States will begin to cut back on traditional military forces, as they are less useful in a world where they cannot be used offensively, and unnecessary so long as the United States can guarantee state borders. And so it would. Complete domination of space would give the United States such an advantage on the terrestrial battlefield that no state could openly challenge it. Traditional war would be effectively over. An idealist vision would be secured by realist means. Strategic dominance of space would further force the United States to maintain the industrial and technical capacity to keep it at the forefront of hegemony for the foreseeable future. Nontraditional war, especially terrorism, would not be over, but it could very well be mitigated. 42 The current dominant use of space for military matters is in the areas of observation and monitoring. These are the tools of effective police organizations, and have already been adapted in counter-terrorism plans. The details would be worked out in time, but the strategy clearly has benefits for the United States and the world.</span>

<span class="Underline">China will attack satellites – causes nuclear war</span>
<span class="Underline">Forden, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, 8 (Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/, EMM)</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States has five satellites in geostationary orbit that detect missile launches using the heat released from their exhaust plumes. These satellites are primarily used to alert US nuclear forces to massive nuclear attacks on the homeland. However, in recent years, they have played an increasing role in conventional conflicts, such as both Gulf Wars, by cueing tactical missile defenses like the Patriot missile defense systems that gained fame in their engagements with Saddam’s SCUD missiles. Because of this new use, China might find it useful to attack them with ASATs. Since there are only five of them, China could destroy the entire constellation but at the cost of diverting some of the few available deep-space ASATs from other targets. Of course, China would not have to attack all five but could limit its attack to the three that simultaneously view the Taiwan Straits area. If China did decide to destroy these early warning satellites, it would greatly reduce the area covered by US missile defenses in Taiwan against SCUD and longer range missiles. This is because the area covered by a theater missile defense system is highly dependent on the warning time it has; the greater the warning time, the more effective the missile defense system’s radar is. Thus a Patriot battery, which might ordinarily cover the capital of Taiwan, could be reduced to just defending the military base it was stationed at. Some analysts believe that China would gain a tremendous propaganda coup by having a single missile make it through US defenses and thus might consider this use of its deep-space ASATs highly worthwhile even if it could not increase the probability of destroying military targets. On the other hand, China would run a tremendous risk of the US believing it was under a more general nuclear attack if China did destroy these early warning satellites. Throughout the history of the Cold War, the US has had a policy of only launching a “retaliatory” nuclear strike if an incoming attack is detected by both early warning satellites and radars. Without the space leg of the early warning system, the odds of the US misinterpreting some missile launch that it detected with radar as a nuclear attack would be greatly increased even if the US did not view the satellite destruction as a sufficiently threatening attack all by themselves. Such a misinterpretation is not without precedent. In 1995, Russia’s early warning radars viewed a NASA sounding rocket launch off the coast of Norway and flagged it as a possible Trident missile launch. Many analysts believe that Russia was able to not respond only because it had a constellation of functioning early warning satellites. Any Chinese attacks on US early warning satellites would risk both intentional and mistaken escalation of the conflict into a nuclear war without a clear military goal. </span>


<span class="Underline">China war escalates globally</span>
<span class="Underline">Hunkovic, 09 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict</span>
<span class="Underline">Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war, therefore, many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain, if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>

<span class="Underline">US hegemony facilitates great power bargaining --- the alternative is power wars. </span>
<span class="Underline">Wohlforth 09 – Professor of government @ Dartmouth College [William C. Wohlforth, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009] </span>
<span class="Underline">Second, I question the dominant view that status quo evaluations are relatively independent of the distribution of capabilities. If the status of states depends in some measure on their relative capabilities, and if states derive utility from status, then different distributions of capabilities may affect levels of satisfaction, just as different income distributions may affect levels of status competition in domestic settings. 6 Building on research in psychology and sociology, I argue that even capabilities distributions among major powers foster ambiguous status hierarchies, which generate more dissatisfaction and clashes over the status quo. And the more stratified the distribution of capabilities, the less likely such status competition is. Unipolarity thus generates far fewer incentives than either bipolarity or multipolarity for direct great power positional competition over status. Elites in the other major powers continue to prefer higher status, but in a unipolar system they face comparatively weak incentives to translate that preference into costly action. And the absence of such incentives matters because social status is a positional good—something whose value depends on how much one has in relation to others.7 “If everyone has high status,” Randall Schweller notes, “no one does.”8 While one actor might increase its status, all cannot simultaneously do so. High status is thus inherently scarce, and competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9 I begin by describing the puzzles facing predominant theories that status competition might solve. Building on recent research on social identity and status seeking, I then show that under certain conditions the ways decision makers identify with the states they represent may prompt them to frame issues as positional disputes over status in a social hierarchy. I develop hypotheses that tailor this scholarship to the domain of great power politics, showing how the probability of status competition is likely to be linked to polarity. The rest of the article investigates whether there is sufficient evidence for these hypotheses to warrant further refinement and testing. I pursue this in three ways: by showing that the theory advanced here is consistent with what we know about large-scale patterns of great power conflict through history; by [End Page 30] demonstrating that the causal mechanisms it identifies did drive relatively secure major powers to military conflict in the past (and therefore that they might do so again if the world were bipolar or multipolar); and by showing that observable evidence concerning the major powers’ identity politics and grand strategies under unipolarity are consistent with the theory’s expectations. Puzzles of Power and War Recent research on the connection between the distribution of capabilities and war has concentrated on a hypothesis long central to systemic theories of power transition or hegemonic stability: that major war arises out of a power shift in favor of a rising state dissatisfied with a status quo defended by a declining satisfied state.10 Though they have garnered substantial empirical support, these theories have yet to solve two intertwined empirical and theoretical puzzles—each of which might be explained by positional concerns for status. First, if the material costs and benefits of a given status quo are what matters, why would a state be dissatisfied with the very status quo that had abetted its rise? The rise of China today naturally prompts this question, but it is hardly a novel situation. Most of the best known and most consequential power transitions in history featured rising challengers that were prospering mightily under the status quo. In case after case, historians argue that these revisionist powers sought recognition and standing rather than specific alterations to the existing rules and practices that constituted the order of the day. In each paradigmatic case of hegemonic war, the claims of the rising power are hard to reduce to instrumental adjustment of the status quo. In R. Ned Lebow’s reading, for example, Thucydides’ account tells us that the rise of Athens posed unacceptable threats not to the security or welfare of Sparta but rather to its identity as leader of the Greek world, which was an important cause of the Spartan assembly’s vote for war.11 The issues that inspired Louis XIV’s and Napoleon’s dissatisfaction with the status quo were many and varied, but most accounts accord [End Page 31] independent importance to the drive for a position of unparalleled primacy. In these and other hegemonic struggles among leading states in post-Westphalian Europe, the rising challenger’s dissatisfaction is often difficult to connect to the material costs and benefits of the status quo, and much contemporary evidence revolves around issues of recognition and status.12 Wilhemine Germany is a fateful case in point. As Paul Kennedy has argued, underlying material trends as of 1914 were set to propel Germany’s continued rise indefinitely, so long as Europe remained at peace.13 Yet Germany chafed under the very status quo that abetted this rise and its elite focused resentment on its chief trading partner—the great power that presented the least plausible threat to its security: Great Britain. At fantastic cost, it built a battleship fleet with no plausible strategic purpose other than to stake a claim on global power status.14 Recent historical studies present strong evidence that, far from fearing attacks from Russia and France, German leaders sought to provoke them, knowing that this would lead to a long, expensive, and sanguinary war that Britain was certain to join.15 And of all the motivations swirling round these momentous decisions, no serious historical account fails to register German leaders’ oft-expressed yearning for “a place in the sun.” The second puzzle is bargaining failure. Hegemonic theories tend to model war as a conflict over the status quo without specifying precisely what the status quo is and what flows of benefits it provides to states.16 Scholars generally follow Robert Gilpin in positing that the underlying issue concerns a “desire to redraft the rules by which relations among nations work,” “the nature and governance of the system,” and “the distribution of territory among the states in the system.”17 If these are the [End Page 32] issues at stake, then systemic theories of hegemonic war and power transition confront the puzzle brought to the fore in a seminal article by James Fearon: what prevents states from striking a bargain that avoids the costs of war? 18 Why can’t states renegotiate the international order as underlying capabilities distributions shift their relative bargaining power? Fearon proposed that one answer consistent with strict rational choice assumptions is that such bargains are infeasible when the issue at stake is indivisible and cannot readily be portioned out to each side. Most aspects of a given international order are readily divisible, however, and, as Fearon stressed, “both the intrinsic complexity and richness of most matters over which states negotiate and the availability of linkages and side-payments suggest that intermediate bargains typically will exist.”19 Thus, most scholars have assumed that the indivisibility problem is trivial, focusing on two other rational choice explanations for bargaining failure: uncertainty and the commitment problem.20 In the view of many scholars, it is these problems, rather than indivisibility, that likely explain leaders’ inability to avail themselves of such intermediate bargains. Yet recent research inspired by constructivism shows how issues that are physically divisible can become socially indivisible, depending on how they relate to the identities of decision makers.21 Once issues surrounding the status quo are framed in positional terms as bearing on the disputants’ relative standing, then, to the extent that they value their standing itself, they may be unwilling to pursue intermediate bargaining solutions. Once linked to status, easily divisible issues that theoretically provide opportunities for linkages and side payments of various sorts may themselves be seen as indivisible and thus unavailable as avenues for possible intermediate bargains. The historical record surrounding major wars is rich with evidence suggesting that positional concerns over status frustrate bargaining: expensive, protracted conflict over what appear to be minor issues; a propensity on the part of decision makers to frame issues in terms of relative rank even when doing so makes bargaining harder; decision-makers’ [End Page 33] inability to accept feasible divisions of the matter in dispute even when failing to do so imposes high costs; demands on the part of states for observable evidence to confirm their estimate of an improved position in the hierarchy; the inability of private bargains to resolve issues; a frequently observed compulsion for the public attainment of concessions from a higher ranked state; and stubborn resistance on the part of states to which such demands are addressed even when acquiescence entails limited material cost. The literature on bargaining failure in the context of power shifts remains inconclusive, and it is premature to take any empirical pattern as necessarily probative. Indeed, Robert Powell has recently proposed that indivisibility is not a rationalistic explanation for war after all: fully rational leaders with perfect information should prefer to settle a dispute over an indivisible issue by resorting to a lottery rather than a war certain to destroy some of the goods in dispute. What might prevent such bargaining solutions is not indivisibility itself, he argues, but rather the parties’ inability to commit to abide by any agreement in the future if they expect their relative capabilities to continue to shift.22 This is the credible commitment problem to which many theorists are now turning their attention. But how it relates to the information problem that until recently dominated the formal literature remains to be seen.23 The larger point is that positional concerns for status may help account for the puzzle of bargaining failure. In the rational choice bargaining literature, war is puzzling because it destroys some of the benefits or flows of benefits in dispute between the bargainers, who would be better off dividing the spoils without war. Yet what happens to these models if what matters for states is less the flows of material benefits themselves than their implications for relative status? The salience of this question depends on the relative importance of positional concern for status among states. Do Great Powers Care about Status? Mainstream theories generally posit that states come to blows over an international status quo only when it has implications for their security or material well-being. The guiding assumption is that a state’s satisfaction [End Page 34] with its place in the existing order is a function of the material costs and benefits implied by that status.24 By that assumption, once a state’s status in an international order ceases to affect its material wellbeing, its relative standing will have no bearing on decisions for war or peace. But the assumption is undermined by cumulative research in disciplines ranging from neuroscience and evolutionary biology to economics, anthropology, sociology, and psychology that human beings are powerfully motivated by the desire for favorable social status comparisons. This research suggests that the preference for status is a basic disposition rather than merely a strategy for attaining other goals.25 People often seek tangibles not so much because of the welfare or security they bring but because of the social status they confer. Under certain conditions, the search for status will cause people to behave in ways that directly contradict their material interest in security and/or prosperity. Pg. 33-35</span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Nye 90 former assistant secretary of defense and president of Harvard's Kennedy school of government </span>
<span class="Underline">(Joseph, Bound To Lead: The Changing Nature Of American Power 1990, p. 16-17)</span>

<span class="Underline">Some suggest that the current debate on American decline should be regarded as a register of mass psychology and popular fads rather than an analysis of power.42 Others ask why Americans should worry about power. Why not focus solely on wealth and live as well as Swedes or Canadians? The short answer is that the United States is not in the same geopolitical position as Sweden or Canada. It cannot afford a free ride in world politics. If the largest country in a world of nation-states abdicates leadership (as the United States did in the 1920s), the results can be disastrous for all. In an assessment of the debate about American decline, British scholar Susan Strange concludes that "we are all in agreement... on the critical nature of the present end-of-century decade. We share a common perception that mankind... is standing at a fork in the road... In the last resort, it may be that this common concern is more significant than the differences in interpretation. Decline and War. Perceptions of change in the relative power of nations are of critical importance to understanding the relationship between decline and war. One of the oldest generalizations about international politics attributes the onset of major wars to shifts in power among the leading nations. Thus Thucydides accounted for the onset of the Peloponnesian War which destroyed the power of ancient Athens. The history of the interstate system since 1500 is punctuated by severe wars in which one country struggled to surpass another as the leading state. If, as Robert Gilpin argues, "international politics has not changed fundamentally over the millennia," the implications for the future are bleak. And if fears about shifting power precipitate a major war in a world with 50,000 nuclear weapons, history as we know it may end.</span>



<span class="Underline">Space weapons are technologically feasible – it’s just a question of policy </span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Arguments in the first category spill the most ink in opposition, but they are relatively easy to dispatch. Consider first that history is littered with prophesies of technical and scientific inadequacy, such as Lord Kelvin's famous retort, "Heavier-than-air flying machines are impossible." Kelvin, a leading physicist and president of the Royal Society, made this boast in 1895, and no less an inventor than Thomas Edison agreed. The possibility of spaceflight prompted even more gloomy pessimism. A New York Times editorial in 1921 excoriated Robert Goddard for his silly notions of rocket-propelled space exploration (an opinion it has since retracted): "Goddard does not know the relation between action and reaction and the need to have something better than a vacuum against which to react. He seems to lack the basic knowledge ladled out daily in high schools." Compounding its error in judgment, opining in 1936, the Times stated flatly, "A rocket will never be able to leave the Earth's atmosphere."3 Bluntly negative scientific opinion on the possibility of space weapons writ large has been weeded out over time. No credible scientist today makes the claim of impossibility, and so less encompassing arguments are now the rule. The debate has moved to more subtle and scientifically sustainable arguments that a particular space weapon is not feasible. Mountains of mathematical formulae have been piled high in an effort, one by one, simply to bury the concept. But these limitations on specific systems are less due to theoretical analysis than to assumptions about future funding and available technology.4 The real objection, too often hidden from view, is that a particular weapons system or capability cannot be developed and deployed within the planned budget or within narrowly specified means. When one relaxes those assumptions, opposition on technical grounds generally falls away. Furthermore, counterexamples exist—for example, the Brilliant Pebbles space-based interceptor system was the most advanced defense concept to emerge from the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI). After a comprehensive series of technical reviews by even the strongest critics in 1989, it achieved major defense acquisition program status in 1990, was curtailed by congressional cuts in 1991 and 1992, and then was canceled by the Clinton administration in 1993. But the cancellation of the most advanced, least expensive, and most cost-effective missile defense system produced by the SDI program was for political, not technical, reasons.5 The devil may very well be in the details. But when critics oppose an entire class of weapons based upon analyses that show particular weapons will not work, their arguments fail to consider the inevitable arrival of fresh concepts or new technologies that change all notions of current capabilities. Have we thought out the details enough to say categorically that no technology will allow for a viable space weapons capability? If so, then the argument is pat; no counter is possible. But if there are technologies or conditions that could allow for the successful weaponization of space, then ought we not argue the policy details first, lest we be swept away by a course of action that merely chases the technology wherever it may go?</span>

<span class="Underline">Reliance on space for terrestrial warfare guarantees space conflict</span>
<span class="Underline">Smith, Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">We have arrived at what will undoubtedly be the most controversial part of this chapter, wherein we discuss spacepower and its nexus with warfare. It is controversial only because space has yet to be overtly weaponized or generally recognized as an arena of open combat. Many, if not most, want to keep it a weapons-free peaceful sanctuary, particularly the suprastate actors. Just because all other media are weaponized and used as arenas of combat does not mean that space will automatically follow suit.19 Perhaps this generation will figure out how to keep the beast of war in chains short enough to prevent it from going to space. But the next (and each succeeding) generation must also keep the chains short. Unfortunately, the constant march of technology is making space more important to states at the same time it is making it easier to build space weapons. In anticipating the future of spacepower for theoretical discussion, we can do little more than extract a roadmap from the history of human activity and extrapolate forward. The preponderance of evidence suggests that space will be no different than air, land, and sea regarding warfare. In the words of Colin Gray: [quote] It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically from the evidence of two and a half millennia, that anything of great strategic importance to one belligerent, for that reason has to be worth attacking by others. And the greater the importance, the greater has to be the incentive to damage, disable, capture, or destroy it. In the bluntest of statements: space warfare is a certainty in the future because the use of space in war has become vital. . . . Regardless of public sentimental or environmentally shaped attitudes towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming.20 The strategic value of space to states is not in question. Advanced spacefaring states are already reliant—and moving toward dependence—on space-derived services for activities across every sector of their societies. Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.21 [unquote] […continues…] There are many good reasons for not putting weapons in space for the purpose of space attack. Among them are the enormous expenses of putting them in space and their vulnerability once there if they are left undefended. But there is a paradoxical logic to warfare that increases the likelihood of someone actually doing it: Because there are many good reasons not to put weapons in space, putting weapons in space makes little sense; no one is expecting weapons in space; therefore, an actor achieves the element of surprise by putting weapons in space! </span>

<span class="Underline">Weaponizing is key to preserve space power</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">If space is a military domain, and I am convinced that it is, then it should follow this logic. A state that relies on military support from space—the effects it achieves from having assets in space—must plan to gain at least limited control of space in times of conflict. And, as is obvious from the description of analogous domains above, control is possible only from within the domain. If the state is unwilling to put weapons into space, then it cannot hope to ensure effects from space when another state attempts to contest its position. Its logical recourse is to wean itself quickly from space support, enhancement, and enablement, and move to a pre space military force structure. It must then stop wasting procurement money, production, and personnel on military space. If it is likely the military will fight without space support, then it should train to do so. The most efficient military in a space-denied environment will be the one 23 that does not require the use of space at all. Of course, if a military force is proficient in fighting without space, why should it spend scarce resources to organize, train, and equip itself to fight any other way? It is the height of folly for a commander to rely on a capacity that may or may not be available when needed. With military power preparing to fight without space, government funding for continuing military space support will be scaled back, and ultimately cut. Without a military presence to protect fragile space assets and ensure treaty compliance in space, along with drastic reductions in space industry as military contracts end, commercial space development will be drastically curtailed. It would be absolutely prudent to develop ground, sea, and air-based anti-space weapons, so that an opponent cannot use space freely against it, but to waste capital and effort on a nice-to-have capacity in space that is not needed to conduct operations on the earth would be ludicrous. Following this logic, denying oneself the capacity to put military force in space is tantamount to giving up on the military (and probably civil) value of space. Lao Tsu’s jar is broken. </span>



<span class="Underline">Err aff on risk assessment- hidden benefits</span>
<span class="Underline">Wohlforth 07 [ William, “Unipolar Stability: the rules of power analysis” Harvard International Review, Vol 29, No 1]</span>
<span class="Underline">Defining power as the ability to solve whatever global problem is currently in the headlines virtually guarantees highly volatile prognostications about polarity. This sort of headline chasing led to talk of “empire” in 2002 and 2003, just as it feeds today’s multipolar mania. Assessing active attempts by the United States to employ its power capabilities may well be the most misleading way to think about power. This approach inevitably leads to a selection bias against evidence of the indirect, “structural” effects of US power that are not dependent upon active management. Many effects that can be attributed to the unipolar distribution of power are developments that never occur: counter-balancing coalitions, Cold War-scale arms races, hegemonic rivalry for dominance, security dilemmas among Asian powers, and decisions by Japan and others to nuclearize. Clearly, assessing unipolarity’s potential effects involves weighing such non-events against the more salient examples in which active attempts to use power resources are stymied. But the selection bias goes much further. Not only are non-events downplayed in comparison to salient events that appear to demonstrate the powerlessness of the United States, but patterns of events that do go its way are often missed. Consider, for example, how often Washington’s failure to have its way in the United Nations is cited as compared to its experience in the IMF. And, even in the United Nations, a focus on highly contested issues, such as the attempt at a second resolution authorizing the invasion of Iraq, fails to note how the institution’s entire agenda has shifted to address concerns, such as terrorism, that are particularly important to the United States.</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]