[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

1) res asks m q, no solvency
presume aff b/c norms & time skew & aff speaks first
Res= ambiguous, specific instances don't affirm or negate
Res presupposes existence of terms in the resolution
CX checks

Morality based in rational self-interest

1) impartiality requires rationality based off constraints or else other actors taken advantage of
2) self-interest guides action

vc=contractarianism
Gauthier contextualizes the standard
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span> David Gauthier (Prof. of Badass @ U Pittsburgh) Moral By Agreement 1987 "what ideal of....an other's interests"
conditional logic says don't run skep

1) standard reflects how rational agents acted
"her...persons must enter"

2) morality not concerned with luck
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span> John Rawls <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(//A Theory of Justice//. Revised ed. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1999.)says</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">: </span>

3) res analogous to standard

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"one should not...with restrictions"</span>

c1= affirm under standard

Actors would be conservative
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span> Ann Cudd “Contractarianism” 2007 Stanford Encyclepedia of Philospohy
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">"one should not...with these restrictions"</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">1) key to life pursuit</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">2) people not know distributino of resources save themselves</span>
3) gamblers continue to gamble so they'd affirm

Underview:
neg only access one avenue of permissibility b/c ground skew. Permiss=easier+multiple ways to access.
Ground key to fairness. Fairness is a voter

==Negative== 
The concept of Obligation only makes sense in the context of divine command theory to god.

Elizabeth Anscombe “Modern Moral Philosophy” Philosophy 1958 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.philosophy.uncc.edu/mleldrid/cmt/mmp.html]]</span>

But, divine command theory doesn’t make sense, since it either disproves god’s ethical authority or proves an external standard for ethics that exists independently of god,

(James, Professor of Philosophy atUniversityofAlabamaatBirmingham. “The Elements of Moral Philosophy”. McGraw Hill. 2003. 50-3)

Good is evaluated via innate characteristics

Daniel Hirst “Neo-Aristotelian attempts to bind Morality to Human Nature” Emergent Australian Philosophers 2008.

VirtuesAREthe will to power, nothing is more essential to our flourishing
Christine Daigle “Nietzsche: Virtue Ethics…Virtue Politics?” 2006 The Journal of Nietzsche Studies

The Will to Power and life are exploitation
Friedriech Nietzsche “Beyond Good and Evil” Google Books 1886

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]