[[toc]]

=Affirmative= 
==Whitey on the Moon 1AC - Valley== 

Whitey on the moon by Gil Heron

A rat done bit my sister Nell.  (with Whitey on the moon)  Her face and arms began to swell.  (and Whitey's on the moon)  I can't pay no doctor bill.  (but Whitey's on the moon)  Ten years from now I'll be payin' still.  (while Whitey's on the moon)  The man jus' upped my rent las' night.  ('cause Whitey's on the moon)  No hot water, no toilets, no lights.  (but Whitey's on the moon)  I wonder why he's uppin' me?  ('cause Whitey's on the moon?)  I wuz already payin' 'im fifty a week.  (with Whitey on the moon)  Taxes takin' my whole damn check,  Junkies makin' me a nervous wreck,  The price of food is goin' up,  An' as if all that shit wuzn't enough:  A rat done bit my sister Nell.  (with Whitey on the moon)  Her face an' arm began to swell.  (but Whitey's on the
moon)  Was all that money I made las' year  (for Whitey on the moon?)  How come there ain't no money here?  (Hmm! Whitey's on the moon)  Y'know I jus' 'bout had my fill  (of Whitey on the moon)  I think I'll sen' these doctor bills,  Airmail special  (to Whitey on the moon)

The role of the ballot for this debate then is to provide a space for those who are excluded from this discussion by the discourse of space. We will refer to this process of silencing as structural violence.

Despite the fact that there is more representation in politics by minorities there is still a failure to discuss the central issues that contribute to our decadent racist society. Politics alone cannot question why we put whitey on the moon and forget about Gil Scott Heron’s sister Nell. We need to change the game.

Mumia ’11 (Mumia Abu Jamal, “With Leaders Like These”, 8/22/11, http://hw.libsyn.com/p/5/2/0/52022a4699ea5ce8/WithLeadersLikeThese_long.mp3?sid=3d6888b083023bd13ef5d135543d749e&l_sid=18813&l_eid=&l_mid=2693769)


It has taken a while to reach this conclusion but upon reflection it’s inescapable, why after a half-century of the road and the election of more black political leaders than at any time since reconstruction are the lives, fortunes, prospects, and hopes of black people so grim? Education is a shambles, with the drop out rate nearly 50% in most central cities. Black communities are being gentrified into obsolescence, and joblessness stocks families by the highest percentage since they began with recording such figures. In cities boasting black mayors and black police chiefs. Police violence against black “so called citizens” barely elicit protest and the prison industrial complex traps generations in chains. One is forced to conclude that black America suffers from similar maladies faced by continental African nations. Neo-colonialism with a political class with the appearance of freedom and independence while still behold economic powers beyond their communities, which decide policy and programs of exploitation of the people. Sadly more black politicians does not equal more black political power for in this surfeit of black representation black voices of discontent are muted while wage buckles in black hearts and minds. And rather than black politicians speaking for those who voted for them, they too are muted more loyal to party than people, more anxious to not “rock the boat” when water rushes through the hall, they speak to them preaching patience while home burns, and they mimic white politicians echoing their words while representing communities that could not be more disparate. If black politicians are to do the very same thing as their white counterparts, why have them at all?






Our advocacy for this debate then is to make our politics personal. The role of the ballot is to affirm the team that performatively and methodologically carves out a space for the voices of those who have experienced oppression and been silenced by a society that has different priorities. With that in mind I will share my personal story. It reflects the feeling of not having a voice…of being silenced…and finally about finding a way to survive and liberate myself along with those around me.

He told me to lie down and to relax and said everything was going to be okay. Then he shoved his tongue in my mouth and began to fill my shapeless body up and down while I tried to get away but I couldn’t make a sound, no one would have heard me anyway because there was no one around to save me that day.
I was four
I was four years old when I was molested and when my innocence was robbed from me and you see I tried to plea for help. But my voice was muted because I was nothing and he was something, he was the molester and I was the molested, he was my boogey man in my dreams where I was haunted.
1,000 females are raped a year and yet the government has muted their voices so no one can hear them. The United States Federal Government has become the boogey man in this new day and age, and they lock our voices in a cage and throw away the key. But like a whore dancing on a pole, the government has always been about the money.

This silence is not limited to the sexual violence that I experienced as a child. Our government plays the role the oppressor when it makes invisible the question of structural violence despite the fact that structural violence accounts for more deaths than any other impact the Government chooses to prioritize.
Mumia ‘98 [“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]

It has often been observed that America is a truly violent nation, as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence that occurs daily in the nation. Every year, some 20,000 people are killed by others, and
additional 20,000 folks kill themselves. Add to this the non lethal violence that Americans daily
inflict on each other, and we begin to see the tracings of a nation immersed in a fever of violence. But, as remarkable, and harrowing as this level and degree of violence is, it is, by far, not the most violent feature of living in the midst of the American empire. We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, in a nation that condones and ignores wide-ranging "structural" violence, of a kind that destroys human life with a breathtaking ruthlessness. Former Massachusetts prison official and writer, Dr. James Gilligan observes;"By `structural violence' I mean the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted by those who are above them. Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of the class structure; and that structure is itself a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting `structural' with `behavioral violence' by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on." -- (Gilligan, J., MD, Violence: Reflections On a National Epidemic (New York: Vintage, 1996), 192.) This form of violence, not covered by any of the majoritarian, corporate, ruling-class protected media, is invisible to us and because of its invisibility, all the more insidious. How dangerous is it -- really? Gilligan notes: "[E]very fifteen years, on the average, as many people die because of relative poverty as would be killed in a nuclear war that caused 232 million deaths; and every single year, two to three times as many people die from poverty throughout the world as were killed by the Nazi genocide of the Jews over a six-year period. This is, in effect, the equivalent of an ongoing, unending, in fact accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide on the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world." [Gilligan, p. 196]

They don’t care about how we feel; they just care about makin’ them dollar bills. 15 million slaves were brought here in the Atlantic slave trade, working hard for white plantation owners and never really getting paid. Black slaves fought for freedom but the white men would beat um’, you see umm after they got their freedom they sectioned blacks off in the ghetto slums. And all the government did was ignore um’

Denying white supremacy’s pervasiveness ignores and worsens social problems. It affects our knowledge-production, normalizing racist thoughts, altering how we view each other, problems, and life itself.
hooks in 2000 (Bell, from Talking Race and Racism)
Teachers are often among that group most reluctant to acknowledge the extent to which white-supremacist thinking informs every aspect of our culture including the way we learn, the content of what we learn, and the manner in which we are taught. Much of the consciousness-raising around the issue of white supremacy and racism has focused attention on teaching what racism is and how it manifests itself in the daily workings of our lives. In anti-racist workshops and seminars, much of the time is often spent simply breaking through the denial that leads many unenlightened white people, as well as people of color, to pretend that racist and white-supremacist thought and action are no longer pervasive in our culture. In classroom settings I have often listened to groups of students tell me that racism really no longer shapes the contours of our lives, that there is just no such thing as racial difference, that "we are all just people." Then a few minutes later I give them an exercise. I ask if they were about to die and could choose to come back as a white male, a white female, a black female, or black male, which identity would they choose. Each time I do this exercise, most individuals,irrespective of gender or race invariably choose whiteness, and most often white maleness. Black females are the least chosen. When I ask students to explain their choice they proceed to do a sophisticated analysis of privilege based on race (with perspectives that take gender and class into consideration). This disconnect between their conscious repudiation of race as a marker of privilege and their unconscious understanding is a gap we have to bridge, an illusion that must be shattered before a meaningful discussion of race and racism can take place. This exercise helps them to move past their denial of the existence of racism. It lets us begin to work together toward a more unbiased approach to knowledge. Teaching, lecturing, and facilitating workshops and writing about ending racism and other forms of domination, I have found that confronting racial biases, and more important, white-supremacist thinking, usually requires that all of us take a critical look at what we learned early in life about the nature of race. Those initial imprints seem to over determine attitudes about race. In writing groups we often begin simply with our first remembered awareness of race. Exploring our earliest ways of knowing about race, we find it easier to think about the question of standpoint. Individual white people, moving from denial of race to awareness, suddenly realize that white supremacist culture encourages white folks to deny their understanding of race, to claim as part of their superiority that they are beyond thinking about race. Yet when the denial stops, it becomes clear that underneath their skin most white folks have an intimate awareness of the politics of race and racism. They have learned to pretend that it is not so, to take on the posture of learned helplessness. It has become more fashionable, and at times profitable, for white folks in academic environments to think and write about race. It is as though the very act of thinking about the nature of race and racism is still seen as "dirty" work best suited for black folks and other people of color or a form of privileged "acting out" for anti-racist white folks. Black folks/people of color who talk too much about race are often represented by the racist mindset as "playing the race card" (note how this very expression trivializes discussions of racism, implying it's all just a game), or as simply insane. White folks who talk race, however, are often represented as patrons, as superior civilized beings. Yet their actions are just another indication of white-supremacist power, as in "we are so much more civilized and intelligent than black folks/people of color that we know better than they do all that can be understood about race." Simply talking about race, white supremacy, and racism can lead one to be typecast, excluded, placed lower on the food chain in the existing white-supremacist system. No wonder then that such talk can become an exercise in powerlessness because of the way it is filtered and mediated by those who hold the power to both control public speech.


Black people have been treated poorly from the start and poverty has become a part of who we are. Because of our race and because of who we are we have faced brutality, and they wonder why we act the way we act, and it’s because we are stuck in a ghetto mentality. We were placed there in 1430 and we cry save me, but the government rather spend money on a space race and forget the races and faces of people in need.
On our currency it says “In God We Trust” and our nations slogan has become “ God Bless America” but let me tell ya’ if that was really our nations prayer then they would know that God our savior has blessed us to be a blessing and to help those who have no expectancy. And that Christ would want us to extend grace towards people as he. But I guess this is just a big front and is just as fake as the marriage between Michael Jackson and Lisa Marie Presley.


It is crucial that we evaluate and understand our historical contexts and our views of the world and our fellow people in our realities in order to provide us the knowledge for the liberation of mankind to break free from the psychological and physical chains of oppression in our world
Freire in 1968 Paulo Freire. Educational Revolutionary. “Pedagogy of the Oppressed”. Pg

In order to determine the what and how of that witness, it is therefore essential to have an increasingly critical knowledge of the current historical context, the view of the world held by the people, and the principal contradiction of society, and the principal aspect of that contradiction. Since these dimensions of witness are historical, dialogical, and therefore dialectical, witness cannot simply import them from other contexts without previously analyzing its own. To do otherwise is to absolutize and mythologize the relative; alienation then becomes unavoidable. Witness, in the dialogical theory of action, is one of the principal expressions of the cultural and educational character of the revolution. The essential elements of witness which do not vary historically include: consistency between words and actions; boldness which urges the witnesses to confront existence as a permanent risk; radicalization (not sectarianism) leading both the witnesses and the ones receiving that witness to increasing action courage to love (which, far from being accommodation to an unjust world is rather the transformation of that world in behalf of that world in behalf of the increasing liberation of humankind); and faith in the people, since it is to them that witness to the people, because of their dialectical relations with the dominant elites, also affects the latter (who respond to that witness in their customary way).


My uncle was almost killed for whistling at a white woman, and my grandfather was a sharecropper who didn’t own his own land. My other uncle was a black panther who wanted to fight for what’s right but the government acted as though they didn’t understand the black man and tried to bring the darkness into white. But what’s right is out of sight of those in the political office. They have scales over their eyes and justify themselves by telling us lies.

Paulo Freire in 1970 gives us incite to how our discussions that emphasizes turning our discourse and activism into true action – one that is work, that is praxis necessary to transform the ways in which we approach our views based upon this resolution

Paulo Friere, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University,1970

An unauthentic word, one which is unable to transform reality, results when dichotomy is imposed upon its constitutive elements. When a word is deprived of its dimension of action, reflection automatically suffers as well; and the word is changed into idle chatter, into verbalism, into an alienated and alienating “blah.” It becomes an empty word, one which cannot denounce the world, for denunciation is impossible without a commitment to transform, and there is no transformation without action. On the other hand, if action is emphasized exclusively to the detriment of reflection, the word is converted into activism. The latter — action for action’s sake — negates the true praxis and makes dialogue impossible. Either dichotomy, by creating unauthentic forms of existence, creates also unauthentic forms of thought which reinforce the original dichotomy. Human existence cannot be silent nor can it be nourished by false words, but only by true words, with which men and women transform the world. To exist humanly is to name the world, to change it. Once named, the world in its turn reappears to the namers as a problem and requires of them a new naming. Human beings are not built in silence,[3]but in word, in work, in action-reflection. But while to say the true word — which is work, which is praxis — is to transform the world, saying that word is not the privilege of some few persons, but the right of everyone. Consequently no one can say a true word alone — nor can she say it for another, in a prescriptive act which robs others of their words






=Negative= 
==Komarov 1NC - Valley== 

The way the affirmative fantasizes about colonizing space as an object to be colonized in the same way America was in the 1850’s, ignores the fact that this idea of Manifest Destiny no longer applies. This year’s resolution is not a feel good story; space is a treacherous place that dehumanizes the men who attempt to explore it to the point of death.
Doran and Bizony 98’ (Jamie Doran of Atlantic Celtic Films is an award winning documentary producer and has one multiple awards. Piers Bizony is author of multiple award winning books and documentaries on space exploration. “Starman” Chapter 11)
On January 27, 1967 Gus Grissom and his crewmates, Ed White and Roger Chaffee, clambered into the first flight-ready Apollo, atop a half-sized version of the Saturn rocket. This was supposedly a routine check-out procedure, during which they would run a simulated countdown with all systems running and bring the ship to the very last second before take-off, without actually igniting Saturn’s engines. Morale around the pad was poor, even before the test began, because the new capsule had not come up to expectations. The detail work on the electrical and communications systems was inadequate, prompting the astronauts to stick a mouldy lemon on top of the capsule’s duplicate simulator to show their contempt for the overall design. When Chaffee climbed through the hatch of the flight vehicle to start the test, he complained that the interior smelled of sour milk. The consensus was that the balky environmental control hardware was generating fumes. Then the radio system glitched. Furious, Grissom shouted, ‘How the hell are we supposed to communicate with mission control from space when we can’t even talk to them on the ground!’ The mood around the Kennedy launch complex was distinctly strained as the technicians locked Apollo’s heavy hatch into place, sealing the crew inside. Five hours into the test, Grissom’s garbled voice on the crackling radio link said, ‘We’ve got a fire in the capsule.’ A few seconds later, another voice (possibly White’s) was more urgent. ‘Hey, we’re burning up in here!’ There was a scream of pain, then just a hiss of static as the radio went dead. Suddenly the side of the capsule split open. There was a horrifying ‘whoosh!’ as the top of the launch tower was engulfed in thick, acrid smoke and flames. The pad crew, high atop the gantry, tried desperately to get the astronauts out, but the smoke was impenetrable and the heat quite overpowering. It took four minutes to open Ap0ll0’s hatch, by which time all three astronauts were dead} The tragedy was reminiscent of Valentin Bondarenko’s death in the isolation chamber back in 1960, but NASA could not draw any lessons from that because of the obsessive secrecy that always surrounded the Soviet space effort. NASA entered a two—year hiatus, a period of self—doubt, its technical and political reputation severely tarnished by the deaths.

But it doesn’t stop at death - Vladimir Komarov, the epitome of space travel at its true form.
Doran and Bizony 98’ (Jamie Doran of Atlantic Celtic Films is an award winning documentary producer and has one multiple awards. Piers Bizony is author of multiple award winning books and documentaries on space exploration. “Starman” Chapter 11)

The Soviet cosmonauts grieved for their US counterparts, and were permitted to send official expressions of condolence to the dead men’s families, even as Leonid Brezhnev and Vasily Mishin speculated about the window of opportunity that had arisen for the Soviet space effort to take advantage of NASA’s enforced slow-down. The Soviets’ gigantic N—1 lunar superbooster was running badly behind schedule, and even the demoralized Americans knew that it did not present a serious threat. According to a National Intelligence Estimate document of March 2, 1967, their appraisal of the N-1 was that: Several factors militate against the Soviets being able to compete with the Apollo timetable . . . Their lunar launch vehicle will probably not be ready for test until mid-1968, and even then we would expect to see a series of unmanned tests lasting about a year to qualify the system before a lunar landing might he attempted. In the meantime they still have to test rendezvous and docking techniques} The landing and return of a man on the moon seemed very far off yet for Mishin and his beleaguered team at OKB-1; but a much simpler circumlunar flight, jules Verne-style, might be achievable without the need for the colossal and as yet unflown N-1 booster. Korolev’s old rivals in the aerospace community, Glushko and Chelomei, were developing a rocket called Proton, which was larger and more powerful than the R—7 but not quite powerful enough to carry a lunar landing module as well as a crew return capsule. Mishin faced a difficult choice: if he opted for the circumlunar flight aboard Chelomei’s Proton, he would have to sacrifice some development work on the N—1 and the bug-like landing craft; but if he could achieve a fairly basic ‘once-around the-moon’ flight while NASA was still preoccupied with recovering from the Apollo fire, any subsequent walkabout on the lunar surface by American astronauts would come across as yet another second-best. With this tantalizing prize in mind, work on the new Soyuz capsule was accelerated, while the N-1 was allowed to fall further behind and Korolev’s old enemies dug their claws deeper into OKB-I. The cosmonaut team was affected by all these complications. Leonov began training a squad for a touchdown mission with the N-1, which would include the use of the tiny one•man lunar landing pod, while another team of astronauts was prepared for circumlunar flights aboard the Proton, using an elongated Soyuz variant known as a ‘Zond’. Meanwhile, yet another group, including Gagarin, was training for the first basic earth—orbital test of the Soyuz mated to a standard R-7. In contrast to the overall NASA effort, with Apollo as its privileged centrepiece, the Soviet lunar progammes were divided, confused and contradictory, especially in the absence of Korolev’s managerial discipline. By the spring of 1967, development of the Soyuz was moving towards that crucial first flight. On April 22 the Soviet propaganda departments felt confident enough to let slip some rumours to the international press agency, UPI. ‘The up-coming mission will include the most spectacular Soviet space venture in history – an attempted in-flight hook-up between two ships and a transfer of crews’ But some doubts seemed to be preying on Nikolai Kamanin’s mind. His diary more or less implies political pressure to push the Soyuz launch schedule forward: ‘ We must be fully convinced that the flight will be a success. It will be more complicated than previous flights, and the preparation will have to be appropriately longer . . . We do not intend to rush our programme. Excessive haste leads to fatal accidents, as in the case of the three American astronauts last January.’ Kamanin’s anxiety presaged disaster. Alexei Leonov says, ‘The first manned test of the Soyuz was assigned to Vladimir Komarov, with Yuri Gagarin as the back-up, and another Soyuz spacecraft was being prepared for Yuri to fly at a later date. He trained very hard for two years, reporting the progress of his training in detail to the State Committee. Then Komarov flew for two days [specifically, 27 hours] and we had a big problem’ Komarov’s launch was supposed to be followed a day later by another Soyuz with three more crewmen aboard: Valery Bykovsky, Yevgeny Khrunov and Alexei Yeliseyev. The two Soyuz ships were supposed to dock, then Khrunov and Yeliseyev were scheduled to spacewalk into Komarov’s capsule and sit in his spare seats, thus producing another world ‘first’ — going up in one ship and coming home in another. This was designed as a rehearsal for a future moon mission. The Soyuz did not yet include an airtight docking tunnel, so the only way of swapping a crewman between the capsule and a future lunar lander would be to spacewalk him from hatch to hatch. It seems likely that the Brezhnev administration wanted the docking to take place on or around May Day, The year 1967 had a special significance in the communist calendar; it was the fiftieth Anniversary of the 1917 Revolution. The concept of making a ‘union’ between two spaceships collaborating in orbit was highly symbolic, especially for a ruling government obsessed with symbols. In 1982 Victor Yevsikov, an engineer on the Soyuz development team who helped design the heat—shield, admitted from his new safe haven in Canada that heavy political pressure was applied to Vasily Mishin and OKB-1 to get the two Soyuz ships into orbit on time: Some launches were made almost exclusively for propaganda purposes. An example, timed to celebrate International Solidarity Day in 1967, was the ill-fated flight of Vladimir Komarov . . . The management of the OKB-1 Design Bureau knew that the Soyuz vehicle had not been completely debugged, and more time was needed to make it operational, but the Communist Party ordered the launch, despite the fact that four preliminary unmanned tests had revealed faults . . . The flight took place despite Vasily Mishin’s refusal to sign the endorsement papers for the Soyuz re—entry vehicle, which he considered unready.‘ As the deadline for the mission drew near, OKB-1 technicians knew of 203 separate faults in the spacecraft that still required attention. Yuri Gagarin was closely involved in this assessments By March 9, 1967, he and his closest cosmonaut colleagues had produced a formal ten—page document, with the help of the engineers, in which all the problems were outlined in detail. The trouble was, no one knew what to do with it. Within Soviet society, bad news always reflected badly on the messenger. Quite apart from Mishin, as many as Fifty senior engineers knew about the report, or had helped draft it, but none of them felt sufficiently confident to go into the Kremlin and do what had to be done: request that Leonid Brezhnev play down the symbolism of the pending launch, so as to allow a decent delay for technical improvements. The cosmonauts and space bureaucrats eventually adopted an age•old technique. They recruited a non—partisan messenger from outside the Soyuz programme to deliver the document for them: Yuri Gagarin’s KGB friend Venyamin Russayev.
Early on the morning of April 23, 1967, the Soyuz was propped up against the gantry at Baikonur, ready for launch, according to the original schedule. As Komarov made his Final preparations before taking the lift up to his seat in the capsule, Gagarin seemed to have forgotten that the torture inflicted on back-up pilots in the old Vostok days no longer applied. Instead of forcing them into spacesuits and driving them all the way to the base of the pad to watch their more fortunate colleagues ascend to the top of the rocket, back-ups were now stood down from duty the night before a flight — only this time, Komarov was not necessarily the more fortunate man. The journalist Yaroslav Golovanov noticed Gagarin behaving very strangely. ‘He demanded to be put into the protective spacesuit. It was already clear that Komarov was perfectly fit to fly, and there were only three or four hours remaining until lift—off time, but he suddenly burst out and started demanding this and that. It was a sudden caprice.” Golovanov did not realize that this was DOI random misbehaviour. Russayev and others insist that Gagarin was trying to elbow his way onto the flight in order to save Komarov from almost certain death. The problem with Golovanov’s version is that Komarov was not supposed to wear a spacesuit for this mission; therefore his backup, Gagarin, would not have been assigned a suit, either. The front module of the Soyuz incorporated airtight hatches at each end, allowing the module to serve as an airlock. The spacewalkers from the second Soyuz needed their suits, but Komarov did not. In which case, why did Gagarin demand to be dressed in a suit? A more realistic explanation is that he wanted Komarov to wear the spacesuit in order to give him an extra safety margin. This is not as simple as it sounds; spacesuits are so much an integral part of a capsule’s system that they cannot always be worn with the simplicity of an overcoat, but have to be plugged in to other life-support machinery. Another possibility is that Gagarin was trying to disrupt the preparations somehow, but without any clear plan of action. Whatever happened in the suiting-up room that morning, the archive pre-launch footage shows an unhappy Komarov, a downcast Gagarin and some very subdued Technicians. Komarov encountered problems almost as soon as he had achieved orbit. One of the two solar-power vanes on the rear equipment module refused to deploy (yet another mechanical problem) and his guidance computers ran short of power. Launch of the second Soyuz, crewed by Yeliseyev, Khrunov and Bykovsky, was cancelled while ground controllers worked on Komarov’s power deficit, although by some accounts Vasily Mishin held off cancelling the second launch for as long as he could. After eighteen orbits (twenty-six hours), Komarov’s problems had not been resolved, and the mission directors decided to terminate the mission altogether during the next orbit. Komarov had great difficulty lining up his capsule for re-entry and complained, ‘This devil ship! Nothing I lay my hands on works properly} Unlike the old Vostok ball, the Soyuz capsule had a distinctly flattened underside to give it some aerodynamic lift in the atmosphere, rather like an Apollo module. The drawback was that it had to be aimed much more accurately than Vostok. With his guidance systems almost entirely off-line, Komarov could not keep his ship at a stable angle, and when it began to spin, he fired his attitude control jets to try and bring it back in hand. Unfortunately the OKB-1 designers had put the thrusters too close alongside the star tracker navigation sensors, and the delicate lenses could no longer tell stars from random reflections. Passing over the night side of earth, and searching for a more obvious reference target for his blurred instruments, Komarov had to use the moon in a desperate attempt to work out his alignment. Rumours about the dialogue between Komarov and ground control have circulated for many years, based on reports from American National Security Agency (NSA) staff monitoring the radio signals from a USAF facility near Istanbul. In August 1972 a former NSA analyst, interviewed under the name ‘Winslow Peck’ (real name Perry Fellwock), gave a very moving account of the interception: They knew they had problems for about two hours before Komarov died, and were fighting to correct them. We taped [the dialogue] and listened to it a couple of times afterwards. Kosygin called Komarov personally. They had a video-phone conversation, and Kosygin was crying. He told him he was a hero . . . The guy’s wife got on too, and they talked for a while. He told her how to handle their affairs, and what to do with the kids. It was pretty awful. Towards the last few minutes, he was falling apart . . . The strange thing is, we were all pretty bummed—out by the whole thing. In a lot of ways, having the sort of job we did humanizes the Russians. You study them so much, and listen to them for so many hours, that pretty soon you come to know them better than your own people? As he began his descent into the atmosphere, Komarov knew he was in terrible trouble. The radio outposts in Turkey intercepted his cries of rage and frustration as he plunged to his death, cursing for ever the people who had put him inside a botched spaceship — although his ‘final screams’, mentioned later in Fellwock’s account, may be an exaggeration. Korolev’s inadvertent prophesy about ‘flying under rags’ was fulfilled when the parachutes did not deploy properly. A small drogue canopy came out, but failed to pull the bigger canopy from its storage bay — yet another serious design flaw. A back—up parachute was released, only to become entangled with the first drogue. There was nothing to slow the capsule’s fall, and Komarov slammed onto the steppe near Orenburg with all the force of an unrestrained 2.8-ton meteorite. The capsule was utterly flattened, and the buffer retro-rockets in its base blew up on impact, burning what little wreckage was left. Recovery troops picked up handfuls of soil to try and dampen the flames. Their radio messages back to base were garbled and distressed: something about the cosmonaut ‘requiring urgent medical attention’. It seems unlikely that any recognizable portion of Komarov’s body would have survived intact, although Russayev says that a heel bone was found among the ashes. This was the first Soviet fatality during an actual space flight, and it came as an immense shock; nor could the basic truth of the disaster be discreetly hidden from the outside world (although the


Venyamin Russayev – the failed savior
Doran and Bizony 98’ (Jamie Doran of Atlantic Celtic Films is an award winning documentary producer and has one multiple awards. Piers Bizony is author of multiple award winning books and documentaries on space exploration. “Starman” Chapter 11)
‘Komarov invited me and my wife to visit his family,’ says `Russayev. ‘Afterwards, as he was seeing us off, he said straight out, "I’m not going to make it back from this flight. " As I knew the state of affairs, I asked him, "If you’re so convinced you’re going to die, then why d0n’t you refuse the mission?" He answered, "If I don’t make this flight, they’ll send the back-up pilot instead. That’s Yura, and he’ll die instead of me. We’ve got to take care of him." . . . Komarov said he knew what he was talking about, and he burst into such bitter tears. Of course he kept his emotions in check in front of his wife, but when we were alone for a moment he collapsed completely.’ Russayev could not be of much help on his own. Back at his desk in the Lubyanka the next morning, after a sleepless night, he decided to ask advice from one of his KGB seniors, Major- General Konstantin Makharov, a man he respected. ‘Makharov’s department dealt with space issues in relation to personnel. He used to work very closely with Korolev, but he was gone, and [his successor] Mishin wasn’t the same kind of man. The guys in my department also contributed to this work, but Mishin was impossible to deal with, particularly when firm decisions were required, He always needed a lot of guidance . . . I went to Makharov’s office and told him there was a serious problem with the rocket. He listened to me very carefully, and then he said, "I’m going to do something. In the meantime don’t leave your desk today. Not even for one second," I kept my promise, and I’d only been back at my desk for a short while when he sent for me again. He gave me a letter, prepared by a team mobilized by Yuri Gagarin. Most of the cosmonauts took part in the research. Makharov told me to take the letter upstairs and see Ivan Fadyekin, Head of Department Three} This ‘letter’ consisted of a covering note, along with the ten- page document describing all 203 problems in the Soyuz hardware. Russayev insists, ‘I didn’t read it. I simply didn’t have the time.’ just as likely, his instincts as a KGB man warned him that sneaking a look at the document might be very dangerous for him. As soon as he saw it, Fadyekin decided the same thing and dodged the responsibility straight away. ‘I don’t have the expertise for this.’ He redirected Russayev to a much more dangerous man in the Lubyanka: Georgi Tsinev. Tsinev was a close personal friend of Leonid Brezhnev; in fact, he was related by marriage, and they had fought alongside each other in the war. If anyone could deliver an important message straight into the hands of the First Secretary, Tsinev could. Unfortunately for Russayev, things were not quite that simple. Tsinev was rising fast within the KGB, helped along by hispowerful patron in the Kremlin. He was not going to allow any irritations to disturb that cosy relationship. ‘While reading the letter, Tsinev looked at me, gauging my reactions to see if I’d read it or not,’ Russayev explains. He had the inescapable feeling that Tsinev already knew the document thoroughly and was not remotely interested in its technical details. ‘He was glaring at me very intently, watching me like a hawk, and suddenly he asked, "How would you like a promotion up to my department?" He even offered me a better office} Russayev was now in great danger. Tsinev was trying to buy him off with a promotion, at the same time as placing him in a department where he could be more closely monitored. If Russayev accepted the deal, he would lose any chance of helping Komarov and Gagarin’s cause. On the other hand, if he rejected Tsinev’s offer, the consequences did not bear thinking about. ‘It was all part of the game, I suppose. I was very angry, but I couldn’t let it show. I declined Tsinev’s offer very carefully, explaining that I wasn’t really qualified for the work in his department.’ Tsinev kept hold of the document and it was never seen again. Within weeks, Fadyekin was transferred to a junior consular office in Iran, merely for the crime of glancing through it. Makharov was fired immediately, without a pension, and Tsinev took over as chief of an entire counter•intelligence department. Russayev was stripped of any responsibility for space affairs, and transferred to an insignificant staff training department outside Moscow, well away from the Lubyanka. ‘I kept my head down like a hermit for the next ten years,’ he says.

The corruption of space even affects those willing to save us from it – This view of space as an object to be explored merely for glory has not changed. Until it does, we can never learn from space as the affirmative suggests. Vladimir Komarov’s death was not the end of this story; Political corruption continued culminating in Gagarin falling from God to outcast.
Doran and Bizony 98’ (Jamie Doran of Atlantic Celtic Films is an award winning documentary producer and has one multiple awards. Piers Bizony is author of multiple award winning books and documentaries on space exploration. “Starman” Chapter 11)
Soviet authorities admitted only to an unfortunate parachute failure, and not to a series of design and preparation flaws dating from long before the ship took off), This time it was NASA’s turn to send letters of condolence, Both sides in the superpower divide had learned that the space environment showed no concern for nationalities or flags, but treated all trespassers — Russian and American alike — to the same set of risks. Three weeks after Komarov’s death, Gagarin met Russayev at his family apartment, but refused to speak in any of the rooms because he was worried about bugs — listening devices buried in the walls or hidden in light fittings and telephones. The lifts and lobby areas were not safe either, so the two men trudged up and down the apartment block’s echoing stairwells and along the corridors. Anything to keep moving and confuse the eavesdroppers. The Gagarin of 1967 was very different from the optimistic and carefree young man of 1961. Komarov’s death had placed an enormous burden of guilt on his shoulders. ‘He told me the story about the huge research effort undertaken to try and prevent the flight,” says Russayev. ‘He said the results were supposed to have been reported to the Main Man [Brezhnev]. He explained how they’d thought of me as an envoy in charge of getting the letter to the relevant offices. I told Yuri how I’d worked on it, and every- thing that had happened . . . He warned me, "Walls have ears." It was Yuri’s idea to avoid the lifts. Somebody must have told him my apartment was bugged . . . I found out for sure when my wife woke me up at three in the morning, and we both heard a rustling behind the ventilation grille where they were installing the bug. The thought of it made me furious. How could they bug one of their own agents? I suppose that’s the essence of Soviet life. There were always so many bugs around.’ At one point Gagarin said, ‘I must go to see the Main Man personally. Will he see me, d’you think? Russayev says, ‘I was amazed he could ask me this. I said, “But Yuri, you’re the one who’s always standing next to him on the Mausoleum. You’re always chatting together, and now you’re asking me if I can tell you whether or not he’ll see you? I haven’t even shaken the guy’s hand." "‘Yes, but I never talk seriously with him. All he ever wants to do is hear dirty stories and jokes from all my foreign trips."’ Gagarin was profoundly depressed that he hadn’t been able to talk properly to Brezhnev and persuade him to cancel Komarov’s launch. As Russayev explains today, ‘Relations between Khrushchev and Gagarin were absolutely excellent, but with Brezhnev it wasn’t so good. If people don’t want you, it can be hard to get through.’ Shortly before Gagarin left, the bitterness and intensity of his anger became obvious. ‘I’ll get through to him [Brezhnev] somehow, and if I ever find out he knew about the situation and still let everything happen, then I know exactly what I’m going to d0.’ Russayev goes on, ‘I don’t know exactly what Yuri had in mind. Maybe a good punch in the face} Russayev warned Gagarin to be cautious as far as Brezhnev was concerned. ‘I told him, "Talk to me first before you do anything, and I’ll try to advise you. I warn you, be very careful." But I wasn’t in the space department any more. I wasn’t even in Moscow, so there wasn’t much I could do. I don’t know if Yuri ever got to see Brezhnev, and I’ve felt guilty ever since that I couldn’t stay with Yuri to guide him.’ One story has it that Gagarin caught up with Brezhnev eventually and threw a drink in his face. Although Gagarin grieved for Komarov, who had always been one of the ablest and most likeable cosmonauts, he remained as determined as ever to fly, and was extremely disappointed when his superiors decided to ground him from further rocket flights. Alexei Leonov explains, ‘After Komarov, the State Committee decided it wasn’t possible to fly Yura, because all the problems with the Soyuz had to be corrected, and it was going to take two years to redesign the vehicle.’ It was not just the slippage in the launch schedule, but renewed nervousness at the possibility of losing Gagarin to an accident, that contributed to his grounding — and there were certain military traditions to uphold. Sergei Belotserkovsky reluctantly agreed with the decision to ban the First Cosmonaut from further missions. Although he is well aware that Gagarin desperately wanted a moon flight, he says, ‘The main candidate [for a possible lunar attempt] was Andrian Nikolayev. Regarding Yura, Korolev told me shortly before his death that he probably shouldn’t fly any more. Yura was in a difficult situation, because he was Deputy Director of the Cosmonauts’ Training Centre, and the responsibilities of that job are clearly laid out — the control and training of other cosmonauts. It’s not usual for the chief of a training centre to make flights himself} Gagarin was very depressed by this decision, and wrote a letter to the State Committee in which he pleaded, ‘I can’t be prevented from flying. If I stop flying, I will have no moral rights to lead other people whose life and work are connected with flying.’ With the straight-talking wisdom of an honest working man, Gagarin’s favourite hairdresser Igor Khoklov says, ‘Yuri couldn’t live without flying. It was his whole life. A man can’t live without his trade. He can’t survive} When the redesigned Soyuz finally flew successfully for the first time, on October 26, 1968, Gagarin’s harshest critic, Georgi Beregovoi, was at the controls. The truth behind Komarov’s accident and Gagarin’s grounding is only now coming to light, but most Western analysts knew by now that something was wrong with the First Cosmonaut’s career. As long ago as 1982, in his ground-breaking book Red Star in Orbit, the American space writer James Oberg wrote: There was Yuri, transformed before his death at thirty—four from a personable, cocky jet pilot into a demi-god to be worshipped, emulated and protected from all risk and adventure, until his own attempts to break out from the protective walls around him went just a little too far.’ Gagarin diverted himself with more partying, prompting a disappointed Kamanin to note, ‘Since Komarov’s death, Gagarin has been dismissed from all space flights. He has undergone a new, more stormy process of personality disintegration} At the beginning of March 1968, the last month of Gagarin’s life, a comfortable accommodation centre for cosmonauts was at last completed in Star City. Alexei Leonov remembers some hard partying, perhaps triggered by the cosmonauts’ desire to block out the emotional horror of Komarov’s terrible death. ‘We probably met at Gagarin’s apartment more often than anybody else’s place. The traditions of hospitality were already established, from where we lived before, at Chkalovsky. There was this law— if you arrived late for a party you had to strip down to the waist and get into a bath of cold water and submerge your head. Even famous people had to go through this. The law was the law! Actually this was a tradition started by Yuri, and the point was that after a cold bath you were revived with a big jolt of vodka so as not to catch a cold. The trouble was, everybody started to turn up late to get their vodka. One distinguished guest was the architect Komarovsky, responsible for the tall tower at Moscow State University, where the first cosmonauts had been dropped down the lift—shaft back in 1960. He was welcomed with an ancient peasant gesture of hospitality, still observed by modern Russians, even those aboard the Mir space station: gifts of vital foodstuffs to protect the traveller against hunger. ‘We took Komarovsky up to the top floor, where there was some bread and salt and vodka,’ says Leonov. ‘Then from the eleventh floor down to the tenth, where there was more bread and salt and so on, all the way down through every floor. Komarovsky, and some other famous people, they said at the end of all this, "Well, we’ve seen many extraordinary things in our lives, but never so much bread and salt!" Anyway, that’s how we thanked the people who built our apartments.’ Certainly for Gagarin, these parties distracted him from his anxieties. Zoya recollects that when he was back home in Gzhatsk, his innermost fears occasionally surfaced; ‘Yes, it’s true, it was on December 5. He always came home at that time of year to see us, and to go hunting. Just as he was getting ready to leave, Mamma had some sort of anxiety, and I remember Yura saying, "Everybody in the world asks me for something. l’m always helping complete strangers, but you never ask anything of me. You never tell me what you need." Valya and the girls [Lena and Galya] were already waiting in the car, but I had the feeling Yura didn’t want to leave us. [Think he was worried about something}.


In place of the affirmative’s depiction of space as a glorious frontier to be explored without penalty…an affront to the truth of Komarov’s life and death - we ask you to bear witness to the human cost of space exploration. Komarov’s body confronts us with something that is totally unrecognizable as a human and yet reminds of the responsibility of being human. In this sense before we ever come to grips with an ethics of space travel we must first grapple with the dark underside of our corrupted space politics.
Oliver 2K
(Kelly is W. Alton Jones Professor of Philosophy at Vanderbilt University, “Beyond Recognition: Witnessing Ethics” Title: Philosophy Today. Volume: 44. Issue: 1. Publication Year: 2000. (questia)KV)
I have used Felman's and Laub's analysis of the Holocaust to call into question theories of subjectivity, like Honneth and Butler's, which insist that subjectivity is the result of subordination and hostile conflict. By thinking about an extreme situation of subordination and hostile conflict, I have tried to show that in this situation the very conditions for subjectivity are destroyed rather than created. Moreover, Felman's and Laub's analyses are useful in thinking through the implications of a dialogic notion of subjectivity. Subjectivity is produced through witnessing. This is to say, that addressability and response-ability are the conditions for subjectivity. The subject is the result of a response to an address from another and the possibility of addressing itself to another. This notion of subjectivity begins to go beyond the categories of subject, other, and object that work within scenarios of dominance and subordination. On the one hand, I have tried to challenge the Hegelian notion that subjectivity is the result of hostile conflict-Honneth's struggle for recognition or Butler's subordination that makes the subject's turn inward possible. On the other hand, I have tried to challenge notions of subjectivity based on a logic of exclusion-Butler's foreclosed object of desire or Kristeva's abject. Throughout this essay I have been concerned with the question: what of the subject position of the othered? Can we develop a theory of subjectivity by starting from the position of the othered? As we have seen, Felman's and Laub's analyses of testimony can provide a point of departure for theorizing othered subjectivity. Moreover, by taking the othered as a point of departure, we can at least begin to establish and reestablish the conditions of addressability and response-ability that make subjectivity and human experience possible. If recognition is necessary to subjectivity, it isn't the kind of recognition identified by Taylor through which we recognize others only when we have understood them and passed judgment on them. It is more than Honneth's conferring respect on others. And, it can't begin from Butler or Kristeva's logic of exclusion or repudiation. To recognize others requires acknowledging that their experiences are real even though they may be incomprehensible to us; this means we must recognize that not everything that is real is recognizable to us. Acknowledging the realness of another's life is not judging its worth, or conferring respecting, or understanding or recognizing it, but responding in a way that affirms response-ability or addressability. We are obligated to respond to what is beyond our comprehension, beyond recognition. Ethics is possible only beyond recognition.

Komarov’s story is one simply about humanity being silenced, and demoted to nothing more than a lump of coal…a fuel for a corrupt communist vision of spreading the Iron Curtain to the moon and well beyond. By enforcing an encounter with Komarov, we fracture the affirmative’s utopian vision stealing from the system of people they will use to achieve their own productive ends.
Oliver 2K (Kelly is W. Alton Jones Professor of Philosophy at Vanderbilt University , “Beyond Recognition: Witnessing Ethics” Title: Philosophy Today. Volume: 44. Issue: 1. Publication Year: 2000. (questia)KV)
As Felman points out, although there were eye-witnesses to the Holocaust, they could not really see what was going on. From the inside victims were not only empirically annihilated as witnesses--murdered-but also cognitively and perceptually destroyed as witnesses because they were turned into objects and dehumanized. As objects and the inhuman they are unable to speak. Moreover, to speak, to witness to their dehumanization is to repeat it by telling the world that they were reduced to worthless objects. From the outside, the Nazis made sure that the world did not see what was going on; they hid the death camps. And, those involved in the killings were ordered with the threat of death not to refer to the victims as victims or people or even corpses but to call them figuren or Schmattes, puppets or rags (Felman 1992, 210). Even those who saw could not see because it was impossible to grasp a world that was not a world, a world that was inhuman (Felman 1992 232), For some of the soldiers in the Allied Forces, seeing the concentration camps meant going blind; they literally lost their sight at the sight of the incomprehensible world of the Holocaust.
Felman asks, what would it mean to witness to the Holocaust? To witness from the inside, from the experience of the victims'? She argues that it would mean first bearing witness from inside the desire not to be inside (1992, 228). Also, it would mean testifying from inside the very binding of the secret that made victims feel like they were part of a secret world (229). It would mean testifying from the inside of a radical deception by which one was separated from the truth of history even as one was living it (229). Moreover, it would mean testifying from inside otherness, bearing "witness from inside the living pathos of a tongue which nonetheless is bound to be heard as noise" (231). Felman concludes that it is impossible to testify from inside. From the inside the possibility of address and an addressable other was eliminated. Yet, in order to re-establish subjectivity and in order to demand justice, it is necessary to bear witness to the inarticulate experience of the inside. This is not the finite task of comprehending it; this is the infinite task of encountering it (cf. Felman 1992, 268). Such an encounter necessarily takes us beyond recognition.

Our act of Bearing witness provides the only way that we can discover a truly correct ethical and political context to explore space. The only way for this to happen, is through the relationship between students and their educators, we must together find a new system of comprehending oppression – and thus together create an infinite responsibility to the Other.
Zembylas, Open University of Cyprus, 08(Michalinos, “Bearing Witness to the Ethics and Politics of Suffering: J. M. Coetzee’s Disgrace, Inconsolable Mourning, and the Task of Educators”, Studies in Philosophy and Education, Volume: 28, , 4-18, p. 223–237 CAF)
Disgrace, by South African writer J. M. Coetzee, is set in the post-apartheid setting, and was written during the highly mediatized proceedings of South Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Drawing on this story, I will discuss first how this novel constitutes a crucial site for bearing witness to the suffering engendered by apartheid through inventing new forms of mourning and community (Durrant 1999, 2004, 2005) that are not locked into historicism’s desire to hold on to the past. In the novels of J. M. Coetzee—and more so in Disgrace—one finds an overwhelming sense in the intensity of suffering by the way he stages his characters’ traumatic experiences, their encounters with others, and the ethical dilemmas they go through. As Durrant (2004) writes, Coetzee’s novels constitute acts of inconsolable mourning, that is, mourning with no closure in sight. I will argue, then, that it is precisely this form of mourning that provides the ethical and political context for educators to engage their students in alternative ways of relating both to otherness and history—not in the sense of re-covering history, re-presenting the Other’s suffering or even re-covering from history, but rather in the insistence on remaining inconsolable before history and the Other’s suffering. This essay, therefore, considers whether educators and their students need to (re)learn the limits of historicism in comprehending conflict, oppression, otherness and suffering, and examines the educational implications of such a pedagogical task. In particular, I am interested in the openings that are created by drawing on some of the ideas in Disgrace, as well as by troubling dominant notions about holding on to a fixed notion of the past rather a continuous engagement with suffering and loss. This refusal to treat history as an apriori system, explains Marais (2000a), is directly related to the concern with an otherness outside history; Thus a Levinasian ethics of infinite responsibility to others (e.g. Levinas 1969, 1985, 1987) that is projected through Disgrace, interrogates what it means to bear witness to otherness, and particularly to their trauma and suffering (see Tarc 2006).1 This is a provocative task, and requires that I first detail more fully how Coetzee’s novel invitesreaders into a learning engagement with inconsolable mourning.

The only vote in this round is a negative one, and only a negative one. To successfully complete this daunting task of space exploration, students must change the way we act in the classroom, and the debate round. Bearing witness allows us as students and educators to grapple with the way we feel about suffering. Bearing witness in the classroom is the only way to discover a system of ethics to explore space as the affirmative suggests. In learning about the responsibility to the other, students become responsible for each other as co-witnesses, thus countering inaction.
Zembylas, Open University of Cyprus, 08
(Michalinos, “Bearing Witness to the Ethics and Politics of Suffering: J. M. Coetzee’s Disgrace, Inconsolable Mourning, and the Task of Educators”, Studies in Philosophy and Education, Volume: 28, 4-18, p. 223–237 CAF)
To sum up, the task of creating pedagogical spaces for critical witnessing of suffering in the classroom needs to include two important components. Firstly, there is the need to develop reading practices that analyze and critique the ways in which bearing witness encourages feelings of connection and disconnection with representations of suffering. When examining narratives of injustices and traumas, educators and their students must grapple with the material, bodily affect of suffering. Secondly, it is important to take into account that witnessing in the classroom is collective, that is, a collectivised engagement in learning to see, feel, and act differently (Boler 1999; Zembylas 2008a). In learning about the responsibility to the Other, students become responsible for each other as co-witnesses, and the teacher is responsible for them. It is precisely in this manner that the classroom can become a potential place of political transformation. Despite inconsolable mourning, students and educators are not led to inaction, but rather become witnesses who work through their affective connections to the victims, themselves and their co-witnesses and find their grounding in solidarity.