[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Solar Flares== 

===1AC=== 

**__CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY__**

**Solar flares are inevitable in the next few years**
**__Butt__**, physicist in the High-Energy Astrophysics Division at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, **__2010__** (Yousaf M., “The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response,” February 1, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/1)
For the reasons…coupling to long-lines.

**The probability is 100%**
**__Sternstein__**, staff correspondent at //Nextgov//, **__2010__** (Aliya, “Agencies rush to replace aging satellite to predict damaging solar storms,” //Nextgov//, part of the National Journal Group Inc. and the Atlantic Media Company, August 9, http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20100809_7393.php)
Every 11 years…not that great."

**NASA’s Advanced Composition Explorer is past its life expectancy and will fail before the big one**
**__C__**oncept **__A__**ctivity **__R__**esearch **__V__**ault, **__2011__** (“Satellite Outages Now Critical Data Problem,” May 19, https://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/)
In 1997, NASA…calculated life expectance.

**ACE is //uniquely// key for early warning – it’s the only way to prevent blackouts**
**__Sternstein__**, staff correspondent at //Nextgov//, **__2010__** (Aliya, “Agencies rush to replace aging satellite to predict damaging solar storms,” //Nextgov//, part of the National Journal Group Inc. and the Atlantic Media Company, August 9, http://www.nextgov.com/nextgov/ng_20100809_7393.php)
To gauge the…very short window."

**Thankfully, the Deep Space Climate Observatory, or DSCOVR, has been tapped to replace ACE**
**__Clark, 2011__** (Stephen, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission,” //Spaceflight Now//, February 21, http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/)
The White House…activity on Earth.

**Funding for DSCOVR has been cut – this prevents the plan**
**__Brinton__**, staff writer for //Space News//, **__July 12__**, 2011 (Turner, “House Panel Denies Funding for Pair of NOAA Satellite Projects,” http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110718-house-panel-denies-funding-for-dscovr-cosmic-2-missions.html)
The U.S. House…jointly with Taiwan.

**Thus, the plan:**

**The United States federal government should fully fund the launch of the Deep Space Climate Observatory as a replacement for the Advanced Composition Explorer.**

**__ADVANTAGE ONE IS BLACKOUTS__**

**Solar flares will wipe out our electrical grid, causing catastrophic blackouts**
**__Brooks__**, English scientist and author, Ph.D. in Quantum Physics, **__2009__** (Michael, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe,” //New Scientist//, March 23, http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20127001.300-space-storm-alert-90-seconds-from-catastrophe.html?DCMP=OTC-rss&nsref=online-news)
Over the last…sophisticated technological regions.

**Even limited blackouts will spillover due to interdependency**
**__N__**ational **__R__**esearch **__C__**ouncil, **__2008__** (“Severe Space Weather Events—Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts,” Committee on the Societal and Economic Impacts of Severe Space Weather Events: A Workshop)
Caverly discussed how…down both locations.

**No quick fix – transformers take years to build**
**__Brooks__**, English scientist and author, Ph.D. in Quantum Physics, **__2009__** (Michael, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe,” //New Scientist//, March 23, http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20127001.300-space-storm-alert-90-seconds-from-catastrophe.html?DCMP=OTC-rss&nsref=online-news)
Back-up generators…up and running.

**The impact is millions of deaths within days and economic collapse**
**__Brooks__**, English scientist and author, Ph.D. in Quantum Physics, **__2009__** (Michael, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe,” //New Scientist//, March 23, http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20127001.300-space-storm-alert-90-seconds-from-catastrophe.html?DCMP=OTC-rss&nsref=online-news)
With no power…and balanced report."

**Blackouts collapse the global financial system**
**__Marusek__**, nuclear physicist and engineer, **__2007__** (James A., “Solar Storm Threat Analysis,” //Impact//, http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf)
A major electrical…transmitting financial data.

**Blackouts will crash the stock market**
**__Virk, 2011__** (Jaspreet, “2013 solar storms may destroy Earth’s satellite communications,” //The Money Times//, May 20, http://www.themoneytimes.com/featured/20110520/2013-solar-storms-may-destroy-earth039s-satellite-communications-id-101701710225.h)
Remember the powerful…stock market crash.

**This leads to economic depression**
**__Romer__**, Class of 1957 Garff B. Wilson Professor of Economics at the University of California, Berkeley and a former Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Obama administration, **__2003__** (Christina D., //Encyclopedia Brittanica//, December 20, http://elsa.berkeley.edu/~cromer/great_depression.pdf)
The stock market…to finance investment.

**The impact is extinction**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__Bearden__**, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army (retired), Director, Association of Distinguished American Scientists, **__2000__** (T.E., “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How We Can Solve It,” June 12, http://www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Bluntly, we foresee…for many decades.</span>
**Blackouts lead to meltdowns at nuclear reactors**
**__Earth Issues, 2011__** (“Experts: Move to protect nuke plants from solar flare damage,” March 5, http://www.earth-issues.com/2011/03/experts-move-to-protect-nuke-plants-from-solar-flare-damage/)
Nuclear power plants…$5 million each.

**There will be 30 Chernobyls in the US alone**
**__Popular Science, June 30__**, 2011 (Damon Tabor, “Are We Prepared for a Catastrophic Solar Storm?,” http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-05/are-we-prepared-catastrophic-solar-storm)
One of the…one to two years.

**The impact is hundreds of millions of deaths – this outweighs nuclear war**
**__Lendman__**, Research Associate of the Center for Research on Globalization, **__2011__** (Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” http://www.opednews.com/articles/Nuclear-Meltdown-in-Japan-by-Stephen-Lendman-110313-843.html)
Fukushima Daiichi "nuclear…will be jeopardized.

**Our impact is global**
**__Marusek__**, nuclear physicist and engineer, **__2007__** (James A., “Solar Storm Threat Analysis,” //Impact//, http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf)
There is a…come crashing down.

**__ADVANTAGE TWO IS SATELLITES__**

**The US has preeminent military power now**
**__Brooks__**, Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, **__and Wohlforth__**, Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, **__2008__** (Stephen and William, //World Out of Balance//, pg. 27-31)
Nothing has ever…cheap is astonishing.

**Solar flares knock out satellites**
**__Marusek__**, nuclear physicist and engineer, **__2007__** (James A., “Solar Storm Threat Analysis,” //Impact//, http://www.breadandbutterscience.com/SSTA.pdf)
In the past…can be fatal.

**Only DSCOVR can allow satellites to be powered down**
**__Turner__**, correspondent for //The Christian Science Monitor//, **__2009__** (James, “Solar storms ahead: Is Earth prepared?,” //The Christian Science Monitor//, May 5, http://www.csmonitor.com/Innovation/Tech/2009/0505/solar-storms-ahead-is-earth-prepared)
Part of the…nascent at best.

**GPS satellites are key to military power projection**
**__Military Hub, 2010__** (“Military GPS Illustrates Military Technology Dependency,” July 26, http://www.militaryhub.com/article.cfm?id=210)
What would happen…Iraq and Afghanistan.

**US hegemony solves every impact**
**__Thayer__**, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, **__2006__** (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” //The National Interest//, December, Lexis)
Throughout history, peace…the United States.

**Solar flares disrupt the DOD’s space situational awareness**
**__N__**ational **__R__**esearch **__C__**ouncil, 20**__08__** (“Severe Space Weather Events—Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts,” Committee on the Societal and Economic Impacts of Severe Space Weather Events: A Workshop)
U.S. presidential policy…close for comfort.

**Space situational awareness is key to space deterrence and first-strike capability**
**__Morgan__**, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, **__2010__** (Forrest E., “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment,” prepared for the US Air Force)
While many options…space deterrence regime.

**This solves global deterrence**
**__Morgan__**, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, **__2010__** (Forrest E., “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment,” prepared for the US Air Force)
Although this assessment…deterrence and stability.


**__ADVANTAGE THREE IS IRAN PROLIF__**

**The plan reduces military launch costs**
**__Aviation Week, 2011__** (Amy Butler, “USAF Test Launch Targets Broader Market,” May 13, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/awst/2011/05/09/AW_05_09_2011_p26-318881.xml)
The U.S. Air …variety of requirements.


**That’s key to intelligence gathering**
**__Space News, 2011__** (Peter B. de Selding, “U.S. Lawmakers Decry High Cost of Launching Spy Satellites Amid Funding Woes,” //Space News//, October 19, http://www.spacenews.com/military/111019-cost-launch-spy-sats.html
The top two.... national security satellites.

**That’s key to stop Iranian nuclearization**
**__Van Horen__**, et al, **__2011__** (Matthew, B.A. Economic and International Relations at the University of Queensland, Jacqueline Neumann, and Stephanie Scott, “U.S. Course of Action Towards Iran’s Nuclear Programme,” July 13, http://foreword.com.au/2011/07/u-s-course-of-action-towards-irans-nuclear-programme/)
A three-stage recommended course …and reliable intelligence.

**That leads to rapid proliferation and nuclear war**
**__Edelman__**, Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy from 2005-2009, et al, **__2011__** (Eric S; Andrew F. Krepinevich, Jr., President of the Center for
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; Evan Braden Montgomery, Research Fellow at the Center for
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran,” //Foreign Affairs//, January/February)
There is, however, at …regional nuclear war.




=Negative= 

==Topicality== 

==Disadvantages== 

===Politics - SKFTA=== 

**Uniqueness changes by the tournament.**

**NASA funding is unpopular – tight budgets**
**__<span style="color: #000000;">Pallante, 2011</span>__**<span style="color: #000000;"> (Mike, “NASA in Jeopardy: Has Presidential Policy Killed NASA?,” </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Currently limited…to be seen.</span>

**Political capital is key**
**__Wall Street Journal__**, 12/6/**__2010__** (“A Korea-U.S. Trade Deal, At Last,”
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704767804576000542290721476.html)
These caveats should…businesses and workers.

**SKFTA is key to global free trade**
**__Flake and Stangarone, 8/17__**/2011 (L. Gordon and Troy, “Why US Needs Korea Trade Deal,” //The Diplomat//, http://the-diplomat.com/2011/08/17/why-us-needs-korea-trade-deal/2/)
Now that the…global economic growth.

**We're on the brink of protectionism now - free trade prevents great power wars**
**__Panzner__**, faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorganChase, **__2008__** (Michael, //Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse//, revised and updated edition, pg. 136-138)
Continuing calls for…new world war.


===Spending=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">Economy on the brink – new spending crushes growth</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Rahn, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Richard, CATO Institute, PhD @ Colombia, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12785)JFS</span>
There is evidence…known as entitlements).

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The impact is extinction</span>**
<span class="cite">**__Bearden, 2000__** </span>(Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc)
Bluntly, we foresee…for many decades.


===Treasuries=== 

**The U.S. is moving towards fiscal sustainability – d ebt deal a step in the right direction**
**__Geithner__**, American economist and president and chief executive officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, **__8/3__** (Timothy, “Pro & Con: Debt-reduction deal good for the economy?”, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, http://www.ajc.com/opinion/pro-con-debt-reduction-1072624.html, LH)
YES: The spending…to fix it.

**Link based on the specific round.**

**Spending causes Chinese selloff of treasuries**
**__Buffalo News, 8/29__** (“Warning from China: Washington must act to restore confidence in the U.S. economy”, Buffalo News, http://www.buffalonews.com/editorial-page/buffalo-news-editorials/article537738.ece)
Let’s say you…serving the public.

**That collapses the value of the dollar and the global economy**
**__Delfeld, 2007__** (Carl, Chartwell Advisor, Forbes, October 10, 2007, http://www.forbes.com/2007/10/17/dollar-currency-feldstein-pf-etf-in_cd_1017etfbriefing_inl.html)
Here is my…the U.S. dollar.

**Economic downturn leads to extinction**
**__Bearden, 2000__** (Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc)
Bluntly, we foresee…for many decades.



==Counterplans== 

===Loan Guarantee CP (vs. SPS)=== 

**Loan guarantees solve - creates markets and interest**
**<span class="cite">__The Washington Post, 2008__</span>** (Ben, “An Energy Fix Written in the Stars”, The Washington Post, October 12, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/10/10/AR2008101002450.html]]</span>)
I admit, <span style="text-decoration: none;">solar…</span>dollars a year.


==Kritiks== 

===Heidegger=== 

**Space exploration and development attempts to master the Earth, eradicating otherness and reducing everything to standing reserve**
**__Thiele__**, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, **__1995__** (Leslie, //Timely Meditations: Martin Heidegger and Postmodern Politics//, pg. 201-203)
With everything…in the balance.

**The reduction of all things to standing reserve annihilates being itself – this not only outweighs their impacts, but ensures that nuclear destruction is inevitable**
**__<span style="color: #000000;">Caputo</span>__**<span style="color: #000000;">, Thomas J. Watson Professor of Humanities at Syracuse University, **__1993__** (John, //Demythologizing Heidegger//, pg. 136-141)</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">The essence of…authentic, ontological destruction. </span>

**Thus, when presented with the affirmative’s plan, our alternative is to do nothing.**

**Doing nothing in the face of the 1AC’s impacts creates a paradox that breaks open our technological thinking and presents us with new paths**
**__McWhorter__**, James Thomas Professor in Philosophy, Professor of Environmental Studies, and Professor of Women, Gender, and Sexualities Studies at the University of Richmond, **__1992__** (Ladelle, “Guilt as Management Technology: A Call to Heideggerian Reflection,” //Heidegger and the Earth//, pg. 8-9)
Heidegger’s work is…of being human.








[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]