[[toc]]
=Code of Conduct CP= 
==1NC== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space, including (insert specific weapons mentioned in the plan text or cross ex). The United States federal government should harden current space assets. The United States federal government should create enforcement mechanisms and transparency and verification measures for every country that agrees to the Code of Conduct.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Code of conduct solves conflict --- creates cooperation</span>**
Krepon 8<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael Krepon is the co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, writer/editor of 13 books and over 350 articles, MA from Johns Hopkins in International Studies, BA from Franklin and Marshall College, “SPACE AS A STRATEGIC ASSET TWILIGHT WAR: THE FOLLY OF U.S. SPACE DOMINANCE, AND THE POLITICS OF SPACE SECURITY: STRATEGIC RESTRAINT AND THE PURSUIT OF NATIONAL INTERESTS,” The Non-Proliferation Review, November 1, 2008, Vol. 15 No. 3, 549-554)</span>
Johnson-Freese …violate treaty provisions.

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Unilateral weaponization will cause arms races and nuclear war --- cooperation solves</span>**
Blank et al. 8<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Blank – Prof. at the US Army War College, Ethan Burger – adjunct prof at the Georgetown Law Center, Eugene Kolesnikov – Netherland Consultant, “Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: A New Arms Race?” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.russiaprofile.org/page.php?pageid=Experts'+Panel&articleid=a1221842130#1|http://www.russiaprofile.org/page.php?pageid=Experts'+Panel&articleid=a1221842130#1]]</span>)</span>
What is Russia’s …<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">to justify politically</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Hardening satellites is a better alternative to space weaponization - solves the threat of ASAT attacks</span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hui, 6</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Zhang, Research Associate @ the Project on Managing the Atom of the Belfer Center @ Harvard, “ Space Weaponization And Space Security: A Chinese Perspective ,” Spring, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wsichina.org/attach/CS2_3.pdf]]</span>)</span>
Some Measures … evade a hostile attack.21

=Tax Incentives CP= 
==SPS 1NC== 

**Counterplan solves SPS**
**SHSG, 2011**
[Solar High Study Group, a think tank dedicated to space based solar power, “Solar High: Energy for the 21st Century”, March, [[http://solarhigh.org/resources/16KwordBrief.pdf]],]

__Serious studies of ...__ __satellite development programs.__

=DTN Near Space CP= 
==**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1NC</span>**== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially decrease dependence on space assets in favor of near-space assets. The United States federal government should substantially increase delay tolerant networking on near space assets.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">That solves latency and bandwidth better</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tomme, 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Edward B., 1/2005, Airpower Research Institute, “The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space,” [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf]], mat)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sometimes </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">a smaller ... application are needed.</span>

=James Webb ILC CP - St Marks Doubles v. Woodward= 
==1NC== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its commitment to the International Linear Collider program and announce the United States’ strong intent to become the project’s host country.**
**The counterplan solves every internal link to competitiveness, the economy, and science diplomacy and spills over to every industry and university**
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro et al</span>__, Chair of the Committee on Elementary Particle Physics in the 21st Century, Former President of Princeton University, __<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">6</span>__ (Harold, “Revealing the Hidden Nature of Space and Time: Charting the Course for Elementary Particle Physics”, National Research Council, http://www.nap.edu/catalog/11641.html)
Finding 3: The ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> creation of knowledge</span>.

=Preemption PIK= 
==1NC== 
<span class="Underline">As a judge you must reject the preemptive, domination of space that doesn’t exist yet takes a privileged stance of neccisity that causes endless violence</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Goh 6</span>[Irving, Grad Student Cornell <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The right to ... out the prophylaxis.</span>
<span class="Underline">Preemption is a prophylaxis that eliminates the right to life</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Goh 6</span>[Irving, Grad Student Cornell <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The articulation of ...</span> resentment and hostility" [<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">[[http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.htm#ref|3]]</span>] (Kershaw, New York Times. 25 July 2005).


=Near Space CP= 
==1NC== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially decrease dependence on space assets in favor of near-space assets, starting with mission critical capabilities including but not limited to early warning satellites. The United States federal government should cancel Operationally Responsive Space.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">That solves vulnerability and prevents an arms race</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weston</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, Air Force Major, 9</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Scott A., 3/1/2009, Air and Space Power Journal, “Examining Space Warfare,” [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/weston.html]],)</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The main argument ... even security advantages</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.45</span>

==2NC Heg Turns== 
===**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bandwidth</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bandwith</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tomme, 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Edward B., 1/2005, Airpower Research Institute, “The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space,” [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf]], mat)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sometimes </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">a smaller... application are needed.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bandwidth is running out now- key to military hegemony</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Wired 3</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (1/31, Noah Shachtman, “Military Faces Bandwidth Crunch,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.wired.com/techbiz/it/news/2003/01/57420]]</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, da 5/6,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Think downloading a ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> the time available. </span>

===Asset Control=== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Asset Control</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tomme, 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Edward B., 1/2005, Airpower Research Institute, “The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space,” [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf]], )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For peacetime strategic ...effect on its head.</span>

=FSE CP= 

==1NC== 

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Free space electrons solve better—prefer out evidence because it’s comparative. These satellites would also be put in LEO while all SBSP and SPS are put in GEO</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thomas 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael E. Thomas, CEO, President, and Chairman of Colossal Storage Corporation, over 25 years in microelectronics, “Renewable - Free Energy for the World – Forever,” 7-21-2008)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">
</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wireless power transmission … energy output to Earth goes up dramatically. </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]