[[toc]]
Aff Cites: [[mailto:jhirshman4@gmail.com|jhirshman4@gmail.com]]
Neg Cites: [[mailto:derekkchoi@gmail.com|derekkchoi@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==1AC Greenhill== 
===1AC Inherency=== 

**Contention one is inherency —**

**Satellite-threatening space debris has reached a tipping point and is increasing exponentially — status quo measures fail**
**The Guardian 9/1/11 –** “Space junk rising exponentially” http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2011/sep/01/space-junk-rising-exponentially-earth
<span class="Underline">The amount of **junk in …** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">avoid something else," Kessler said.</span>

**Miniscule space debris short circuits satellites even without collisions**
**Natalie**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pusey, </span>**2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, [21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425] Spring, 2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space debris causes a variety of … </span>__obscure ground-based astronomical observation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**No disads - 30 new NASA projects were just funded including debris air guns**
**VOA 8/9/1 1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– “Visionary Ideas Could Transform Future NASA Missions” Lexis</span>
__NASA__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the U.S. space agency, </span>__has …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">them into a future space mission.</span>

**Plus, there is funding for tracking now and it will increase**
**Science Insider** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">2/14</span>**/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2011, Andrew Lawler and Sara Reardon, “Climate Science, Asteroid Detection Big Winners in NASA Budget”, [[http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/02/climate-science-asteroid-detection.html%29/DT|http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/02/climate-science-asteroid-detection.html)//DT]]</span>
__NASA will have to live … observations would quadruple to $20.4 million__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===1AC Economy=== 

**Contention two is the economy —**

**Global economic growth will slow but won’t hit outright recession now**
**Dadush, 8-11**-11 – Uri – Senior associate & Director @ Carnegie’s International Economics Program. “Averting Another Global Recession.” Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/08/11/averting-another-global-recession/4n1o#3|http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/08/11/averting-another-global-recession/4n1o#3]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why has the global economic … </span>__fall off the edge soon__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**There are three internal links**

**First is BANKING – Space debris knocks out satellites that are vital to banking and interrupts power grids**
Megan **Ansdell, ’10** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].
__There are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> currently </span>__hundreds of … interrupt electric power grids__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Logsdon 2001). </span>

**Banking is vital to growth – multiple experts conclude it’s reverse-causal and affects every sector**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pierre </span>**Monnin &**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Terhi </span>**Jokipii, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Swiss National Bank, Financial Market Analysis and Financial Stability analysts. “The Impact of Banking Sector Stability on the Real Economy,” June, [[http://www.ecb.int/events/conferences/shared/pdf/cfs/monnin.pdf?bb16a0e5bec85708efdb7ff480cd5a7f]], p. 3-4. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The increased incidence of banking … to further improve economic forecasts.</span>

**Second is GPS – GPS is key to heg, innovation, jobs, the economy, exports, and trade**
**Pham, 11** – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf)
__The commercial stakes are high__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. … (consumer oriented) or military users. </span>

**THIRD is the SPACE INDUSTRY –**

**One debris collision causes space operators to pull out of the market**
**Space Daily, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (August 31, 2009, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]], Space Daily)</span>
__Upper stages must vent tanks … even calculable.__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">This is scary!</span>

**The satellite industry is critical – it’s key to jobs and global commerce – blips will be felt globally**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fifty years after their introduction, </span>__… to reverberate throughout multiple nations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

**Global economic crisis creates several motives for global war – their defense doesn’t have nearly the same statistical support**
**Royal, ‘10**. Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215.
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>**

**Economic decline causes all conflicts to escalate – terrorism, proliferation, resource conflicts and nuclear wars**
**Harris and Burrows,’9****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Mathew = Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council and Jennifer = Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses … </span>__a more dog-eat-dog world.__

===<span class="Underline">1AC Hegemony</span>=== 

**Contention three is the hammer —**

**Space debris destroys critical space assets — that causes terrorism, challengers, and surprise WMD launches – intell, command and control, and battlefield planning are key**
**Imburgia, ‘11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Joseph, Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USAF. Joseph, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May. http%3A%2F%2Flaw.vanderbilt.edu%2Fpublications%2Fjournal-of-transnational-law%2Fdownload.aspx%3Fid%3D6574&rct=j&q=Space%20Debris%20and%20Its%20Threat%20to%20National%20Security%3A%20A%20Proposal%20for%20a%20Binding%20International%20Agreement%20to%20Clean%20Up%20the%20Junk&ei=ypRiTr3aB8uDtgfjxcn_CQ&usg=AFQjCNEglOEqH_3OfmcbgE6HXwiHKrBz8g&sig2=tGgUqSpEwkWUxmVNfAZ1Cg</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These gloomy prognostications about the … </span><span class="Underline">imperiled, if not </span>forever lost<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.172</span>

**Space assets are essential – American global power and nuclear deterrence disappears without them**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taylor </span>**Dinerman, 8-1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-11. “How the End of NASA Affects US National Security,” Hudson Institute, [[http://www.hudson-ny.org/2299/nasa-us-national-security]]. </span>
Space<span class="Underline"> exploration is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not only </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and prosperous </span><span class="Underline">will inevitably diminish</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Space assets are crucial to communications superiority**
Megan **Ansdell, ’10** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second major space-debris … </span><span class="Underline">**of its wartime communications**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cavossa 2006, 5).</span>

**That is particularly key**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
**<span class="Underline">U.S. News and World Report … </span>space assets is not optional<span class="Underline">.</span>**

**It’s reverse causal – the military would *collapse* without satellites**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** **–** Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">General Kevin P. </span>Chilton, Commander of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>crucial advantages<span class="Underline"> in the field</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”6</span>

**U.S. military superiority solves great power war obsolete – bipolarity is worse**
**Jervis, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Former Gov’t Prof @ Harvard & UCLA, “Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective,” March, World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009, pp.188-213, JSTOR. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the extreme, then, </span>__unipolarity …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">most be an enabling one.12</span>

**Heg is good**
**Kagan, ‘7** - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and … will provide an easier path.</span>

**The US will inevitably engaged globally — it’s a question of effectiveness**
**Shalmon** and Horowitz**, 9** (Dan,, Mike, Orbis, Spring)
__It is important to recognize …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">role in the global order.24 </span>

**Decline isn’t inevitable – America can achieve dominance if it maintains critical assets**
**Cox, 8-30**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Michael, Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, “America's future is secure: Professor Cox,” ABC, http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2011/s3306142.htm.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ALI MOORE: Let's look at … </span>of the American political order<span class="Underline">.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1AC Russia</span>=== 

**Contention four is Russia —**

**Space debris during times of tension causes accidental nuclear war with Russia**
**Lewis, ‘4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy [Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

**A miscalculation could occur in 15 minutes – most recent weapon status**
**Daily Hampshire Gazette**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**8/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [8/11, Get nuclear arsenals off high-alert status, http://www.gazettenet.com/2011/08/11/get-nuclear-arsenals-off-high-alert-status?SESS9838dbf966666b2b299abc9e8df1abee=gnews]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This past week marked the … destroy their targets 30 minutes later.</span>

**Independently, the event would inspire mistrust that escalates**
**Coffelt, ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Colonel @ US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate satellite systems … </span><span class="Underline">is already beginning to occur.</span>

**US-Russia war is the largest existential risk – those outweigh**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>**Bostrom, ‘2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy @ Oxford Unviersity, “Existential risk,” Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A much greater existential risk … </span><span class="Underline">much we discount future benefits</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [15,16]. </span>

**Even limited miscalculation causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ira </span>**Helfand**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, M.D., </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> John O. </span>**Pastore****,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> M.D., </span>**‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, [[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]].</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the end of the … their own by executive order.</span>

===1AC Plan Text=== 

**The United States federal government should deploy ground-based lasers to destroy space debris between 1 to 10 centimeters in diameter.**

===1AC Solvency=== 

**Contention five is solvency —**

**One laser facility solves all debris in three years**
**Economist, ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010 [[http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss]]) </span>
The real threat now comes … this size in three years<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**It’s feasible in the near-term and technology is constantly improving**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>Orion<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> study </span>concluded that … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">these to an international project.”184</span>**

**Small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Megan </span>**Ansdell, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]. </span>
**The most dangerous pieces of …** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">using relatively simple shielding (Wright 2007, 36). </span>

**Lasers aren’t weapons – it’d take them three months to knock out a single mid-sized satellite and operating tactics solve**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. </span>NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ground-based lasers (</span><span class="Underline">GBL) have</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>procedures<span class="Underline"> at the device location. </span>

=Negative= 

==SPS Neg== 

===T--Exclude Satellites=== 

**The aff’s __not topical__ – exploration excludes Satellites in Earth’s orbit**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Curtis 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Jeremy, Head of Education – UK Space Agency, et al., “Space Exploration Review”, British National Space Centre, December, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lpi.usra.edu/lunar/strategies/UKSpaceExporationReview2009.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)\</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.4 What is space exploration? </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…on the Moon or Near Earth Objects.</span>

===Politics=== 

**SPS requires tons of political capital**
**David 8** (Leonard, Research Associate – Secure World Foundation and Senior Space Writer – Space.com, “Space-Based Solar Power - Harvesting Energy from Space”, CleanTech, 5-15, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.azocleantech.com/article.aspx?%20ArticleId=69|http://www.azocleantech.com/article.aspx? ArticleId=69]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Based Solar Power: Science …</span> will to go forward<span class="Underline"> with this,"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Teets said.</span>

===Microwaves DA=== 

**Microwave spectrum is finite – increasing SPS crowds out radio astronomy**
**Hoffert and Potter 97** – Ph.D., astronautics, The Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, M.A., liberal studies, sociology, and economics at the New school for Social Research in Michigan, professor of physics at NYU, Potter has a B.A. and M.A. in Physics from Columbia University, Associate Technical Fellow at The Boeing Company (Martin and Seth, “Beam it Down: How the New Satellites Can Power the World,” October 1997, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/beam_it_down_how_the_new_satellites_can_power_the_world.shtml)
A big<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ger potential </span>problem is<span class="Underline"> …technology before it's born</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Radio astronomy is key to asteroid detection**
**Jones 08** – scientist, author, pilot, and former NASA astronaut, he holds a doctorate in planetary sciences, and in more than eleven years with NASA, flew on four space shuttle missions to Earth orbit
(Thomas, “Asteroid detection: Planning for the inevitable,” October, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At least we are looking: </span>New<span style="text-decoration: none;"> … </span>that numbers more than 5,000!

**Extinction**
**Matheny, 7** – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]])
Even if extinction events are improbable<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…we face and the costs of mitigating them.20</span>

===<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Warming Advantage CP</span>=== 

**The United States federal government should incentivize the development of reflective sheeting for deserts and oceans, increase usage of reflective sheeting, and offer other countries incentives to build reflective sheeting for deserts and oceans. The United States Federal Government should mandate and fund the mass commercialization of thermal depolymerization as a way to eliminate oil dependence, providing incentives, subsidies, and loans for the creation of up to 1000 TDP plants.**

**The CP decreases global heat by increasing Earth’s reflectivity**
**Science Daily** 12/23/0**8** [“Fix For Global Warming? Scientists Propose Covering Deserts With Reflective Sheeting,” 2008, http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2008/12/081222114546.htm]
__A radical plan to curb global …to increase the Earth's total heat reflectivity.__

**TDP can completely replace imported oil**
**Kantor**, technology writer, **2004** (Andrew, USA Today, 1/22/04, [[http://www.usatoday.com/tech/columnist/andrewkantor/2004-01-22-kantor_x.htm]])
At first, it was the oil angle … __our oil imports…and then some__.

**TDP is already commercially viable—one demonstration plant is producing 12 megawatts of power from oil a day**
**Kantor**, technology writer, **2004** (Andrew, USA Today, 1/22/04, [[http://www.usatoday.com/tech/columnist/andrewkantor/2004-01-22-kantor_x.htm]]**)**
The process is called //thermal depolymerization// … to Changing World's chairman and CEO, Brian Appel.

===<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Privatization CP</span>=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should create a government organization separate from NASA to manage space prizes and authorize that organization to fundraise. That organization should issue a substantial monetary prize for the first private company that develops and deploys Space Based Solar Power, provided that that company shares any new technology or data with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The United States federal government should give that organization operational authority over launches, space missions, and space-related patents but also mandate the ability for the military to utilize any technology that is developed. The United States federal government should remove any current regulations and not impose any new regulations on the private space industry.**

**The counterplan solves 100% of the aff — plus the perm fails**
**Sargeant, 8** (Benjamin, “The Use of Innovation Prizes by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration: An Analysis of Future Possibilities for Fostering Research and Development”, Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in the Committee on Science and Technology for the U.S. House of Representatives, 7/28/2008, http://www.tcc.virginia.edu/WashIntern/docs/papers/Sargeant_08_r.pdf)
__Taking into account the various benefits …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> use of innovation prizes by NASA has a bright future.</span>

===Capitalism Kritik=== 

**Space exploration is motivated by the desire to incorporate the cosmos into capitalism’s productive processes --- makes wars in outer space inevitable**
**Dickens** **10** (Peter, Professor of Sociology – University of Brighton and Cambridge, UK, “The Humanization of the Cosmos – To What End?”, Monthly Review, 62(6), November, 6-6, http://monthlyreview.org/archives/2010/volume-62-issue-06-november-2010)
__Instead of indulging in over-optimistic … attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”__

**Try or die cap necessitates extinction**
**Foster,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is editor of the independent **<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialism|socialist]]</span>** magazine Monthly Review and professor of sociology at the **<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Oregon|University of Oregon]]</span>** in **<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eugene,_Oregon|Eugene]]</span>**, </span>**09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Bellamy, March “A Failed System: The World Crisis of Capitalist Globalization and its Impact on China”, http://mlfonseca.files.wordpress.com/2009/04/a-failed-system.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Beyond a failed system As the foregoing indicates, </span>__… distinguishes the failed system of capitalism.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">59</span>

**The alternative is to vote negative to hollow out capitalism**
**Herod, 04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, noted freelance political writer of numerous books including Getting Free, http://jamesherod.info/?sec=book&id=1]</span>
__It is time to try to describe__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at first …</span> __shape of their social world.__


=2NRs= 
As we all know, Derek is very committed to wiki disclosure. Here are his past 2nrs:

Every Tournament before Blake: Aspec
Every Tournament after Blake: Ospec
Also, if the other team read conditionality bad at any point in the round, they went for condo good.

Make sure you cite request his condo good block.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]