[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Currently we lack essential capabilities for Operationally Responsive
Space (ORS) –more government commitment and resources are needed.
Sheridan 10- Lt Gen John T. Sheridan, BS, Mechanical Engineering, University of

Connecticut, commander of the Space and Missile Sys-tems Center and program
executive officer (Space), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), Los Angeles AFB,
May 2010, “Operationally Responsive Space and the National Security Space
Architecture,” High Frontier Journal, http://www.dtic.mil/cgibin/GetTRDoc?
AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

As we work toward… posture of the future.

====plan:==== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase
the development of Operationally Responsive Space capabilities,
including a military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on
demand, small satellite development, reconstitution, maneuverability,
and hardening of military satellites.

====Deterrence –==== 

Current vulnerabilities in US space assets invite attacks from multiple
adversaries—a broad deterrence strategy beyond the threat of retaliation
is necessary to defend against different military doctrines.
Rendleman 10 (James, Col in US Air force, Astropolitics 8(220), “A Strategy for Space

Assurance,” Ebsco, JT)

The 11 January 2007 test… and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.

Space attacks are inevitable in the status quo because of reliance on
space for terrestrial warfare.
Smith 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter

17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes
and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/
spacepower.pdf)

It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically… of war will either break its chains
all at once or stretch them slowly over time.21

40 countries are on the brink of space weapons – the US must act now to
guarantee safe access to space and prevent conflict.

Donahue 10 (Jack, Major in USAF, April, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED

FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-
fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/
display.aspx?rs=enginespage, accessed: 2 September 2011)

Currently, the configuration of global space technologies and assets is highly desirable from a US
perspective… satellites being rendered inoperative (space junk) and becoming potential hazards to other satellites.

Any attack would destroy power projection and global leadership.
Farfour and Yee 08 (George R. Farfour and Kenneth E. Yee, commander, 595th

Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development
Center, at Schriever AFB in Colorado and a National Defense Intelligence College and
operations officer, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space
Innovation and Development Center at Schriever AFB in Colorado. No Space Capabilities—
No Joint Fight, High Frontier Volume 4 Number. February 2008. Pages 38-39. http://
www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080226-050.pdf)

Taken together, a coordinated assault on ground and space based assets could
not… would make the terrorist attacks of 9/11 and their impacts look like a
speed bump by comparison.

Satellites are key to stopping proliferation, fighting terrorism, and
maintaining US national security.
Imburgia 11 (Joseph S., author in Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational

Law; “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a
Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk.” May 2011 http:/
/web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid=6e7410a9-26b2-454c-a808-
c656e99bad12%40sessionmgr15&vid=2&hid=15&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3
d S1H)

These gloomy prognostications about the threats to our space environment should be
troubling to Americans… shaping the choices of countries at strategic crossroads and
preventing hostile states and actors from acquiring or using WMD.”165

Space surveillance capabilities are necessary in order to solve terrorism
Discovery News 11 (Irene Klotz, Reporter, Discovery News, Mini Spy Satellites to Track

Terrorists, Discovery News, 6/7/11, http://news.discovery.com/space/cubesat-spy-satellites-
terrorists-110607.html, KR)

Keeping an eye on terrorists from space has… All objectives were achieved," Ticer wrote.

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction- escalation from nuclear tensions

Morgan 9 (Dennis Ray, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea, “World on fire:

two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human
race”, July 10, Futures 41 (2009) 683–693)-

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question “Is Nuclear War Inevitable??”
[10].4 In Section 1, Moore points out what most terrorists obviously already know about

the nuclear tensions between powerful countries… taking a savage toll upon the

environment and fragile ecosphere as well

Specifically, China is preparing to attack US space assets to limit US
warfighting capability – current ORS capabilities are too minimal to be a
credible deterrent.
Sejba 10- Lt Col Timothy A. Sejba, BS, Computer Engineering, Univer- sity of Minnesota-

Duluth, MBA, San Jose State University, congressional budget liaison officer, budget and
appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the
Air Force, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of
the Solution?” High Frontier Journal, pg 39-43, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?
AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space: Space shifting from enabler to
key battleground… amongst US leaders and lending cre- dence to the need for new
deterrence practices.

The PLA is more likely to initiate a space attack in a crisis because of
miscalculation and instability.
MacDonald 11 (Bruce, Sen Dir Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program@U.S.

Institute of Peace, May 11, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA,” Testimony
before congress, accessed: 5 September 2011, LexisNexis)

One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the result
of miscalculation… providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years

ahead.

Conflict causes a US-China nuclear war.
Forden 8 (Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming

Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/,)
The United States has five satellites in geostationary orbit… of the conflict into a nuclear war

without a clear military goal.

US/China war leads to extinction
Cheong 2k (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th,

Lexis)

a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war
between the US and China… foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we
would see the destruction of civilization.

THE high-intensity scenario postulates

ORS provides a credible deterrent and limits the result of any attack that
occurres.
Sejba 10 (Timothy, Secretary of the Air Force, May, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally

Responsive Space Part of the Solution?” High Frontier, 6(3), p. 39, accessed: 5 September
2011)

The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,”… ORS capabilities,
can effectively deny or greatly reduce the benefits they seek by attacking the
asymmetric advantages enabled by space.

And the deterrent ORS provides also prevents weaponization of space
Krepon et al, 11 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the

United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the
Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of
Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

Because the use of weapons in or from space can lead to the loss or impairment
of… while providing further support for our contention that dedicated ASAT tests and deployments are

both unwise and unnecessary.

With further investment technology for responsive space will be ready to use.

Felt 10-

Lt Col Eric J. Felt, PhD, Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,
University of California, Berkeley, commander of the Space Test Operations Squadron,
Space Test Group, Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB, New Mexico, May
2010, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the
Commons,” High Frontier Journal, pg 27-32, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?
AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
Technology advances making small satellites more militarily useful… then the
trend toward smaller responsive space systems will further accelerate.

====Contention 2 is Hegemony –==== 

First is surveillance:

Current SSA capabilities are inadequate because of old systems and
coverage gaps- ORS solves through joint operations.
Sejba 10- Lt Col Timothy A. Sejba, BS, Computer Engineering, Univer- sity of Minnesota-

Duluth, MBA, San Jose State University, congressional budget liaison officer, budget and
appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the

Air Force, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of
the Solution?” High Frontier Journal pg. 39-44 http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?
AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

One area of greatest concern to the US has been SSA. For years, service and
joint… resulting in a true on-orbit ORS Tier 1 capability

Information superiority in space is critical to sustaining hegemony.
Baines 5- Philip J, Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and

Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament
Research, March 21-22 2005, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer
Space” kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf

This leads to an argument that outer space is of the same order of strategic
importance… Any initial space-based weapon deployment will face off against an opposing
space-based weapon deployment

Space surveillance capabilities are necessary in order to solve terrorism
Discovery News 11 (Irene Klotz, Reporter, Discovery News, Mini Spy Satellites to Track

Terrorists, Discovery News,6/7/11, http://news.discovery.com/space/cubesat-spy-satellites-
terrorists-110607.html, KR)

Keeping an eye on terrorists from space has some distinct advantages over
ground- and air-based systems… All objectives were achieved," Ticer wrote

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction- escalation from nuclear tensions
Morgan 9 (Dennis Ray, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea, “World on

fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the
human race”, July 10, Futures 41 (2009) 683–693)-

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question “Is Nuclear War Inevitable??”

[10].4 In Section 1, Moore points out what most terrorists obviously already know about

the nuclear tensions between powerful countries… taking a savage toll upon the
environment and fragile ecosphere as well.

The impact is massive transition wars across the globe that leads to extinction

Brzezinski 5 (Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins

University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4)

History is a record of change, a reminder that nothing endures indefinitely…, but rather its ability to use
that power to enlist others in a common effort to shape a secure international environment.

American leadership solves nuclear wars in every region
Khalilzad 11- Zalmay Khalilzad, served as U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the

United Nations, now serves as a counselor to the Center for Strategic and International Studies,
February 8, 2011, “The Economy and National Security,” The National Review Online, http:

//www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=2//

//We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth…//

//the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and//
//aggression.//

//Vulnerabilities have put US hegemony on the brink – only ORS can sustain//
//space capabilities and reinvigorate heg//
//Sheridan 10 (John, commander of US Space and Missile Systems Center&exec officer,//

//May, “Operationally Responsive Space and the National Security Space Architecture,” High//
//Frontier, 6(3), p. 3, accessed: 3 September 2011, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?//
//AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, JT)//

//For nearly 60 years, the US has led the world in space systems… assets to provide//
//responsive capabilities at the operational and tactical levels//

//ORS won’t be weaponized//
//SpaceRef 8 (“Barack Obama: Advancing the Frontiers of Space Exploration”, 8/16, http://

www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=28880)

Keeping our space assets free of threats of disruption will be an Obama
priority… US systems more robust and less vulnerable is a way to invest in this capability.

====Framework==== 

Extinction precedes ontology- it’s a pre-requisite
Wapner 3 [Paul Wapner is associate professor and director of the Global Environmental Policy

Program at American University, DISSENT / Winter 2003]JFS

All attempts to listen to nature are, indeed, social constructions, except one… Eco-critics must be supporters, in some fashion, of
environmental preservation.

And, Krikik alternatives are hopeless utopianism without a grounding in
actual potential. Their arguments are epistemologically baseless and have
no chance of solvency.
Jones 99 [Richard, Security Strategy and Critical Theory, pg 77]

The work of the first generation of critical theorists does not offer much… be based on
practices that have some basis in prexisting behavior.

Even if our epistemology isn’t perfect its preferable to take action - the alt
is policy paralysis
Owen 2 (David, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium, 31(3), p. 655-7,

JT)

Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that…

IR exacerbating the first and second

dangers, and so a potentially vicious circle arises.

=Negative= 
Case Turns
Advantage CP's
Coop
What ever politics is unique
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]